
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 42, Issue 4, pages 305-418. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:42+issue:4+year:1946&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History
            NADINE K. FICHTER
            
            Following the decline of Robert Owen's experimental society at 
                        New Harmony
                    , the state of Indiana was void of organizations devoted to scientific study and
                    research. Several associations were attempted throughout the state, but their influence was entirely
                    local. None of them attained reputation, prominence, or accomplishment comparable to that of the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History, organized in 1881 by Amos W. Butler.
            The founding of the society was inspired by Rufus Haymond, the first productive zoologist in Indiana
                    after Thomas Say, "Father of American Zoology," who died at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1834.1 Haymond was born near Clarksburg, 
                        Virginia
                    , on June 5, 1805, and completed his training for the medical profession at the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Medical College. During the summer of 1826, the young doctor journeyed to 
                        Brookville
                     to visit a distant relative and decided to start his practice there. His motive for
                    staying is not easily understood since the settlement of 
                        Brookville
                     was suffering a severe economic depression at that time. The most probable explanation
                    is that he had a keen interest in nature and found the region an ideal locality for the exercise of
                    this interest.
            During the years of his residence at 
                        Brookville
                    , Haymond recorded his observations on nature in two publications. The first of these
                    was a treatise on ornithology, titled "Birds of Southeastern Indiana." It was
                    published in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                            Philadelphia
                        
                in 1856. The second was published in the First Annual Report of
                        the Geological Survey of Indiana in 1869, when Haymond was selected as assistant to Edward
                    T. Cox, State Geologist. Haymond 
                  
                     1 Will E. Edington, "There Were Giants in Those
                            Days," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1891-), XLIV (1935), 27; Barton 
                                Warren
                             Evermann, "A Century of Zoology in Indiana,
                            1816–1916," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of
                            Science. 1916 (1917), 189–224.
               
                     reported on the physical geography of Franklin County and
                    included a list of its mammals and birds.
            Haymond's publications were valuable, they brought him deserved attention as a scientist,
                    but his contribution as an inspiration to others of the community was of more lasting worth. That he
                    recognized the significance which his influence might have was indicated in the introduction of the
                    speech he presented before the 
                        Franklin
                     Lyceum at 
                        Brookville
                     about 1850. He said,
            
                    If I should be so fortunate in the remarks I shall make this evening as to persuade a single
                        individual among you to turn his attention to the study and investigation of natural history or
                        the operations of Nature displayed in her works which surround us at every step we take upon the
                        earth, I shall feel myself well repaid for the small amount of time and labor required in the
                        preparation of this address.2
               
                
            In fact, Haymond did inspire many. One of the persons most influenced by him was Amos W. Butler, born
                    at 
                        Brookville
                     on October 1, 1860. As a youth, 
                        Butler
                     became very much interested in nature and before he was sixteen, he was specializing in
                    zoology. He wrote many years later, "Books were scarce. I soon learned of the interest in
                    Natural History of Dr. Rufus Haymond. He was very helpful to me in acquiring a knowledge of the more
                    common animals."3 Further development of 
                        Butler
                    's scientific thinking was evolved through his formal educational training.
                    When he went to 
                        Brookville
                     College, he was a student of John P. D. John, who was a professor of mathematics. After
                    a year at 
                        Brookville
                     College, 
                        Butler
                     attended 
                        Hanover
                     College in southern Indiana and was a student of John W. Coulter, one of
                    Indiana's most prominent botanists. Finally, 
                        Butler
                     attended Indiana University, where he was a student of Daniel Kirkwood, distinguished
                    astronomer, and Richard Owen, noted naturalist and geologist. At Indiana University, however, 
                        Butler
                     became so obsessed with his study of birds that he neglected the classics and was
                    debarred from graduation.4
            
            
               
                  2 E. R. Quick, "Dr. Rufus Haymond," Bulletin of the 
                                Brookville
                             Society of Natural History, No. 3 (College Corner, 
                            Ohio
                        , 1888), 21–25.
               
                  3 Amos W. Butler, "Early History of the Indiana Academy of
                        Science," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, XXXIII
                        (1924), 14.
               
                  4 David Starr 
                            Jordan
                        , The Days of a Man (2 vols., Yonkers-on-Hudson, 
                            New York
                        , 1922), I, 240; Edington, "There Were Giants in Those Days," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, XLIV, 32–37; Marcus
                        Ward Lyon, Jr., "Amos William Butler," Proceedings of the Indiana
                            Academy of Science, XLVII (1938), 21–25; Barton 
                            Warren
                         Evermann, "Amos William Butler," The Audubon Year
                            Book, 1932 (n.p., n.d.), 5–19.
            
            
            When 
                        Butler
                     returned to 
                        Brookville
                    , he found a number of persons who shared his interests. Notable among these men was a
                    Presbyterian minister, David R. Moore, who was born at Rising Sun, Indiana, on January 9, 1850. He
                    graduated from Miami University in 1871, Lane Theological Seminary in 1875, and 
                        Princeton
                     Theological Seminary in 1878.5 Intensely alert toward all things
                    scientific, he stimulated others in that direction. To promote greater interest, he invited those
                    who wished to expand and exchange their information to meet at his home for informal discussions.
                    The group held occasional lectures in the Presbyterian church, and the attendance became so large
                    that Butler conceived the idea of a formal organization. After discussing the venture with Moore, 
                        Butler
                     and Moore suggested the plan to the group at one of the meetings. The proposal was met
                    with such enthusiasm that a special meeting was called on January 12, 1881, at Moore's
                    residence. At that meeting action was taken immediately to elect officers. Moore was elected
                    president, Charles F. Goodwin, a prominent young banker, vice-president, 
                        Butler
                    , secretary, Edgar R. Quick, editor of the 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat, correspondent, and John T. Rehme, treasurer. The new president
                    appointed a committee, consisting of 
                        Butler
                    , Frank Barton, and Quick, to draft a constitution.
            At the second meeting, which was held on January 21, 1881, the organization decided to call itself
                    the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History, and it adopted a constitution. It specified departments and
                    chose curators for each department. It decided to hold meetings every second Friday evening in the
                    society's room over Emerson B. Rockafellar's stove store. It established the
                    ideals of the society in the prospectus of its constitution, a portion of which is repeated here as
                    follows: 
                        Special features augur for the society a useful and brilliant future. The reputation of
                            certain persons of the past generation for original research and eminence in scientific
                            studies have already brought the name of 
                                Brookville
                             upon National Scientific records, and some members of the society have already
                            acquired notable records as collectors and students. The society will make the county a
                            study and will aim to such discoveries as will not only be pleasurable to its members but of
                            profit to the people of the county. It will seek also to establish a museum that will be a
                            practical exhibit of its work and a credit to 
                        
                           5 Amos W. Butler, "David R. Moore," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, XLII (1933),
                                    18–19.
                     
                             the county. It will gather together with the
                            Smithsonian Institution and other leading scientific societies of the country, and number
                            among its honorary members distinguished professors of science and instructors of Natural
                                History.6
                  
                    
            
            The society offered its services to the public and asked that it be made the depository for all
                    material which might be included in a museum to benefit the public. It also scheduled a number of
                    formal lectures. Among the prominent lecturers who addressed the group were David Starr 
                        Jordan
                    , professor of zoology at Indiana University, John M. Coulter. David Worth Dennis,
                    professor of biology at Earlham College, John P. D. John, who had become president of
                    Moore's Hill College, Barton W. Evermann, prominent naturalist, and Stanley Coulter,
                    botanist and conservationist.
            The society became extremely active. One year after its founding 
                        Butler
                     and Quick published several papers ill the Journal of the 
                            Cincinnati
                         Society of Natural History. Also in 1882 the society revised
                    Haymond's report of 1869 and published it in the Historical Atlas of 
                            Franklin County
                        
               . Quick, who had charge of preparing a list of mamals, was praised at the
                    conclusion of his list by the following statement: "Through Mr. Quick's
                    liberality, specimens have been placed in the museums of the Zoological Society of 
                        London
                    , the Royal Society of Berlin, and the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Society of Natural History."7 And in the same year the
                    entire society was encouraged by this comment: "The society has already accomplished much,
                    and bids fair to be one of the most successful in the West."8 Citizens
                    of 
                        Brookville
                     and its outlying regions co-operated particularly well in donating specimens to the
                    society, and its museum grew to sizable proportions. The 
                        Brookville
                     National Rank donated the parlor of the Walz mansion to the society for use as a museum
                    and meeting room.
            Quick published an account of the society's progress in his paper, the 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat, in March, 1883. He wrote, "On this second anniversary of
                    our birth, we congratulate ourselves and thank our friends that we have so far exceeded our highest
                    dreams and today stand without an equal in the 
                  
                     6 Constitution and By-Laws of the 
                                Brookville
                             Society of Natural History, from the scrapbook of George W. Homsher. The
                            scrapbook is now in the 
                                Brookville
                             Public Library, 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     7
                            Historical Atlas of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 9.
                  
                     8
                     Ibid., 97.
               
                     state of Indiana. Our collection has increased to thousands of
                    specimens and our library is now approaching its 1000th volume."9
            
            The society published its first bulletin in 1885. Its preface read as follows: 
                        The 
                                Brookville
                             Society of Natural History was organized in the month of February, 1881, and
                            one year from the date of its organization was incorporated under the laws of Indiana
                            …. What has been accomplished justifies the endeavors now made to issue a
                            Bulletin which shall proclaim the worth of the Society, and afford such a medium of literary
                            exchange as will bring it into relationship with scientists and scientific institutions all
                            over the world. As may be seen from the list herein published, all departments of study in
                            natural history are represented, and measures taken from the pursuit of research in all,
                            under the supervision of competent curators. The local field of the Society presents the
                            necessary material for each and every department to an extent in variety and abundance
                            exceeding any other portion of the state.10
                  
                    
            
            Long before 1885, however, 
                        Butler
                     began carrying on activities beyond the limits of the society. He attended the American
                    Association for the Advancement of Science in August, 1881, which met at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The program and the congeniality of the group left a deep impression on him. In the
                    following year, he attended the meeting held at Montreal where he increased his contacts and began
                    to visualize the possibility of a state organization. He started to correspond with all the
                    prominent scientists of the state in order to obtain their opinions of such an organization. From
                    most of these men he received approval and encouragement. Later, at the meeting of the American
                    Association for the Advancement of Science at 
                        Ann Arbor
                     in 1885, 
                        Butler
                     and other scientists from Indiana held a conference and determined that the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History, as the most active scientific society in the state, should
                    call a meeting and prepare a program for the purpose of organizing the state society. After he
                    returned to 
                  Brookville, Butler
                brought the matter before the 
                        Brookville
                     society, and a committee, consisting of 
                        Butler
                    , Moore, and s. P. Stoddard, was appointed to make all arrangements for a gathering of
                    the Indiana scientists.
            
               
                  9 E. R. Quick, "Scientific Notes," 
                            Brookville
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Franklin
                             Democrat, March 1, 1883.
               
                  10 "
                            Brookville
                         Society of Natural History," in the Bulletin of the 
                                Brookville
                             Society of Natural History, No. 1 (
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, 1885), preface.
            
            
            The meeting was held in the 
                        Marion
                     County Courthouse on December 29, 1885, with John P. D. John as temporary chairman. The
                    Forty persons in attendance adopted a permanent organization with a constitution and by-laws
                    an? elected as president David Starr 
                        Jordan
                    , president of Indian;; University. 
                        Butler
                    , Moore, Quick, and Stoddard, of the 
                        Brookville
                     society, became charter members of the new state organization, which was named the
                    Indiana Academy of Science. The academy held its first field meeting May 20–22, 1886, at, 
                        Brookville
                    , with the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History as its host, and they spent the first day among the hills
                    along the east fork of the Whitewater River. 
                        Butler
                     wrote 
                        In the deep water above the ford the members of the Academy went swimming. There, as Dr.
                            Dennis said, the members saw each other as they were, a thing they had never done before.
                            There 
                                Jordan
                             climbed a rock just below the surface of the water and formally christened the
                            Academy. "For," said he, "when the members of the Academy can all
                            go swimming together, it is bound to be a success."11
                  
                     Thus the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History performed the important function of being the direct
                    causative agent for the founding of the Indiana Academy of Science, which has become the largest
                    organization of its sort in the country.
            Meanwhile, the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History had published its second bulletin in 1886. The society,
                    however, lost two of the stimulants for the organization. They were Moore, who left 
                        Brookville
                     in 1886, and Haymond, who died on July 29, 1886. Gradually the fibers of the society
                    pulled apart. For five years it had been an extremely active and valuable organization, but it lost
                    impetus and distintegrated rather rapidly as more emphasis and attention were given to the broader
                    scope of the Indiana Academy of Science. Probably the main cause of its distintegration was that the
                    constitution stated that any person in 
                        Franklin County
                     was eligible to be a resident member of the organization; consequently, the society
                    gained members who were not scientifically trained. The third and last of the bulletins of the 
                        Brookville
                     Society of Natural History appeared in 1888. Within the following three years most of
                    the material in the museum was returned to the donors or dispersed in other ways. The last meeting
                    was held in 1890 or 1891 despite conscientious efforts for its revival.
            
               
                  11
                        
                            Butler
                        , "Early History of the Indiana Academy of Science," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, XXXIII, 15–18. There is an
                        Amos W. Butler Collection in the Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana. Editor.
            
         
         
         
            Fiscal Objection to Statehood in Indiana
            DONALD F. CARMONY
            
            Opposition to increased tax burdens was the principal objection to statehood when Indiana was
                    admitted to the Union in 1816.1 According to the Ordinance of 1787, which
                    although dealing specifically with the Northwest Territory served as the model for most subsequent
                    territorial governments, a new territory was launched as a first or nonrepresentative stage of
                    government without any popular voice in the selection of territorial officials.2
                    This level continued until an increased population made possible an advance to the second or
                    representative stage of government with a popularly elected House of Representatives.3 Statehood was the final step in the transition from territory to equal membership in the
                    Union. As the territorial frontier swept westward, the democratic impulse, especially strong in the
                    frontier area, soon made the process decidedly more democratic.4
            
            The Northwest Territory at first included all of the present states of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and the eastern half of 
                        Minnesota
                     and was governed as a non-representative territory from 1788 until 1798 when the area
                    entered the second or representative stage by proclamation 
                  
                     1 This conclusion was also reached by Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in Indiana (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, I, II, and XVII, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916, 1930), I, xvi: "Chief argument advanced in opposition
                            to the assumption of Statehood was the expense and the increased taxation."
                  
                     2 The 1787 Ordinance is in Francis N. Thorpe (comp.), The
                                Federal and State Constitutions … and Other Organic Laws …
                            (7. vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1909), II, 957–962; and also Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 26–33. Andrew C. McLaughlin, The Confederation and the Constitution, 178.1–1789 (American Nation
                                Series, 28 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1904–1925, edited by Albert B. Hart), X (1905), 120–122,
                            indicates that the Ordinance served as a model for other territories.
                  
                     3 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I,
                            29: "So soon as there shall be 5,000 free male inhabitants of full age in the
                            district, upon giving proof thereof to the governor, they shall receive authority, with time
                            and place, to elect representatives from their counties or townships to represent them in
                            the General Assembly. …" The act of 1800 establishing the Indiana
                            Territory, however, provided for transition to the second stage "whenever
                            satisfactory evidence shall be given to the Governor thereof that such is the wish of a
                            majority of the freeholders…." as stated in ibid., 42.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 48, 56–57, 38–59, 73–77; and Annals of Congress, 10 Cong., 1 Sess., 2834; 10 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            1821–1822; 11 Cong., 3 Sess., 1347–1348; 14 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            459–461, 1841–1844, for laws of Congress making the Indiana process
                            more democratic. Concerning other territories see Thorpe, The Federal and State
                                Constitutions, passim.
               
                     of Governor Arthur St. Clair.5 This change
                    added considerably to the cost of government, and very shortly inhabitants of the western region,
                    mainly French, sent memorials to Congress protesting the heavy territorial taxes arising from the
                        transition.6 They beseeched Congress to return them to the less expensive,
                    although nonrepresentative first stage, and their prayer was answered by the establishment of
                    Indiana Territory in 1800. The parent area west of a line beginning at the north bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     River opposite the mouth of the 
                        Kentucky
                    , thence to Fort Recovery and due north to 
                        Canada
                    , was included in the new territory.7 Indiana then comprised nearly
                    all of the present Indiana, the western half of 
                        Michigan
                    , all of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and the eastern half of 
                        Minnesota
                    .
            Four years later Indiana advanced to the representative level, with its added fiscal burdens, and
                    history repeated itself with the people in the regions of 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Kaskaskia
                     praying Congress for a return to the nonrepresentative stage by the creation of new
                        territories.8
                    
                        Michigan
                     was organized 
                  
                     5 Clarence E. Carter (comp. and ed.), The Territorial
                                Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1934-), The Territory Northwest of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1787–1803, III, 514–515, has a copy of the
                            proclamation. The boundaries of the Northwest Territory were set forth in the Ordinance of
                            1787.
                  
                     6 Concerning the increased cost see: Jacob Burnet, Notes
                                on the Early Settlement of the Northwest Territory (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1847), 301, 313; Clarence W. Alvord, The 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country, 1673–1818 (The Centennial History of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , I, 
                        Springfield,
                                    Illinois
                     , 1920),
                            406–407; William A. Rawles, Centralizing Tendencies in the
                                Administration of Indiana (
                                Columbia
                             University Studies in Political Science, XVII, No. 1, 
                                New York
                            , 1903), 250. For the tax laws involved see Theodore C. Pease (ed.), The Laws of the Northwest Territory, 1788–1800 (
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library Collections, XVII,
                                    
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1925), 467–478,
                            478–494. The memorials are in Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , III, 76–78 and VII, The Territory of Indiana,
                                1800–1810 (1939), 3–4.
                  
                     7 For the law creating the new territory see: 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, II, 58–59; Annals of
                                Congress, 6 Cong., 1 Sess., 1498–1500. For maps of territorial changes
                            of this period see George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries:
                                Territory, State and County Indiana Historical Collections, XIX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 137–147.
                  
                     8
                            Memorial of the Citizens and Inhabitants of the Indiana Territory, Praying for
                                the Interposition of Congress, to Relieve Them From Certain Embarrassments (
                                Washington
                             City, 1804); Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 227–231, 240–242, 140–145; Annals of Congress. 9 Cong., 1 Sess. 466–468: American State Papers: Documents, Legislative and Executive (38 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832–1861), Miscellaneous. XXXVII and XXXVIII
                            (1834), XXXVII, 922; Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 544–554.
               
                     as a separate territory in 1805, but the 
                        Illinois
                     petitioners had to wait until 1809 for their separation.9
            
            Indiana remained at the representative stage from late in 1804 until statehood was achieved in 1816,
                    during which period the total territorial expenditures averaged approximately ten thousand dollars
                        yearly.10 About two-thirds of this sum was paid from federal appropriations
                    leaving one-third payable from territorial revenues. While at the nonrepresentative level,
                    territorial costs had totaled about $5,700 annually with all but two hundred dollars
                    being provided from the federal treasury.11
            
            The meagerness of these totals, especially when the extent of the federal subsidy is considered, is
                    indicative of the fiscal atmosphere in which Indiana became a state. It was generally understood
                    that this federal support would be lost if territorial days were ended. while it was also recognized
                    that statehood would result in added costs. The ensuing discussion has several references to these
                    points of view. With this picture before us, the fiscal aspect of the statehood contest can be
                    observed more nearly from the contemporary perspective and the movement cannot be properly
                    understood in any other manner. Such objectivity is particularly hard to achieve in these days when
                    fiscal expenditures have towered skyward until millions and even billions are spent with less
                    caution and care than the founding fathers of Indiana spent thousands or even hundreds of
                        dollars.12
            
            By 1816, Indiana with a population of between seventy-five thousand and one hundred thousand was ripe
                    for state 
                  
                     9
                     
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, II, 309–310, 514–516.
                  
                     10 Donald E’. Carmony, "Indiana Territorial
                            Expenditures, 1800–1816," in the Indiana Maguzine of
                                History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1906-), XXXIX (1943), 261.
                  
                     11
                     Ibid., 244–246, 261–262.
                            Further details concerning territorial expenditures may be found in this article and in
                            Donald F. Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 1800–1826 (Ph.D. thesis, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1940), 1–56.
                  
                     12 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messayes and Letters of William
                                Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, VII and
                            IX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1922), I, 156–157, quoting Governor Harrison to the first
                            representative Assembly in 1805 urging "the strictest frugality and
                            economy" and advising that the government avoid drawing "from the people a
                            single cent that can be dispensed with …." For other territorial economy
                            see Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 1800–1826, pp. 104–107.
               
                     hood.13 Indian resistance had been crushed
                    during the War of 1812 and English influence around the Great Lakes had waned.14
                    Indiana was the first of six states to enter the Union in the half-dozen years beginning in 1816,
                    and the spirit of nationalism reached a new peak causing membership in the Union to be viewed with
                    patriotic pride.15
            
            The 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley was debtor to the Atlantic Seaboard and Europe, and its financial resources were
                    limited even more than many contemporaries realized, but that frontier spirit of optimism and
                    expansion which led to excessive land speculation and reckless ventures in banking and internal
                    improvements often produced rosy forecasts of future fiscal affairs. The failure of the First State
                    Rank of Indiana in the 1820's and the internal improvements debacle of the late thirties
                    and early forties are appropriate Indiana illustrations of this frontier tendericy.16 Some Indiana taxpayers, however, preferred a prolongation of the territorial status to
                    being "weaned" from the federal treasury but such raised their voices in vain.
            As early as 1811, serious consideration was given to the question of statehood when in December,
                    about one month after the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     (which may have been the immediate spur to action), the Indiana Assembly approved a
                        
                  
                     13 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                , The Territory of Indiana, 1810–1816, VIII (1939), 364; Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 1 Sess., 460; Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 68–69. These sources indicate a
                            total of nearly sixty-four thousand according to the territorial census of 1815, but there
                            was a considerable increase in population between the taking of this census and the formal
                            end of the territorial period on December 11, 1816.
                  
                     14 Frederic L. Paxson, History of the American Frontier,
                                1763–1793 (
                                Boston
                            , 1924), 178; Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., Fort
                            
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, 1924), I, 228–229; Dan E. Clark, The West in
                                American History (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 217.
                  
                     15 The other states were 
                        Illinois, Missouri, Alabama, Mississippi
                     , and 
                                Maine
                            . All "western" states except 
                                Maine
                             which was also a frontier area. See the quotation from the 
                                Lexington
                            , Indiana, Western Eagle, supported by footnote number. 26
                            following, for an example of the patriotic pride with which membership in the Union was
                            viewed.
                  
                     16 Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                            Indiana," Indiana Historical Society, Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895-), V (1915), 47–158. Also Logan Esarey, State Banking in Indiana, 1814–1873 (Indiana University Studies, No. 15, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1912), passim. The Journals of the House and Senate
                            for nearly any annual session of this period reflect this spirit in the messages of the
                            governor and various committee reports.
               
                     memorial seeking statehood.17 Two members
                    of the lower house expressed their disapproval saying: 
                        That the inhabitants of the said Territory suffer no evils under their present form of
                            government which would not be increased fourfold by an admission at this time into the union
                            as an Independent state inasmuch as the people are not sufficiently numerous for such a
                            state of things, having as appears by the late census but a few over Twenty four thousand
                            inhabitants
                        Secondly: The Treasury of the said Territory is at present in such a miserable state of
                            depression that Territorial paper is infinitely below par; and this too although the Tax on
                            Land has hitherto exceeded all example, and has in fact been higher than the people are
                            willing or can conveniently bear; and under a State Government our expenditures must be
                            increased fourfold.18
                  
                        Thirdly
                        Because under the existing Government of the Territory we enjoy nearly all the blessings and
                            benefits of a State Government without the fourth of its expense inasmuch as although our
                            executive possesses the sole power of appointment yet there is Scarce an instance of an
                            officer whose appointment is not left to the nomination of the people. Decr 13th 1811
                        (JAMES DILL Signed (PETER JONES19
                  
                    These two legislators objected to the increased taxation which would result from statehood,
                    especially when the alternative was a liberal territorial regime which was very inexpensive to
                    territorial taxpayers.
            The memorial contained no fiscal clauses but reference to the increased population which was expected
                    to follow statehood was probably linked with the hope of subsequently enjoying more favorable fiscal
                    conditions through diffusion of tax burdens. Emphasis was placed upon the need for emancipation from
                    the "Monarchal" form of territorial government, but it was a "principl,
                    not men or measures" from which they sought liberation.20
            
            
               
                  17 Journal of the House of Representatives of the Indiana Territory, 1811.
                        See under date of December 11. Typed copies of the available territorial journals are in
                        possession of the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
               
                  18 The annual tax on land during territorial days varied from about
                        one-fourth to one cent per acre. See Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 1800–1826, pp.
                        75–77. The source indicated contains citations to the tax laws.
               
                  19 The protest is in Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , VIII, 147–148.
               
                  20 The memorial is in ibid., 150–151; also in
                        Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker (eds.), The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            1809–1816 (Indiana Historical Collections, XX, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1934), 787–788.
            
            
            General Johnston, who voted for the petition, wrote Indiana citizens hazarding the opinion that
                    Congress would grant the prayer of the Assembly because of the reduction of congressional
                    expenditures which would flow therefrom.21 Johnston was, no doubt, referring to
                    the end of federal appropriations for certain territorial salaries and a contingent fund which would
                    cease with statehood. His prediction was inaccurate, however, a select committee of the lower house
                    of Congress, headed by Territorial Delegate Jonathan Jennings, reported a resolution favoring
                    statehood whenever the population reached thirty-five thousand as determined by a territorial
                        census.22
            
            The War Of 1812 apparently checked and delayed agitation for statehood. During the years 1812 and
                    1813, the thoughts and efforts of the people of Indiana were beamed on defense from the Indians and
                    their British allies, although by the end of 1814 the war clouds were dispersing and the immediate
                    future promised a considerable impetus to population and fiscal resources. The Assembly provided for
                    an 1815 territorial census to discover whether. the number of inhabitants totaled a minimum of sixty
                    thousand as required for statehood by the Ordinance of 1787.23 In the summer of
                    1814, Waller Taylor, in announcing himself a rival for Jenning's position in Congress,
                    rather gingerly advocated statehood: "as soon as the people shall think themselves able to
                    support it, however, I shall expect instructions, and those instructions, whatever they may be,
                    coming from a majority of the people, or from the Legislature, I shall punctually obey."24
            
            The 1815 census, taken by the tax listers or assessors, disclosed a population of nearly sixty-four
                        thousand.25 Newspapers within and without the territory viewed this count as
                    opening the way to immediate statehood. The Western Eagle, recipient of the public
                    printing patronage, proudly announced: 
                        another manly link is about to be added to the bright chain of our glorious republic in the
                            Territory of Indiana …. there is a charm, 
                        
                           21
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Indiana, Western Sun, December 28, 1811.
                        
                           22 For the committee report see Annuls of
                                        Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess, 1247; also in Kettleboruugh, Constitutional Making in Indiana, I, 66–67.
                        
                           23 Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                        1809–1816, pp. 585–588.
                        
                           24
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Indiana, Western Sun, June 23, 1812.
                        
                           25 See footnote 13 above.
                     
                             a political magic in the right of self government
                            … that attracts our citizens to an independent state government in preference to
                            a territorial establishment even partially at the expense of the Federal government.
                    The Eagle cited the rapid development of 
                        Ohio
                     in the preceding decade as ample illustration of the magic of statehood; here the flow
                    of population had been greater than that of the Greeks over the Mediterranean World.26
            
            On December 11, 1815, exactly one year before the formal admission of Indiana, the territorial house
                    again approved a memorial for statehood and soon concurred in changes which the Council made
                        therein.27 Jonathan Jennings, still territorial delegate and leader of the
                    statehood movement, presented this memorial to the lower house of Congress where it was referred to
                    a committee of which he was chairman. After some delay, perhaps arising partly from its association
                    with a similar act for 
                        Mississippi
                    , an Indiana Enabling Act was approved by President James Madison on April 19, 1816.28
            
            While this measure was pending at 
                        Washington
                    , Governor Thomas Posey, who had succeeded Harrison in 1813, wrote a personal letter to
                    Secretary of State 
                        Monroe
                     against statehood: 
                        Some of our Citizens are very restless to go into a State government. I wish the people were
                            well prepared for the measure, but I may say with propriety that at least two thirds, or
                            three fourths, are not able to contribute but very little, if any thing to the Support of a
                            State: and there is also a very great scarcety of talents, or men of such information as are
                            necessary to fill the respective Stations, & offices of government. No doubt you
                            have seen the memorial of the two Houses of our Legislature to Congress for the purpose of
                            going into a State Government. If Congress should be so benevolent as to grant all
                            ask'd 
                        
                           26
                                    
                                        Lexington
                                    , Indiana, Western Eagle, October 28, 1815; Niles’ Weekly Register (
                                        Baltimore
                                    , 1811–1837), VI (August 6, 1814), 394; ibid., IX (November 4, 1815), 171.
                        
                           27 Journal of the House of Representatives of the Indiana
                                    Territory, 1815. See under date of December 11 and 12. Typed copy in the possession
                                    of the Indiana Historical Bureau. The memorial is in Ewbank and Riker, The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809–1816, pp.
                                    811–814; 
                                        Lexington
                                    , Indians, Western Eagle. December 23, 1815; 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Indiana, Western Sun, January 27, 1816; Niles’ Weekly Register, IX, (January 20, 1816),
                                    352–353; Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana,
                                    I, 69–72.
                        
                           28 Concerning the passage of this act through Congress see Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 1 Sess., 408, 459–461,
                                    1293, 1300, 1367, 1373, 31, 255, 274, 282, 312, 315. For the Enabling Act see 
                              
                                            United States
                                         Statutes at Large, III, 289–291; 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Indiana, Western Sun, May 4, 3816; Kettleborough,
                                        Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 73–77.
                     
                             for, there would be no other difficulty except the want
                            of men of good informalion.29
                  
                    The governor stated that three years would be soon enough to make the proposed transition
                    and solicited the endorsement of Secretary 
                        Monroe
                     for another three-year term as governor! Posey, no doubt, realized that his tenure was
                    contingent on a prolongation of the territorial period and this perhaps fortified his position in
                    regard to statehood, while such leaders as Jennings, who would probably gain political advancement,
                    were inclined to soft-pedal the increased fiscal burdens which would result from statehood.30
            
            "A Farmer of 
                        Knox
                     County," more likely an associate of Governor Posey than a dirt farmer,
                    anticipated the adoption of the Ènabling Act and warned his fellow citizens: "A
                    state government! that would POW, and while the direct tax continues, cost us above thirty thousand
                    dollars, in addition to the enormous expences that must accumulate to support a great increase of
                        offices."31 Although "A Farmer" stressed the
                    political disadvantages of statehood, most of what he penned was a severe indictment of Jennings.
                    Later, "A Farmer of 
                        Knox
                     County," perhaps the same as above, charged Jennings with the responsibility
                    for the Enabling Act which he claimed was at the expense of and against the wishes of a large
                    majority in 
                        Knox
                     and adjoining counties.32 The statements of "A
                    Farmer" support the thesis that the fiscal argument was the principal objection to
                    statehood and their criticism of Jennings illustrates the importance attached to his leadership.
            On the eve of the constitutional convention, at Corydon, The Cornucopia of the West
                    wisely counseled that to assume the dignified position of a free and independent state would
                    "require the exercise of a degree of fortitude, wisdom and 
                  
                     29 Thomas Posey to James 
                        Monroe, Jeffersonville
                     ,
                            Indiana Territory, January 26, 1816, in Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VIII, 380. Also in Esarey, Messages and Letters of
                                William Henry Harrison, II, 715, with some variations.
                  
                     30 In 1816 Jennings was elected governor over Posey. The transition
                            from territory to state lowered the governor's salary from two thousand to one
                            thousand dollars annually. Previous discussion has indicated that during territorial days
                            such salaries were paid from the federal treasury, however, statehood transferred such
                            expense to the Indiana treasury.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, April 20, 1816.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., July 20, 1816. "Farmer" supported the election of
                            Posey as governor in the ensuing August election.
               
                     economy…." It was urged that taxes be
                    reduced and shackles be removed from industry.33 Contemporaries generally
                    consider taxes "too high," but present day Hoosiers may well wonder what shackles
                    then burdened industry. Apparently, the then odious excise taxes which the federal government had
                    reluctantly revived during the war of 1812 were the target of this criticism.34
            
            The most complete and best organized of the available statements against statehood came from the pen
                    of "Republican" who addressed his thoughtful remarks "To The Citizens of
                    Indiana." His identity is unknown but he was strongly opposed to Jennings.
                    "Republican's" appeal appeared in the Western Sun about
                    one week prior to the convening of the constitutional convention and may have been timed to
                    influence the delegates to decide against framing a constitution as the next step on the road to
                    statehood. "Republican" viewed the crisis as one which seldom occurred and
                    confined his argument largely to the fiscal issue, making no other objection to statehood.
            Although taxes in support of the territorial government were heavy, statehood would cause these
                    burdens to be doubled,35 while by remaining a territory money could be saved to
                    citizens where it was much needed in settling a new country. Indianans were urged to attend for a
                    while to "the opening, clearing, and cultivation of their farms, have a surplus produce for
                    market, invite emigrants, & then we shall be able to pay our state revenue without the
                    sheriff's taking our childrens bread." After such delay the people of Indiana
                    could enter the Union as wise men, but its immediate assumption would result in the tax exemption of
                    all lands sold by the federal government within Indiana for five years from the date of sale; make
                    the salaries of the governor, judges and secretary payable from state rather than federal revenues;
                    and result in additional expense because of more offices. If the territorial government were
                    retained, the expense and the 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Lexington
                            , Indiana, Cornucopia of the West, June 8, 1816.
                  
                     34 See Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VIII, 311–312, 377–379.
                  
                     35 This was an understatement. Moreover, statehood ended the federal
                            subsidy for salaries and certain other items. This made the increase to Indiana taxpayers
                            relatively much higher. See the closing paragraph of this article for summary concerning
                            expenditures during the first decade of statehood.
               
                     ability to pay taxes would gradually become proportionate to
                    that required to support a state establishment and pay revenue to the 
                        United States
                    .36 There is much to be said for the validity of
                    "Republican's" thesis, but fiscal policy of a government is not always in
                    accordance with valid theories and practices.
            On June 10, 1816, the constitutional convention convened at Corydon and next day voted 34 to 8 to
                    frame a constitution and the preponderance of this majority indicates much popular support for the
                    statehood movement.37 Jonathan Jennings was made chairman of the convention.38 Less than two weeks later the Western Sun quoted from a
                    letter received from Corydon: 
                        The Convention have determined by a majority of 33 to 8, to launch our political vessel of
                            state, and I am afraid without having a sufficient number of skillful navigators on board,
                            at least to manage the vessel in case of a storm.—But with such an overwhelming
                            majority in favor of a state government, the people must take it as a mad [man] takes his
                            wife, "for better or worse," &c. with but this exception, a
                            divorce cannot be obtained.39
                  
                    Within about three weeks the constitution was framed and during the next few months a state
                    government was organized,40" but. formal admission was delayed until
                    December 11 when President Madison approved a joint-resolution of Congress declaring Indiana a
                    member of the Union.41 The Hoosier state has never been without a sufficient
                    number of would-be navigators, but not all have been of equal skill as pilots of the ship of state!
            The average annual cost of state government during the first decade of statehood was approximately
                    twenty-five thousand dollors,42 yet this initial decade was a difficult period
                        
                  
                     36
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, June 1, 1816, in a supplement to the
                            regular issue.
                  
                     37 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I,
                            78–79.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., xvii.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, June 22, 1816.
                  
                     40 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I,
                            xvii-xxii. For another study of the constitution see Ruth E. Brayton, The Constitution of
                            1816 (A.M. Thesis, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1929); Esarey, History of Indiana, I,
                            252–254.
                  
                     41
                            Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 2 Sess., 1348; Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, 131–132.
                  
                     42 Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 1800–1826, Table IV,
                            between pages 155–156, has a summary of expenditures during the first decade of
                            statehood based on annual reports of the state treasurer.
               
                     with much deficit financing involving relatively large issues
                    of state treasury notes.43 By the mid 1820's, however, the depression
                    had lifted, population and resources were larger, the state debt was almost liquidated, and Indiana
                    was entering a decade in which the fiscal skies would generally be dear, and the state would
                    continue to grow in population and resources at an amazing rate. The fiscal objection to statehood
                    seems to have been largely forgotten as Indiana became proud of her place in the Union.
            
               
                  43
                        Ibid., 149–251. For laws authorizing treasury notes Laws of the State of Indiana, 1820–1821, pp. 40–44; ibid., 1821–1822, p. 108–110; ibid,
                            1822–182.3, pp. 38–40; Special Laws of the State of
                            Indiana, 1813–1824, pp. 91–95, see section 4, pp.
                        94–95. See also various reports and annual messages of the governors as found in
                        contemporary House and Senate Journals.
            
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            Nadine K. Fichter (Mrs. George S.), is a senior in the School of Education at Miami University,
                            
                  Oxford, Ohio
               .
            Donald F. Carmony is assistant professor of history at the Indiana University Extension Center, 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana.
            T. W. Records is a resident of 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana.
            Frederick Kuhns is a Congregational minister now living at 
                  Rochester, New York
               .
            Howard H. Peckman is the director of the Indiana Historical Bureau and secretary of the Indiana
                    Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Elfrieda Lang is the secretary and assistant to the editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            John C. Andressohn is associate professor of history at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Cedric Cummins is a member of the history department at the University of South Dakota, 
                        Vermillion
                    , South Dakota.
            Oscar O. Winther is assistant professor of history at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Flatboats
            T. W. RECORDS
            
            The 
                        Ohio
                     River, a great river flowing majestically between green, wooded hills, is known in
                    story and song as "The Beautiful 
                        Ohio
                    ." To those of us who have spent even a part of our lives on the 
                        Ohio
                     River, or who live in the great 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, the stream has woven a romantic spell which never dies.
            Associated with the story of the 
                        Ohio
                     River, its discovery in 1760, its development by traders, missionaries, frontiersmen,
                    early settlers, and finally the establishment of towns, cities, and states, is the growth of water
                    transportation, which is interesting and fascinating of itself. As a boy, I listened with wide eyes
                    to stories of Indians in canoes skimming swiftly and silently on the stream which had been taken up
                    by large and noisy steamboats with heavy cargoes of passengers and freight, or of the large war
                    canoes manned by twenty or thirty painted savages making a surprise attack on other tribes. Then, as
                    soon as the white man appeared, the Indians turned their cruel warfare against him, and many tales
                    were told of ambush, fighting, and massacres. The historic Pigeon Roost Massacre had occurred not
                    far away, while the ambush and slaying of Colonel Archibald Laughery and about one hundred officers
                    and men at the mouth of the stream, which now bears his name, was almost in sight of my birthplace,
                    and Laughery Island was less than two miles distant. I was thrilled by accounts of a few men who
                    escaped and who had nerve wracking experiences when Indians searched for them in thickets and hills.
                    One soldier, though severely injured, managed to swim to the 
                        Kentucky
                     side where he found a hiding place by squeezing into a crevice of Split Rock where he
                    lay for two or three days while Indians passed within a few yards of him, and he could see their
                    feet and legs when one or two remained absolutely still while the others noisily took their canoes
                    out on the river. They finally gave up and he escaped.
            My boyhood was spent on a farm below Rising Sun, Indiana, where my parents moved while I was quite
                    young. I always liked to watch the river and sometimes climbed a large sycamore tree on the
                    riverbank where I spent many pleasant hours watching boats pass or just watching the eddies in  the current and the driftwood as it floated slowly
                    along—seeing in boyish imagination the craft of years long gone, the canoes of bark or of
                    hollowed logs, and the boats of the early settlers and explorers. The white man had first come as
                    explorer and trader, then came settlers. There were no roads at first and the blazed trails were
                    often hard to follow, and much of the time they were impassable, so on this account and also the
                    dangers from wild beasts and savage Indians, the early travelers turned to the 
                        Ohio
                     River. One narrator said: 
                        The 
                                Ohio
                             River was the more available and the surest means of transportation, the other
                            being Shank's mare and lumbering oxen that drew ponderous wagons down the dimly lit
                            corridors of the teeming wilderness. The adventurous pioneers could not lose their way by
                            river. Their arrival at 
                                Cincinnati
                            , and all the numerous other settlements that had begun to dot the verdured
                            shores of the river, was inevitable. Of necessity it was a slow method of transportation,
                            but there was no impetuous hurry on the part of the future settlers to beat the clock, as,
                            mentally, they were resigned and easy-going and deliberate as the current which bore them
                            from the bustling port of 
                                Pittsburgh
                             into the empurpled mists of the beckoning Southwest.1
                  
                    
            
            Among the craft employed in 1800 were two contrasting types. One was called the keelboat while the
                    other was named the flatboat. Keelboats varied in size from small ones, five or six feet in width
                    and twenty to thirty feet long and with sharp bow and stern, to large ones up to 120 feet in length.
                    On the small keelboats there was a narrow running board on each side. These were used by the crew to
                    pole their boats upstream when they were unable to cordelle them. It required from six to ten men to
                    force the boat upstream. Half of the crew was on either side of the boat. Each man was given a long
                    pole. "They set their poles at the head of the boat, brought the end of the pole to their
                    shoulder, bent over, and walked on the running boards to the stern. At the captain's order
                    they returned quickly to the head for a new start."2 Such boats, under
                    favorable conditions, made the trip from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in sixty to ninety days, bringing cargoes of five or six tons. Larger keelboats were
                    constructed on the order of ocean craft and were built by trained shipbuilders. They were made with
                    a keel the entire 
                  
                     1 Frank Y. Grayson, Thrills of the Historic 
                                    Ohio
                                 River (n.p., n.d.), 17.
                  
                     2
                     Ibid., 5.
               
                     length of the hull which made them steady and easily steered,
                    and this gave them their name. Such boats were usually from sixty to ninety feet long and a few even
                    larger were built. Though narrow, these boats were quite commodious and could carry much freight as
                    well as a number of passengers, who rode very comfortably. These boats had oars and usually carried
                    removable running boards so that poles could be used if necessary. Poling was slow and required a
                    large crew. These large keelboats were expensive to build, expensive to operate, and by the ordinary
                    citizen regarded as aristocrat, which did not appeal to the hardy frontiersmen.
            Most pioneers had very little capital, but possessed ambition, industry and courage. They soon
                    developed a very simple craft which required neither skilled labor nor blue prints to construct. At
                    first log rafts were constructed, sometimes with small cabins to protect the travelers and their
                    household goods from the weather. Occasionally, in all emergency such a craft came apart. They then
                    devised a simple boat with square sides and a flat bottom, and they called it a flatboat. This plain
                    craft with the simple name became the boat cf the common people just as the early Ford car was known
                    much later as the car of the common folks. On small flatboats family groups or several families from
                    the same community came down the 
                        Ohio
                     River to settle, clear the land, build homes, and thus set up an inland empire. One
                    such boat is said to have had 105 people aboard, all members of the Anderson family, as told me by a
                    grandson, E. A. Anderson, now almost ninety years of age. He said that two boats came all the way
                    from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and landed at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana. The other boat had over seventy persons on it belonging to three families,
                    Matthew, Saultzman, and Wilson. There are many descendants of these families still living in 
                        Posey County
                    . The lives of these early settlers doubtless seemed commonplace to them, and few
                    pioneers realized the importance of their efforts. Yet, like the laborers on the temple at
                    Jerusalem, who were commended for their faithfulness and fidelity, so these pioneers were laying the
                    foundation of orderly government all through the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. Their work was vital.
            In a short time, land had been cleared and abundant crops raised so that larger markets were needed.
                    Learning that the people in the South raised only two or three crops, such  as cotton and sugar cane, and that they needed staple food crops for
                    their horses and cattle as well as for themselves, the enterprising folks along the 
                        Ohio
                     took advantage of the situation and began to build flatboats which were familiar to
                    them. Men with capital to invest had larger boats built and employed reliable and experienced men to
                    take them down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    , usually all the way down to 
                        New Orleans
                     where they disposed of their cargoes and then sold the boats.
            About the time the flatboating era began to develop another factor also entered the situation. A
                    steamboat came puffing and clanging down the river from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1811 where she had been built on the same plans as the "Clermont"
                    which Robert 
                        Fulton
                     had built on the Hudson River and which had been widely advertised as a success. The
                    story of the steamboat is quite fascinating in itself. Grayson in his Thrills of the
                        Historic 
                            Ohio
                         River has much valuable information about the 
                        Ohio
                     River boats of all kinds.
            Though the problem of propelling boats by "elastic vapor" had been pretty well
                    solved by Robert 
                        Fulton
                    , yet rivermen, especially polers and other crewmen, doubted that steamboats would be of
                    any practical use. They did not believe the steamboat could make the long trip upstream from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . "Steamboat? Humph!" they grunted. "When we see
                    one of the contraptions out there on the river we will believe it! When horses grow six legs then
                    only will we be convinced that a boat can be pushed through the waters by other than man
                        power."3 On the afternoon of October 27, 1811, when the "
                        New Orleans
                    ," as the first steamboat was named, came around the bend above 
                        Cincinnati
                     everyone who could do so came to the river to see her. She anchored in midstream and no
                    one could come within several yards of her unless they had special permits. The late P. S. Bush of
                            
                  Covington, Kentucky
               , described the excitement which the passage of the "
                        New Orleans
                    " caused. 
                        In the fall of the year 1811, after the embargo was laid on English vessels, and before the
                            earthquakes of December, 1811, my father was residing on the 
                                Ohio
                             River nearly opposite Gen. Harrisonk farm at North Bend. The family was much
                            surprised one day by seeing the young Mr. Weldons running down the river bank, much alarmed
                            and shouting, "The British are coming down the river." There had, of 
                        
                           3
                                    Ibid., 19.
                     
                             course, been a current rumor of war with that power.
                            All the family immediately ran to the bank. We saw something, I knew not what, but supposed
                            it was a sawmill from the working of the lever beam, making its slow but solemn progress
                            with the current. We were shortly afterwards informed that it was a steamboat.4
                  
                     The flatboat men made many jokes at the expense of the new craft, but they little realized
                    how much difference it would make in their lives and also in the development of the business and
                    economic life all through the valley. As the years passed, the steamboat was improved and flatboats
                    soon became only secondary to them. Since this is the story of flat-boats, we must pass on.
            One incident of the keelboat seems worth repeating here as it shows the importance of the 
                        Ohio
                     River to the development of other than the material interests of the Midwest. A large,
                    fine keelboat came gaily around the bend above Rising Sun one fine day in December, 1825. This boat
                    landed and several well-dressed men and women came ashore and introduced themselves to the folks who
                    were gathering to see them and their boat. One of them, Robert Dale Owen, explained that his father,
                    Robert Owen, of 
                        Scotland
                    , had purchased the community known as Harmonie, Indiana, located about fifty miles up
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     River from where it empties into the 
                        Ohio
                    . Harmonie had been established in 1814 by a religious group under the leadership of
                    George Rapp who expected to live to see the second coming of Christ. This town, on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , had been constructed with unusually substantial and commodious buildings, land had
                    been cleared, large fields put under cultivation, orchards and vineyards set out, and sheep, goats,
                    hogs, and cattle for dairy and beef were raised. Several industries had also been set up. Above all
                    stood the great church in the form of a Maltese cross which had been constructed with unsually fine
                    skill in design and workmanship. The Harmonie Society and community had been organized as a
                    co-operative group with all sharing equally. Since their markets were too far away and too hard to
                    reach, they had sold to Robert Owen and had removed to a place they had selected in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     which they named Economy.
            Robert Owen had many advanced ideas for all humanity. Robert Dale Owen explained that many of the
                    more than thirty 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 18.
               
                     persons aboard the keelboat had formerly been connected with
                    the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of Science, and they had prepared to re-establish this institution in the new
                    location which had been renamed 
                        New Harmony
                    . Robert Owen and William Maclure, who had joined him, intended to establish free
                    schools including kindergartens, trade schools, and the sciences Among the passengers were Thomas
                    Say, who afterwards became famous as a scientist, and Lucy Sistaire, who later married Say. She was
                    an unusually talented artist and made drawings which she embelished and also paintings of shell fish
                    which Thomas Say collected and classified. Others included two other sons of Robert Owen, Richard
                    Dale Owen and David Dale Owen, and also Joseph Neef and family. When William Maclure first met Neef,
                    he was principal of a large school in 
                        Paris
                    . Maclure engaged him to have charge of the schools, and his contract stipulated that he
                    would be granted an annuity upon retirement. On the keelboat were many valuable books, scientific
                    equipment, household goods, and unusual articles, such as a clock with rotating pendulum which was
                    more than one hundred years old at that time. Though the Owen community as planned was not a
                    success, yet the young men and women who went there to organize schools had a great influence on the
                    intellectual development of the Midwest. One of Robert Owen's sons became the first
                    president of Purdue University, and one of the buildings at Indiana University is named Owen Hall in
                    honor of Richard Dale Owen, who was a professor in the university several years. The unusual
                    character of the sons of Robert Owen is shown in an unusual way at the capitol building of Indiana
                    where there are two memorials, each placed there by voluntary contributions of many people. One is a
                    monument on the statehouse grounds, which was placed there by the women of Indiana and the nation to
                    honor Robert Dale Owen for the efforts he had made, and with considerable success, for the rights of
                    women. The other is a large plaque which is in the rotunda of the building and was furnished by the
                    voluntary contributions of former Confederate prisoners of war in Camp Morton of which Colonel
                    Richard Owen was commandant. The inscription reads: "In honor of Col. Richard Dale Owen who
                    was more like a father than a jailor to us."
            The work of writing this brief story of the flatboat era was suggested to me by James G. Daly, whose
                    grandfather,  Captain Jim Daly, was a flatboatman practically
                    all his life. When I taught in Rising Sun High School, James Daly was in some of my classes, and we
                    became quite good friends. Unexpectedly, James Daly turned the tables on his former English teacher
                    by assigning me the task of writing an essay about the flatboat period. Captain Jim Daly had made
                    his first trip when Indiana was just a new state and carried on until about the last flatboat was to
                    leave Rising Sun when he became ill. His son came to bring him home on a steamboat, but by some
                    accident Captain Jim fell from the steamboat as they were about to land at home, and he sank from
                    sight—his body was never recovered. He had spent his entire life building flatboats,
                    loading them, and piloting them to 
                        New Orleans
                     and other places down the river, then finally, the water of the 
                        Ohio
                     River closed over him, and the river became his final resting place.
            I was flattered when I was chosen to write the article on flatboats, but when I began to check upon
                    my stock of information on the subject, I realized that it was woefully brief and indefinite. When I
                    began to look for some one to hell) me, I was exceptionally fortunate to find two friends who have
                    done so much that they should have most of the credit for the story as it now appears. One is Mrs.
                    Lucie Rieman. 
                        Aurora
                    , Indiana, whose father was a flatboat pilot. She made several trips to 
                        New Orleans
                     when she was a child. The other is Mrs. Abby May Espey 
                        Warren
                    , Rising Sun, Indiana, whose family had been in the flatboat business for many years.
                    She had seen the activities of building large boats each year and the work and organized hustle and
                    bustle of loading them as quickly as possible in order to get them on their way before the earliest
                    freeze could catch them. These two friends gave the information and with it a personal touch. Mrs.
                    Warren arranged a meeting of her brother, Stewart Espey, and Clarence Bedgood, who had also been
                    actively engaged in the flatboat business in the period following the Civil War. One was eighty-six
                    years old and the other eighty-seven. Espey did not make many trips, — but helped manage
                    the large business until it ceased to be profitable in the late eighties. Bed-good spent many years
                    on smaller coasting boats or on shop-boats. These two old-timers recalled that when they were small
                    boys they became involved in a fight. Mrs. Bloss, who had an ice cream parlor was just bringing the
                    brine from  freezing a batch of cream and was about to empty it
                    into the gutter, but when she saw the fight she threw the brine on them. Hostilities ceased
                    immediately, and they never had another fight. We are very fortunate indeed to have the story
                    directly from these two veterans as well as from others who were actually in the business.
            The first flatboats were not very large, many of them not much larger than houseboats, but as
                    opportunities opened and larger boats were needed the same plan was used and the proportions were
                    about the same. In the first years of the steamboat, there was considerable rivalry between the
                    different crews but as the years passed and steamboats were improved flatboat men often had a
                    steamboat tow their boat back home loaded with goods to be sold in the home stores. Empty flatboats,
                    however, usually sold readily just for the lumber in them because lumber was scarce in the South at
                    that time and those flatboats were made of fine northern timber, oak, yellow poplar, and other
                    kinds. And so there was a steady stream of flatboats passing down the 
                        Ohio
                     each fall and out into the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Since very few were brought back, new ones had to be built each year.
            When James Daly wrote to me concerning the article I was to prepare, he gave me considerable
                    information about the flatboat. Though younger than myself, Daly had seen many flatboats, and once
                    his father moved his family 250 miles down the river from Rising Sun to Alton, Indiana, on a
                    flatboat loaded to go down the 
                        Mississippi
                    . James, though only a boy, had helped run this boat so there was Captain Jim Daly, his
                    son Garret, and his grandson James on the same flatboat crew. James G. Daly wrote: 
                        The Flat Boat was distinctly a development of the early pioneers. It was square at both ends
                            and absolutely flatbottomed. The two ends rounded up, as you will remember, and the bottom
                            was nailed on crosswise and there was nothing on the bottom at all to keep it from going in
                            any direction that it pleased. It had oars on the sides that were managed from the roof and
                            were called "sweeps" and they had one oar on each end—on the
                            rear end they called it the steering oar and on the other end the gouger. That was used to
                            throw the boat in any direction they wanted to go when they had to make a sudden change. It
                            took a lot of strength to manage a gouger, because the boat was drifting down on to that oar
                            and when they dipped into the water to take a bite of it they just had to fairly lift the
                            boat sidewise from the end. They needed this in order to avoid snags, trees and stumps and
                            all the other things that you tell about in your story.
                        
                        These boats were small in the beginning, of course, but they grew into very great boats. Some
                            of them that left the landing in 
                                Ohio
                             from Rising Sun were 24 and 30 feet wide and 100 to 120 feet long and it took
                            real power to run them. There would be two sweeps on each side of them with three men to a
                            sweep and two men on the gouger and one on the steering oar. They cut a piece of a tree and
                            brought it up from the very bottom of the boat clear to the top for a check post about which
                            they would let the roap slide when they wanted to slow the boat down and they had one of
                            them at each end. They had platforms across the boat to manage the steering oar and the
                            gouger and other platforms along the sides to manage the sweeps, with the men walking on the
                            left side of the boat to manage the sweep on the right side, because it was long and
                            balanced and had to have a lot of room to operate. With the aid of these oars they could
                            take the boat almost any place they pleased. They also always had a mast erected on them
                            with a sail that they could use when the weather was windy enough to carry the boat along,
                            but not windy enough to make it unmanageable. These boats were built up with heavy planks on
                            the sides to a height of about five feet and from that mark on up they were built of
                            ordinary ship lap siding until they were about eight feet on the sides and perhaps ten feet
                            in the middle with a ridge pole and stanchion that went down through there and then they
                            took green lumber and laid the boards crosswise and nailed them on the sides and nailed them
                            off straight and then covered that with tarred paper and laid another row of boards, lapping
                            the joints so it would not leak. In the rear end they built a "fan-tail"
                            which was nothing more than a sort of platform out there on which the house of convenience
                            was located and the cabin or the place where the men slept and ate was just inside of that
                            They had a stove in there and a table and a kitchen and bunks along the wall and that gave
                            an entry out to the boat proper where the cargo was stored and another one to the rear of
                            the boat to the steps that came up onto the top when the cry of "Oars"
                            came from the pilot.
                        These were the boats that made the history of the 
                                Mississippi
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Rivers and that carried the provisions for all of the people that went down
                            that river and lived along those rivers in the early days. My grandfather made his first
                            trip in 1818 as a cabin boy and he lived on that river until 1902—a long, long
                            time as you can see.5
                  
                    
            
            The hull was the most important part of the flatboat and required good material and workmanship.
                    There was plenty of excellent timber near by, but much of the heavy lumber came from 
                        Cincinnati
                     because small sawmills could not turn out the lumber fast enough, especially the boards
                    twenty to thirty feet long. The heavy boards were fastened by large nails or spikes and all seams
                    were calked and sometimes hot tar was run into them, but not always. Calking which the 
                  
                     5 James G. Daly, 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , to T.
                            W. Records, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, May 10, 1944.
               
                     men pronounced "corkin" made a lot of noise,
                    especially when several men were working at the same time. Even when carefully calked, the hulls
                    would leak some. In order to protect the cargo as well as to protect the bottom from being knocked
                    loose by the cargo, a floor was laid a few inches above the bottom. To take care of the leakage,
                    hand pumps were put in. These as well as the entire construction of the flatboat, were very simple.
                    They had wooden tubes about four inches square and all valves were of wood and leather. To make the
                    job of pumping easier spring poles were placed to pull the piston stem up, so about all the men had
                    to do was to push down as it almost raised itself.
            Mrs. Lucie Ricmam wrote: 
                        My father [William Kirtley Baker] was a Pilot for 30 years. In September, 1883, I was
                            permitted to go to 
                                New Orleans
                             with my mother and father on his boat—like all "old
                            flatboaters" I would like to make the trip again. At that time I was ten years old,
                            yet the memories of that trip and other very pleasant trips still remain vividly with me.
                            But now few remain of the men who owned and operated flatboats. On my first trip, besides my
                            father, there were seven men who all became successful business men in 
                                Aurora
                            . They were Langtree, McGuire, William Mabin, Andy Winkley, Edson Winkley, Hy
                            Cox, and my Uncle George 
                                Mitchell
                            . Some others from 
                                Aurora
                             were Abram Hill, grandfather of Edwin C. Hill, Jacob Harbaugh, Asa Hubbard, and
                            Aaron Huffman. It was considered quite the thing, in a cultural way, to take the trip to 
                                New Orleans
                            . The last trips from 
                                Aurora
                             were made in 1893 when flatboating ceased to be a profitable business. The
                            flatboat was like a barge with sides built up and roofed, with two oars on each side and one
                            at each end. These oars were used to keep it in the channel because if it grounded there was
                            no way to get it afloat again. Not many boats were built at 
                                Aurora
                             but were built above here, probably at 
                                Cincinnati
                            , but they were brought here to be finished, equipped, and loaded. A cabin, also
                            used as a kitchen, was built at the bow of the boat and another at the stern for bunks.
                            There was a slightly elevated bottom as all flatboats leaked more or less, but hand pumps
                            took care of that. A spar at each end of the boat was used to keep it away from the bank,
                            but I might add, if there was a heavy wind the squeaking of those spars were not music,
                            especially if you wanted to sleep. Now as to our cargo; we went 8 or 10 miles down to Rising
                            Sun, passing Laughery Creek, Split Rock, and the home of your grandfather, Captain Tom Pate,
                            who lived in a large brick house opposite the head of Laughery Island. Farther down we
                            rounded a bend and came to Rising Sun. Here we stopped and took on many barrels of apples
                            and potatoes. We then went on, stopping at other places to take on hay, corn, flour, meal,
                            dried fruits and various other things which my father knew he could sell at a profit. At
                            some larger  places he laid in supplies of such things
                            as green coffee, navy beans and staple groceries — which had a market along the
                            coast, as the 
                                Mississippi
                             below 
                                Memphis
                             was called. Though a medium sized boat and loaded to go on to 
                                New Orleans
                             yet we stopped at a number of places and sold our miscellaneous supplies,
                            especially where coasting boats had landed for years. At these points, below 
                                Memphis
                            , many white folks patronized us but there were more colored people who bought
                            our goods. It was slow traveling and a rather lazy life and a happier group of men would be
                            hard to find. The scenery along the 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Mississippi
                             rivers is very beautiful. At 
                                Rockport
                             we bought two well built skiffs which were a great convenience to us and when
                            we got to 
                                New Orleans
                             we sold them for more than they had cost. When we wanted to land or any of the
                            men went ashore they used these skiffs. To land they took the large rope to shore and
                            fastened it to a tree or other solid object and then, by means of the check post, would land
                            our boat. Our last landing to take on cargo was at Cairo, 
                                Illinois
                            , where they shot bales of hay and sacks of oats down a long chute to the
                            deck—it was quite exciting to me to see this. The boats left 
                                Aurora
                             about the middle of September each year so they could get to the 
                                Mississippi
                             before ice began to form, but it got us at Cairo one trip and the men took pike
                            poles and pushed the larger cakes away to keep them from making holes in the hull. On one
                            trip our boat sprung a leak while we were passing through the locks at 
                                Louisville
                             so we had to stop right there to take care of it. The men who operated the
                            locks were irritated and mother was worried but she took the rag carpet up from the cabin
                            floor for calking and saved the day. The lock keeper.; did not use very nice language and
                            father was pretty sore, as it was not his fault; but it soon became just another anecdote of
                            the flatboating business. When we neared 
                                New Orleans
                             the little sail boats with dagoes selling oranges and bananas or oysters and
                            shrimp were a welcome sight because I was tired of eating pies made of dried apples, dried
                            prunes, or dried peaches. When we landed at 
                                New Orleans
                             a tug boat towed us to the landing right beside an ocean going vessel. When we
                            disposed of our cargo and sold our boat we attended the wonderful Cotton Exposition. To me,
                            however, about all I recall seeing were the Liberty bell and Peter Cooper's first
                            steam engine. Returning by train I got a real thrill crossing Lake Ponchatrain on a long
                            trestle and for a time we were out of sight of land. But when we reached 
                                Cincinnati
                             in February, 1883, we found the 
                                Ohio
                             River having the greatest flood of its history, and which, for many years, we
                            supposed to be the all time high water. Hut in 1937 we were sadly disillusioned when the
                            1884 flood was topped by several feet; so now we wonder if the all time high has finally
                            been reached. Rut modern flood control measures will be carried nut before many years, I am
                            sure. The following fall we went again and at that time I saw the Mardi Gras which so
                            impressed me that I am thrilled at the memory of that gorgeous parade. In closing I want to
                            say that my father made several trips to 
                                Louisville
                             and had his boat towed back. The Wymonds had a large cooper shop in 
                                Aurora
                             and then established one  in 
                                Louisville
                             and father took cargoes of hoop poles and other material down.6
                  
                    
            
            Mrs. May Espey 
                        Warren
                     of Rising Sun, Indiana, related the following about flatboats and of a flatboat trip
                    she took: 
                        Flatboats varied in size from smaller boats in coast trade and which were ten feet wide by
                            fifty feet long to produce boats made for the trip direct to 
                                New Orleans
                            , or for trade along the 
                                Mississippi
                            . These were as much as 25 feet wide by 125 feet long. The material used was oak
                            and yellow poplar. The boats were all built locally though the heavier bottom planks were
                            usually obtained from 
                                Cincinnati
                             and constructed by local boat builders, who became quite expert. For many years
                            twenty to thirty flatboats left Rising Sun each year. The flatboat business extended all
                            along the 
                                Ohio
                             River —
                                Ohio
                            , Indiana, and 
                                Illinois
                             on the north side and West 
                                Virginia
                             and 
                                Kentucky
                             on the south side. The larger boats always carried a recognized pilot. On early
                            boats the pilot guided by trees, local land marks, hills and the like, as there were no
                            government lights then. Also there were many obstructions which were later removed by the
                            government. Many of the smaller boats were built in large creeks and loaded by farmers in
                            the vicinity as a co-operative enterprise, which may have helped spread the idea of farm
                            co-operatives as we now have them. And some of the farm boys who raised the crops also
                            helped build the flatboats and later made the trip down the river. One such place was 
                                Hartford
                            , on Laughery Creek, which boasted a "ship yard" for many
                            years. This traffic by farmers was largely before the Civil War. My father commenced
                            flatboating when about twenty years of age. Afterwards, for many years, he loaded and sent
                            flatboats each year but did not himself make the trips. However I remember when I was a
                            little child my father had two flatboats that were caught in early river ice. They were
                            saved but the danger made all the crew leave with the exception of one man. This man saved a
                            heavy loss because flatboats which had been abandoned could be siezed and claimed by law. It
                            seems strange there were so few flatboats lost for the hazards were great and there was a
                            rather heavy investment. Material alone in a large boat would cost at least $750,
                            and the labor, though cheap, ran the cost up. The cargo, sometimes as much as 2,500 barrels
                            of potatoes which cost when loaded, from $3,000 to $5,000. The boats
                            were usually sold to be wrecked after the cargoes were disposed of, but occasionally one was
                            brought back by tow boat. It seems strange that boat after boat was loaded with potatoes,
                            here, while now not enough potatoes are raised for local needs. 1 remember well the long
                            lines of potato wagons coming into Rising Sun to be weighed and loaded on flat-boats at the
                            landing, in the fall, ready to start as early as possible. In those years the Espeys
                            probably sent more flatboats than any other family in Rising Sun. Those were both through
                            boats, loaded 
                        
                           6 Mrs. Lucie B. Rieman, 
                                        Aurora
                                    , Indiana, to Thos. W. Records, 
                                        New Harmony
                                    , Indiana, September 9, 1944, and September 24, 1944.
                     
                             with potatoes or corn and hay and usually consigned to 
                                New Orleans
                            , or produce boats loaded with things to be sold along the 
                                Mississippi
                             below 
                                Memphis
                            , and usually referred to as "the coast." Several large
                            flatboats were sent each year by various Rising Sun men operating them, and besides these
                            cargoes a vast amount of produce went south on steam boats which was sent by some of the
                            same men. Those active in the flatboat business then were Captain Jim Daly, H. S. Espey, H.
                            Espey, Walker and Bedgood, Ullery, Ben C. Calkins, George McAroy, Oscar Jones, Samuel R.
                            Seward, Ed Granger, Captain William Hemphill, Pierce & Jackson (a blacksmith boat,
                            afterward Pierce & Steel), James Hastings, Grace, J. W. Talbot, Jeff Howard, Captain
                            Ben North, John Clore, Ruben Clore, Captain John C. Miller and probably many others. Your
                            grandfather, Captain Tom Pate, had some thrilling flatboat experiences with which you are
                            probably familiar. Often over 100 flatboat men would return on the same steamboat, their
                            flatboat trip completed about the same time. In this way the two somewhat rival groups,
                            steam boat men and flatboat men, came to know each other and got along fine. Sometimes a
                            flatboat going south would meet a packet with a large white "0" between
                            its smoke stacks, indicating she was of the 
                                Ohio
                             River line. The crew would send out a skiff and the men would call,
                            "T-h-r-o-w u-s a p-a-p-e-r." Usually the steam boats carried bundles of
                            late papers which they distributed along the way at landings and these were read over and
                            over by a crew floating along toward market. On one trip Henry and Ruben Clore, who were
                            manufacturing plows and other farm equipment, adapted to use in raising cotton and other
                            southern crops, loaded two boats which they chained together. Just above 
                                Memphis
                             they struck an obstruction and both boats were lost—not having any
                            insurance. This loss of several thousand dollars practically ruined these fine men,
                            financially. Another boat owned by the Espeys and operated by Frank Espey, then a young man,
                            went aground near New Madrid, 
                                Missouri
                            . They threw barrel after barrel overboard to lighten it but an unusually early
                            freeze caught them and they were held up for six weeks. Coasting boats would take up
                            business wherever they could, and besides selling at southern plantations they landed at
                            small towns and sometimes did a very good business. But the local merchants did not like the
                            outside competition so licenses with pretty high fees were required of flatboats. Then some
                            of the boats that had been accustomed to stopping there would tie up on the opposite side of
                            the river and customers came across in skiffs, but sometimes the crew loaded their skiff and
                            took it across near the town and sold the contents, sometimes as much as $100
                            worth in a single skiff load. On a trip in 1876 the Bedgoods found 
                                Memphis
                             with a rare blanket of 22 inches of snow and with such heavy ice that the
                            steamer "H. P. Schenck," with Dick Burns, of Rising Sun, as clerk, had to
                            have a tug boat move her. At first all flatboats were loaded along the 
                                Ohio
                             River and went out into the 
                                Mississippi
                             to the South. This did not change until the 
                                Illinois
                             Central railway began to bring produce to Cairo which was loaded on the boats
                            from large warehouses along the high levee; then many boats would count on  completing their loads at Cairo, and it is said that as many as
                            20 or 30 flatboats would be loading or waiting their turns at the same time, while in
                            addition sometimes a half dozen packets for lower 
                        Mississippi, St. Louis
                     ,
                            or up the 
                                Missouri
                             River were there, too. Since flatboats floated always down stream they could
                            not carry material and supplies to the pioneers in the great West, but steam boats did that
                            work. The flatboat era was at its height just before the Civil War and revived for a period
                            after the war but finally ended in the 1890's.
                        When I was sixteen years old, my parents decided to make a flat-boat trip, and in April I
                            joined them at Natchez, 
                                Mississippi
                            . My trip to Natchez was made on the steam boat "
                                Houston
                            " which was a large, beautiful boat with Captain Lew Kates in charge.
                            Through years I have traveled much but I can recall no trip as pleasant as that one. The
                            scenery was beautiful all the way down especially the native verdure on the 
                                Ohio
                            . The passengers were treated as guests, officers took us on tours through
                            cities and towns where we landed enroute. At Natchetz I met my parents and transferred to
                            the flatboat. The load was practically sold out so we coasted slowly along from Natchez to 
                                New Orleans
                            . This gave me an opportunity to see the mansions of ante-bellum days, and how
                            stately those white pillared homes looked; a perfect setting for all the romantic southern
                            stories of school girl days. I recall glorious moonlight nights, the flatboat moving
                            silently down stream, the singing of negroes in cabins or in churches, wafted from shore.
                            Occasionally a big steamer passed, fruit luggers glided by. We were anxious to finish the
                            trip and reach 
                                New Orleans
                             and the broad, beautifully moonlit river gave good opportunity to continue
                            often until past midnight, before tying up for the night. The levees were lower then giving
                            us a good view of the shores. The former 
                                Baton Rouge
                             state house must have been an architect's night mare, but with its
                            turrets and towers, my young mind pictured it just like English castles and very beautiful.
                            The entire trip from Natchez to 
                                New Orleans
                             seemed indescribably lovely. That section was called the sugar coast. Finally
                            our weather worn flatboat tied up in the busiest harbor I have ever seen, 
                                New Orleans
                            . It was overwhelming to a little girl from Rising Sun to see many ocean going
                            vessels, steam boats galore, gulf boats of all kinds and a vast amount of freight being
                            loaded and unloaded on the open levees—hundreds of negroes running back and
                            forth, the mates yelling and swearing at the negroes constantly.
                        I have wished that I might have helped you more, but my first hand knowledge of flatboating
                            was just the afterglow of a factor that had been vital in our family and our town for a long
                            time. How eagerly I listened each year for the throaty whistle of steam boats which meant
                            the return of family members who had taken a flatboat "down the river."
                            And we were sure that in addition to a returning brother there would be a bunch of
                            bananas—a luxury in that day. Too, I enjoyed the annual September exploration of
                            flatboats, the loading, and the smell of new lumber. So you see I had a bit of flatboating.
                            And long afterward, at a 
                                New York
                             art exhibition, I  found a picture of a
                            flatboat painted by an early American artist. I wonder if any others who viewed that
                            painting had ever heard of a flatboat7
                  
                    
            
            Relations between Northern flatboat men and Southern, white people became strained just before the
                    Civil War, but after the war hostility declined somewhat, though it still persisted. An incident
                    involved Steven Dibble, of Patrior, when he was having a tugboat take his flatboat in at 
                        New Orleans
                    . Steve was wearing his old army overcoat with several buttons missing. There was a
                    strong wind and Dibble probably did not trust the ex-Confederate tugboat skipper so he dashed from
                    side to side and from one end to the other with his coat flapping in the wind. A spectator said,
                    "lookit the damned Yank, flyin’ round like he had hot grease in his
                    pants."
            References have been made to my grandfather, Captain Thomas Pate, so I feel that I should not omit
                    telling something about him, but am sorry to say that I do not have much relating to his experiences
                    as a flatboat man. He got his earliest experience on one of the flatboats built and loaded at 
                        Hartford
                    , on Laughery. He made his first trip when he was 18 or 19 years of age and from
                    knowledge of the rivers gained that way, he was able to qualify as a steamboat pilot. During the
                    Civil War, he was a pilot in the navy and served on gunboats operating on the 
                        Mississippi
                     River and was on such assignment during the seige of Vicksburg. It happened that he was
                    the only pilot on board when the final engagement started so he had to stand at the wheel for 36
                    hours without relief. Half of the pilot wheel was torn off by a point blank cannon ball which he
                    escaped by dropping to the floor as he saw the gunner touch his match to the vent. Captain Pate
                    became part owner and captain of a steamboat after the Civil War. One narrow escape he had was
                    before the war when he was pilot on the steamer "Red Stone" which blew up while he
                    was at the wheel. Though severely injured, he managed to get hold of some wreckage and kept afloat
                    until rescued. But such incidents belong in the story of steamboats. Captain Tom, as his friends
                    called him, once had an unusual experience when he took a flatboat south before the war. It was
                    customary, if the Southern planter made the necessary arrangements, for his people to get such
                    supplies as he authorized, and he would settle for them 
                  
                     7 Mrs. Abby May 
                                Warren
                            , Rising Sun, Indiana, to T. W. Records, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, July 20, 1944, and October 12, 1944.
               
                     when the boat was ready to leave. At one such plantation
                    Captain Tom found that this planter had sometimes failed to pay up. He also learned that he kept a
                    pack of savage-blood hounds at the mansion house. After sending word that he was ready to leave and
                    getting no response, he made the long trip to the mansion house. It was surrounded by a high board
                    fence with a small gate as an entrance. He went through the gate, but was no sooner inside when the
                    savage dogs rushed out from under the "gallery." He could have escaped by jumping
                    back through the gate, but he quickly decided differently. He ran to a corner so no dog could reach
                    him except from the front. The first one rushed at him, but Captain Tom was wearing very heavy boots
                    and placed a kick which gave the hound a major stomach-ache, another one came flying at him and went
                    down with stomach trouble also. The rest of the pack hesitated, and the owner emerged from the house
                    and whistled for his hounds—two of them did not come. The planter began accusing
                    grandfather of killing his best hounds, but he was told he owed a certain sum and that it was due
                    immediately. He paid and grandfather left with his revolver in sight and was soon on his boat and on
                    his way. A similar incident did not come out so well. In that case the flatboat captain went to
                    collect but did not return. His crew went 011 a search and found the captain's
                    body—he had been murdered and robbed. After one of his earliest trips, Tom Pate came back
                    to his home near 
                        Hartford
                     unannounced. He arrived soon after dark and a light snow was falling, through a window
                    of the shoeshop he saw several friends so he took off his shoes and then gave a shrill whistle and
                    ran out of sight on his toes. When they rushed out and saw his tracks, they decided it was a
                    "painter" which was their name for a wildcat, but just as they were organizing to
                    hunt for it, Tom Pate walked out and repeated his whistle. Thus Captain Tom lived near the river and
                    on the river until he and his wife left the old brick house near Laugliery Island which had been his
                    home so long and which he could see from the deck of his steamers as he passed. He retired to Rising
                    Sun and afterward he and his son, T. Smith Pate, loaded a coasting boat. One evening my father took
                    us to see this boat which was tied up at Rabbit Hash, 
                        Kentucky
                    . We crossed from Rising Sun and after we had visited awhile in the cabin of my uncle
                    Smith said he had to see if the boat was leaking and asked if I would like to go along. The hull was
                    pitch dark and the lantern made weird shadows  which looked
                    awfully scary to a four-year old boy, but Uncle Smith kept talking as if to himself until suddenly
                    he acted quite surprised to find some candy which it seemed he did not know was there. He got a nice
                    bag of striped stick candy which he gave to me and when we got back to the cabin, he produced
                    another bag for the other guests so I didn't have to share my candy after all. And thus I
                    can say I did have some flatboat experience on the last boat that Captain Tom Pate, my grandfather,
                    was interested in. Grandfather had several brothers who made one or more trips from 
                        Hartford
                     down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    , and Taylor Pate sent a good many boats from Patriot some of them having been built at
                    Rising Sun. Other Pates were James, Ben, Fletcher, and Peter, though the last named did not do much
                    flatboating.
            The story of flatboating is a good deal like the boats themselves, each one was usually a private
                    enterprise and though incidents and experiences were similar yet they did not lend themselves to
                    continuity. In the very early days, there were always snags and sand bars, and for many the falls at 
                        Louisville
                     made flatboating rather hazardous. And sometimes gangs would come to a lone boat tied
                    up for the night and would rob crew and boat, but such attacks were infrequent. Shortly after the
                    close of the War of 1812, a gang of murderers and robbers established themselves at Cave in Rock, 
                        Illinois
                    . The leader had been an officer in the army. He went under several names, but his real
                    name was Wilson. There is a large cave in the cliff by the river and from this the place gets its
                    name. The gang used this cave which was convenient for them as it had two entrances, one at the foot
                    of a one hundred foot cliff facing the river but hidden by bushes, the other at a level spot on top
                    of the cliff. They had. a hotel back of the cliff which they used to lure travelers. Those who
                    possessed money or other valuables were murdered and robbed. They also waylaid travelers in the
                    wilderness so that it was not safe to travel in that part of 
                        Illinois
                     or adjacent 
                        Kentucky
                    . As the number of flatboats increased, they turned their attention to them and lured
                    them ashore in different ways. Sometimes a, man would row out by himself and ask for help for his
                    sick family. Other schemes were used, but the results were the same and all the victims were
                    murdered. It is said they even captured one of the early steamboats, but this has never been
                    confirmed. One boat, however, was lost in that vicinity with no survivors. Finally, the government
                    offered a reward of five thousand dollars for  Wilson dead or
                    alive. Five daring men started to win that prize, but they were captured instead. They made Wilson
                    believe they really wanted to join the gang so they were not put to death. As soon as they could,
                    they escaped and realizing the gang was too strong for them to hope for success themselves, they
                    organized a large posse and captured Wilson. Since they were of the opinion that he would try to
                    escape and that his gang would probably try to rescue him, the posse had a brief trial and then
                    executed him. They packed his head in clay and shipped it to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     where the outlaw was identified, and the reward sent. That ended the Cave in Rock
                    robber gang. Of course, there were always cases of men disappearing and foul play was suspected, but
                    nothing on such an organized scale.
            In the history of flatboating the heaviest single loss from Rising Sun was that of the two Clore
                    boats which were loaded with machinery and repair parts. Later, another flatboat owned, loaded, and
                    manned by Ulmanseik and Stegemiller and named "The Sauer Kraut" struck an unseen
                    object, and flatboat as well as the cargo were a total loss.
            Some incidents recorded by historians might have been Rising Sun boats and were, no doubt, known to
                    many Rising Sun inhabitants. One was at Tobinsport, 
                        Kentucky
                    , when heavy fog almost caused a collision between a flatboat and a small ferryboat. The
                    pilot said, "I thought sure we would hit that ferry but a tall young fellow who was running
                    it, jumped to the gouger and fairly lifted his boat out of our way. I heard another fellow call him
                    Abe and told him to look out, but Abe had seen us as soon as the other fellow," Then at a
                    later period some of the men related their experiences to the folks back home. They told of the 
                        New Orleans
                     slave market and how horrified they had been at some of the things they had seen there.
                    One man said, "I saw a big tall fellow who just stood silent while a half white girl was
                    put up for sale, I saw his knuckles become white as he clenched his fists. Then as he turned away he
                    looked almost sick and he said, "if ever I get a chance I will hit that business and hit it
                    hard"; one of the men with him said he was Abe Lincoln from up Sangamon River in 
                        Illinois
                    ." And thus flatboat men gathered ideas and passed them on to friends back
                    home.
            One source of information for this article has been, "Happenings of the Past," in
                    the Rising Sun Recorder. There have been several items about flatboats. One which
                    I followed  was about a boat from North's Landing and
                    the crew was listed as Captain J. H. Barker, mate, George North, clerk, Grant North, and chamber
                    maid, Neall Powell. She was reported as loaded with 4,022 barrels of potatoes.8
                    My home was in sight of North's Landing and I knew all of the crew except Captain Barker so
                    I wrote to Grant North who answered promptly. North said the boat was really a barge with a roof and
                    was not difficult to operate, but was in a tow with nearly a dozen other produce boats of the same
                    kind. Grant continued, "So we had no use for mate, clerk, or chamber maid or
                    cook—about all we did was to eat and sleep going down." It appears, therefore,
                    that the crew just went along for the ride, which was not a bad idea. An item of 1884 said,
                    "H. S. Espey and Son have contracted with W. H. Whitlock for a new flatboat 92 1/2 feet
                    long and 22 1/2 feet wide for the fall trade."9 Another item dated 1874
                    said that Captain Espey had started south to look after his interests in that direction and that T.
                    Smith Pate was taking Captain Espey's place behind the counter during his absence.10 I can imagine with what keen interest Captain Espey would watch for his own
                    boats floating along, and perhaps, as he passed them, he gave them a brief message from Rising Sun.
                    Then in New Orlems, he would meet commission men and then probably select goods to be sent up to
                    Rising Sun. I recall how quickly the news spread that an Espey flatboat loaded with goods for his
                    stores had been towed up from 
                        New Orleans
                    . People flocked to the Espey stores to see even if they did not want to buy. There were
                    groceries of all kinds and also drygoods and other things, many of which were imported or had come
                    down the Atlantic coast and through the Gulf of Mexico. Espey not only stocked his own stores, but
                    permitted other merchants to have some of the goods. It is told that flatboats, in passing, would
                    often hail each other and call out, "Where from and what's your
                    load?" When the answer was "Indiana" they would often laugh
                    and say, "hoop poles and punkins, of course." Crews from boats to the lower 
                        Mississippi
                     usually came home on packets or towboats, sometimes working to defray the expense of
                    the trip back. When the boats went no farther than 
                        Memphis
                    , especially if navigation was closed by ice, the men sometimes walked home through 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . It is related that three Indiana boys 
                  
                     8 Rising Sun, Indiana, Recorder, December 21, 1944.
                  
                     9
                     Ibid., September 7, 1944.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., February 10, 1944.
               
                     were coming home on foot, and about dark they came to an old
                    school building and found the door unlocked. They entered and discovered a fire in the stove and a
                    tramp. He would not talk to them, but began scratching himself vigorously which was probably to
                    indicate that there were insects around. The Hoosiers went him one better. They joked about lice and
                    other insects they had met, and then one of them began laughing and when questioned, he said, he had
                    failed to tell them that he had been told that the bed they had slept in the night before had been
                    occupied by a man who had died of smallpox. The tramp left in a hurry. Such incidents, true or not,
                    were the tales told by returning crewmen.
            After this article on Flatboats had been completed, I found the following paragraph in the program of
                    the dedication of Human Field at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, on October 3, 1944.
            
                    Three methods of transportation peculiar to the early days were outstanding in the 
                            Wabash
                         Valley. These were flatboats, river steam boats and canals. The flatboats covered
                        the down-river trade to 
                            New Orleans
                        , furnishing to the planters of the South, pork, bacon, lard, beef, cheese, butter,
                        flour, corn, hay, tobacco and whiskey, and were a combination of log cabins, floating barnyard,
                        country grocery and fort, the latter for protection from the river pirates who infested the
                        banks of the lower 
                            Ohio
                         and 
                            Mississippi
                        . These boats were long and narrow, sixty or more feet in length, and from ten to
                        twenty feet in width. They required from thirty to sixty days to make the trip from this section
                        to 
                            New Orleans
                        , and ninety days to return. After 1820 the flatboat crew could return by steamboat.
                        So vast was this transportation system that in the spring of 1826 one hundred and fifty-two of
                        these flatboats passed 
                            Vincennes
                        , enroute to 
                            New Orleans
                        , coming principally from 
                            Terre Haute
                        .
                
            Thus we see how important the flatboat era was along the entire 
                        Ohio
                     River and its tributaries. Boats from as far up the 
                        Wabash
                     as Peru came out into the 
                        Ohio
                     River below 
                        Evansville
                     and then out into the broad 
                        Mississippi
                     where men from many places exchanged ideas and laid the foundations for the great
                    empire of the Midwest.
            The time came when the Southern markets were closed because of changed transportation and farming
                    methods and even the lumber in the boats was no longer in demand because a great lumber industry had
                    developed in the South. The last flatboat was cast off at Rising Sun with Captain Jim Daly in
                    charge. It drifted slowly down the 
                        Ohio
                     River and around East Bend. Those who watched it go out of sight turned to other
                    interests, little did they realize that an era in the history of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley had come to an end—the flatboat era.
         
         
         
            A Sketch of Congregationalism in Indiana to 1858
            FREDERICK KUHNS
               1
            
            The story of early Congregationalism in Indiana has never been fully told. Brief accounts of a
                    general nature, and anniversary sketches of individual churches have, of course, been written, but
                    no adequate treatment of the subject, based on the available manuscript material, has ever appeared.
                    In part this is because Congregationalists were not writing the history of their denomination as
                    leaders of other denominations in Indiana were doing; in part because the source material has not
                    been examined. Still another consideration is that Congregational churches in Indiana were so few in
                    number. This paper is not a complete account of the growth of Congregationalism. It is a sketch,
                    rather than a compendium, of this growth to the year 1858. Its aim is to suggest lines for further
                    treatment, not exhaustively to deal with the subject.
            The paucity of early Congregational churches in Indiana poses an interesting problem.2 Speaking generally, Congregational churches were organized by emigrants from the New 
                        England
                     states. Although New Englanders settled in Indiana, they were but few in number, as
                    Lois Kimball Mathews has shown.3 Because that element formed a lower percentage
                    of Indiana's population, there is less reason to look for Congregational churches in that
                        state.4
            
            
               
                  1 The writer is preparing a doctoral dissertation at the University of 
                            Chicago
                         on the subject, The Operations of the American Home Missionary Society in the Old
                        Northwest, 1826–1861. The material here published is based on that research.
               
                  2 The late Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, Christopher B.
                        Coleman, has stated that one must look to "the religious antecedents of the settlers
                        rather than other considerations" for the weakness of this denomination. Coleman,
                        "Some Religious Developments in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                            History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905-), V (1909), 63; Outline of Church History of Indiana,
                            Bulletin No. 5 of the Indiana Historical Commission [
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916], 5.
               
                  3 Lois K. Mathews, The Expansion of New 
                                England
                            
                   (
                            Boston
                        , 1909), 196–220.
               
                  4 According to the 1850 census the population of Indiana was 988, 416. Yet
                        in comparison with the population which was native to Indiana (541,079), New Englanders numbered
                        only 10,646, or two per cent. Again, in comparison with the number of Indiana settlers who had
                        been born outside of the state but within the 
                            United States
                         (390,313), the New 
                            England
                         element in Indiana amounted to only 2.7 per cent. In contrast to the situation
                        obtaining in 1850 in 
                     Ohio, Michigan, Illinois
                  , and 
                            Wisconsin
                         where New Englanders were exceedingly numerous, this element hardly exceeded one
                        per cent of the total
            
            
            Aside from the rather general fact that New Englanders were scarce in Indiana, there were no
                    important Congregational colonies in the state; nor had extensive sales of public lands been made to
                    such companies as were purchasing them for New Englanders settling in 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , thus brightening the prospects of Congregationalism there. Nor, as far as is known,
                    were any Congregational churches constituted at the East for emigration to a preselected site in
                    Indiana. Moreover, it frequently happened that the New Englanders who settled in Indiana were of the
                    Baptist faith, as the settlement of the northern tier of counties illustrates.5
            
            Why did New Englanders not come in larger numbers to Indiana? First, the early settlement
                    of the state had proceeded from the South.6 Emigrants continued to flow from
                    this section to Indiana long after 1825.7 Prior to that date, New Englanders
                    usually reached this part of the West by crossing 
                        Ohio
                     or by descending the 
                        Ohio
                     River.8 Although Indiana was "free" under the
                    Ordinance of 1787, the threat of slavery was not dealt a death blow in the state until 1823.
                    Emigrants from New 
                        England
                     probably did not desire to mingle their strong antislavery prejudices with Southerners.
                    The same argument would apply to 
                        Illinois
                    , although some New Englanders took up military lands in that state. It may also be
                    observed that the main current of emigration 
                  population of the state of Indiana. Indiana's foreign-born population (54,426)
                            amounted to more than five times the number of New 
                                England
                             emigrants. If, for the purpose of calculation, one adds all who had settled in
                            Indiana by 1850 from the state of 
                                New York
                             (24,310), on the theory that a large percentage of these emigrants had
                            originally been New Englanders or were descendants of New Englanders (which is not highly
                            improbable), only 3.5 per cent of the population would have given Indiana a Yankee
                            flavoring. Seventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1850, Statistics, xxxvi, 756, 780–781. Since the figures
                            on page 780 vary slightly from those on page xxxvi, those on the latter page were used. The
                            1860 census showed 12,307 New Englanders in Indiana, or only nine-tenths of one per cent of
                            the total population (1,350,428). Eighth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1860, Statistics of Population, I, iv, 130.
                  
                     5 Mathews, The Expansion of New 
                                    England
                                
                     , 196–220; History of 
                                    Steuben
                                 County, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 455–456.
                  
                     6 Frederick J. Turner, Rise of the New West (American
                                Nation Series, 28 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1904–1925, edited by Albert B. Hart), XIV (1906), 75–78.
                  
                     7 John D. Barnhart, "Sources of Southern Migration into the
                            Old Northwest," 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), XXII (1935), 49–62.
                  
                     8 Frederic L. Paxson, "The Gateways of the Old
                            Northwest," Historical Collections … 
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer and Historical Society (Lansing, 
                                Michigan
                            , 1877–1929), XXXVIII (1912), 139–148.
               
                     from New 
                        England
                     to the region west of 
                        Ohio
                     did not set in until after 1830.9 Second, while the opening of the
                    Erie Canal in 1825 augured well for the settlement of northern Indiana, the results were
                    disappointingly small. Despite the use of the old 
                        Detroit
                    -
                        Chicago
                     Trail and the portage of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River at 
                        South Bend
                    , it was more difficult to reach Indiana than the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    . Milwaukee and 
                        Chicago
                     were more accessible than was the northern tier of Indiana. While southern and eastern 
                        Michigan
                     filled rapidly owing to the facility of passage through the Erie Canal, northern 
                        Illinois
                     and southern 
                        Wisconsin
                     did not share extensively in the migrations from New 
                        England
                     until the Winnebago and Black Hawk Indian uprisings had been put down. Even in the
                    1840's northern Indiana was relatively isolated. As late as 1846 Indiana-bound shipping was
                    considered a bad risk due to storms on Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . Damage was repeatedly inflicted by wind and waves on the 
                        Michigan
                     City harbor, a harbor whose improvement Congress entirely neglected while the war with
                    Mexico was being prosecuted.10 Third, it has beer, demonstrated that the
                    "wet lands" of the Hoosier state greatly retarded the settlement of its northern
                    and north-central sections.11 Speculation in the public lands of
                            
                  Illinois, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , added to the relative ease with which these regions could be reached by hundreds of
                    thousands of colonists, accounted for a more rapid settlement around and beyond Indiana. Previous to
                    the Panic of 1837, emigrants from the New 
                        England
                     states, by-passing Indiana, were pouring into these other states and territories. After
                    1843 a measure of economic improvement was noticeable and colonists swarmed into them in even
                    greater numbers.12
            
            
               
                  9 Arthur C. Boggess, The Settlement of 
                                Illinois
                            , 1778–1830, in 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society, Collections, V (
                            Chicago
                        , 1908), 146, 180, 185. The defeat of the proslavery forces in Indiana influenced
                        the vote in 
                            Illinois
                         in 1824 when the proposal to hold a state convention was decisively beaten.
               
                  10 The letters of Erastus Colton, pastor of the Congregational church of 
                            Michigan
                         City, Indiana, describe this situation in the later 1840's. Erastus
                        Colton, 
                            Michigan
                         City, Indiana, to 
                            Milton
                         Badger, 
                            New York
                        , December 9, 1847 and April 1, 1848, in the American Home Missionary Society
                        Papers, 
                            Hammond
                         Library, 
                            Chicago
                         Theological Seminary, 
                     Chicago,
                                Illinois
                  .
               
                  11 Richard L. Power, "Wet Lands and the Hoosier
                        Stereotype," 
                     
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review, XXII, 33–48.
               
                  12 Mathews, The Expansion of New 
                                England
                            
                  , 196–249. See also James Thomson, 
                            Wabash
                        , Indiana, to 
                            Milton
                         Badger, 
                            New York
                        , July 1, 1845, who says: "I have been disappointed thus far in the aid
                        that I
            
            
            There is a more cogent reason why the forces of Congregationalism in Indiana were impoverished in the
                    early period. This is to be found in the record of the agencies which planted the numerous mission
                    churches, namely, the Presbyterian General Assembly's Board of Missions, the Missionary
                    Society of 
                        Connecticut
                     and the United Domestic Missionary Society. In Indiana the appointees of all these
                    agencies organized only Presbyterian churches. Despite the fact that a large percentage of the
                    ministers employed by the two last-named societies were Congregationalists, no Congregational
                    churches were formed in Indiana.13 When the American Home Missionary Society
                    entered the Indiana field in 1826, its appointees followed the precedent of founding Presbyterian
                        churches.14
            
            As far as is known, there was not a Congregational church in Indiana until 1833 when one was formed
                    at 
                        Bath
                    , in 
                        Franklin County
                    , only a few miles across the state line from 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , where Robert 
                        Hamilton
                     Bishop and his followers in Miami University strengthened the Presbyterian cause. The
                    origin of this church is traceable to a dispute occurring in the Presbyterian church of 
                        Bath
                    . The Congregationalists, who partly composed it, revolted against the highhanded
                    measures of Archibald Craig, a former appointee of the American Home Missionary Society, who became
                    the pastor in 1833. Founded in 1822, the Presbyterian church in 
                        Bath
                     had recently enjoyed the pastoral labors of one Peter Crocker, a Congregationalist from
                    Falmouth, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who had come West for his health, bought a farm in this vicinity and preached by leave
                    of the 
                        Oxford
                     Presbytery. Craig, an Old School Presbyterian, did not take kindly to these
                    arrangements. Permitting jealousy to run away with his reason, he literally bolted the church doors
                    against the Congregationalists after he had agitated in the church session 
                  hoped we who are toiling here to lay the foundations would receive by immigration after
                            our Canal was opened. Thus far I have not had one good helper in all that have come in these
                            three years past. Almost all the help of that kind as yet pass us by and go on to 
                                Wisconsin
                             or 
                                Michigan
                            ." This letter is in the American Home Missionary Society Papers.
                  
                     13 John M. Dickey, A Brief History of the Presbyterian
                                Church in the State of Indiana (
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, 1828), 16–18; Hanford A. Ed-son, Contributions to the Early History of the Presbyterian Church in
                            Indiana…. (
                                Cincinnati
                            . 
                                Ohio
                            . 1898). I, 255–258.
                  
                     14 Nathaniel A. Hyde, Congregationalism in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895), 15, 19.
               
                     the troublesome question of excommunicating them. Failing to
                    dampen the ardor of his rivals, Craig had to content himself with preaching to the small
                    Presbyterian remnant while Crocker continued as the pastor over the Congregationalists, who
                    organized their own church and erected a house of worship 30 x 50 feet in size. When Moses H. Wilder
                    became the pastor in 1836, the 
                        Bath
                     Congregational church was strong and healthy. It aided in organizing the First
                    Congregational Association of Indiana in 1837.15
            
            Wilder soon found himself laden with responsibilities, not only as the Association scribe, but as the
                    pastor of two other small Congregational churches in the region. One of these was at 
                        Fairfield
                    , the other was on Sand Creek in 
                        Decatur
                     County. Another Congregational church was organized in 
                        Decatur
                     County out of "the better half" of the Presbyterian church organized
                    earlier by Samuel G. Lowry, who had recently been transferred to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     as the home missionary agent for northern Indiana. Here Presbyterianism of the Old
                    School struggled to maintain itself against the Congregationalism of a few New Englanders who were
                    dissatisfied with the party strife in the General Assembly. Although it was shortlived, the Indiana
                    Association was a direct challenge to Presbyterianism. As Wilder said,
            
                    The association met [and] appointed a standing committee of missions who through their scribe
                        shall be a medium [of] correspondence with the Am. Home Miss. Society respecting applications
                        for aid from the churches within our bounds [in order] that we may make our applications 
                     
                        15 August J. Reifel, History of 
                                        Franklin County
                                    , Indiana (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 1915), 447–448; Atlas of 
                                        Franklin
                                     Co., Indiana,… (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1882), 41, 101; Atlas of Union County,
                                Indiana,… (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1884), 15, 40, 69; James H. Rodabaugh, Robert 
                                        Hamilton
                                     Bishop in 
                                    Ohio
                                 Historical Collections, IV (
                           Columbus, Ohio
                        , 1935), 97–115; Moses H. Wilder, 
                                    Bath
                                , Indiana, to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                                    New York
                                , November 21, 1836; application of the church committee to the American
                                Home Missionary Society secretaries, 
                                    Bath
                                , Indiana, September 29, 1836; Moses H. Wilder, 
                                    Bath
                                , Indiana, to Absalom Peters, 
                                    New York
                                , February 8, May 2, July 31, and October 30, 1837. Hyde mentions the
                                organization of the First Congregational Association of Indiana in Congregationalism in Indiana, 37–38, and quotes from an old issue
                                of the 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , Indiana, 
                           
                                        Wabash
                                     Courier relative to its formation, but he fails to give the date
                                of issue. An earlier version of the Hyde treatise was published in the Minutes of the … Congregational Churches and Ministers of Indiana
                                … (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 1883), 27–42, without reference to the First
                                Congregational Association. See also Matthew Spinka (ed.), A History of 
                                        Illinois
                                     Congregational and Christian Churches (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1944), 61–63 for a brief statement of the significance of the
                                revolt against the Plan of Union being participated in by Congregationalists in Indiana, 
                                    Michigan
                                , and 
                                    Illinois
                                .
                  
                         direct to your committee instead of going through a
                        Presbyterian channel when there is sometimes a strong feeling against the name
                        we bear.16
               
                
            The fortunes of Congregationalism were dealt a heavy blow when Wilder left his field for 
                        Ohio
                     in 1839.17
            
            
               CONGREGATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS IN INDIANA, 1837–1858
               
                  Year formed
                  Name
               
               
                  1837
                  First Congregational Association of Indiana
               
               
                  1844
                  Evangelical Association of the 
                                Wabash
                             Valley (
                                Terre Haute
                             Association)
               
               
                  1855
                  Evangelical Association of Southern Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            
                  
               
               
                  1855
                  Association of Eastern Indiana
               
               
                  1858
                  Upper 
                                Wabash
                             Valley Association
               
               
                  1858
                  INDIANA CONFERENCE OF CONGREGATIONAL CHURCHES
               
            
            The 
                        Terre Haute
                     Church, founded December 30, 1834,18 did not immediately regard
                    itself as a Congregational church, since all seventeen of its charter members were Presbyterians.
                    The pastor, Mark A. Jewett, was a Methodist who hailed from 
                  
                     16 Moses H. Wilder, 
                                Bath
                            , Indiana, to Absalom Peters, 
                                New York
                            , July 31, 1837, in American Home Missionary Society Papers.
                  
                     17 Moses H. Wilder, 
                                Fairfield
                            , Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger and American Home Missionary Society secretaries, 
                                New York
                            , January 24, April 3, May 28, August 1, and December 10, 1838; Moses H. Wilder,
                            Batavia, Clermont County, 
                                Ohio
                            , to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                New York
                            , April 7, 1839; Samuel G. Lowry, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                New York
                            , August 8 and August 24, 1838; Ransom Hawley, Blooming-ton, Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                New York
                            , August 20, 1838. All these letters deal with the fortunes of the infant
                            Congregational churches and the First Congregational Association of Indiana.
                  
                     18 There was Presbyterian preaching in 
                                Terre Haute
                             before the organization of this independent church. J. R. Wheelock, grandson of
                            Professor Eleazer Wheelock of Dartmouth College fame, had removed there from 
                                Decatur
                             County in 1833 after experiencing "a spirit of persicution [sic] from Old School Presbyterians." "I was arraigned
                            before the Presbytery there," he said, "condemned for preaching New 
                                England
                             divinity—but the Synod reversed the sentence last Oct. While under
                            this cloud I removed to this place, & sustained myself & family by teaching
                            a Seminary here & what little I could get for preaching. Last April I gave up the
                            Seminary & now devote myself exclusively to my appropriate work as a minister. My
                            trial has produced a good effect on the cause of Truth in the State & I hope has in
                            some measure been sanctified to myself. This is an interesting place, large &
                            growing delightfully situated on the 
                                Wabash
                             where the Cumberland or National Road crosses—with a beautiful
                            prairie around it—but in a moral point of view every thing is the reverse. A
                            little feeble church & they divided, & without much moral
                            courage—the people generally enter-prizing, intelligent & bent on
                            pleasure & money making—disposed to do but little for the support of the
                            Gospel." J. R. Wheelock, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, to his cousins, the Misses Sarah, Ruth or Mary Patten Old Court House
                            Street, 
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., June 20, 1834. This letter is
               
                    
                    
                        Massachusetts
                    .19 Yet all favored Congregationalism20 and
                    supported the nearby undertakings of the American Home Missionary Society.21
            
            The church at 
                        Michigan
                     City in its beginnings was a Plan-of-Union church, consisting of nine members. It was
                    formed in May, 1835,22 by John Morrill, a Presbyterian minister who had
                    previously served under the American Home Missionary Society in southeastern Indiana, who later
                    formed the First Congregational Church of Rockford, 
                        Illinois
                     (1837), and still later organized other Congregational churches in the northern section
                    of that state. By 1841 internal dissensions between the Presbyterians and the Congregationalists had
                    virtually wrecked the church at "the City," but out of this struggle came a new
                    organization which gave the Congregationalists the autonomy they were seeking. By the end of the
                    1840's this was a strong church.23 The Western Congregational
                    Convention was held in its rooms in 1846.24
            
            Another Congregational church was organized by a band of New Englandem in 
                        Richmond
                    , early in 1835.25 So desperate was the struggle for survival,
                    however, that by 1839 the resources of the church were entirely exhausted and the few remaining
                    members joined the New School Presbyterian church formed meanwhile as the result of the schism in
                    the 
                  
                            in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana.
                            Following the excision of the four synods by the Presbyterian General Assembly in 1837,
                                Wheelock wrote of his feeling "a strong reaction in this section …
                                Scarcely a member of this Presby. (Craw-fordsville) can be found to advocate those
                                unprecedented proceedings. Many who were on the fence will henceforth be decided against
                                the measures of that immortal Assembly." J. R. Wheelock, 
                                    Greencastle
                                , Indiana, to Absalom Peters, 
                                    New York
                                , August 8, 1837.
                        
                  
                     19 Data supplied by Albert A. Faurot, Church Clerk. The letter is
                            filed in the 
                                Hammond
                             Library, 
                                Chicago
                             Theological Seminary, 
                        Chicago,
                                    Illinois
                     .
                  
                     20 Hyde, Congregationalism in Indiana,
                            27–29.
                  
                     21 Especially encouraged by the 
                                Terre Haute
                             people was the work of Dean Andrews, pastor of the Congregational church in
                            Marshall, 
                                Illinois
                            , a few miles distant.
                  
                     22 John Morrill, 
                                Michigan
                             City, Indiana, to Absalom Peters, 
                                New York
                            , February 10, 1836, in the American Home Missionary Society Papers.
                  
                     23 The letters of Erastus Colton cited previously.
                  
                     24
                            Minutes of the Western Congregational Convention, held at 
                                    Michigan
                                 City, Indiana, July 30—August 2, 1846 (
                                New York
                            , 1878).
                  
                     25 Application of the church to the American Home Missionary Society
                            Executive Committee, June 3, 1836; Peter Crocker, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, to Absalom Peters, 
                                New York
                            , October 12, 1836.
               
                     General Assembly. It was reliably reported that illness and
                    removals, the influence of the Baptists, the Presbyterians, and the Episcopalians (to say nothing of
                    the "godless remainder of the two thousand inhabitants" of 
                        Richmond
                    ) combined with the after-effects of the Panic of 1837 to snuff out the existence of
                    this promising Congregational organization.26
            
            Two churches were organized on the Plan of Union (Or-land and 
                        Ontario
                    , both being affiliated with the Presbytery of 
                        St. Joseph
                    ), in 1836 and 1840, respectively. The 
                        Ontario
                     church had become Congregational in 1843,27 and the Orland church
                    changed to the Congregational polity in 1842.28
            
            Four or five small Congregational churches flourished in the mid-1840's in the region about 
                        Terre Haute
                     and were under the pastoral care of Welton M. Modesitt. Among these were the churches
                    of Otter Creek with eighteen members and Lost Creek with thirteen members. There were preaching
                    stations at Numa, Cloverland, and other points where the average attendance was about fifty on the
                        Sabbath.29 These smaller churches were associated with the larger church of
                    Marshall, 
                        Illinois
                    , and the prosperous 
                        Terre Haute
                     congregation in a body known as the Evangelical Congregational Association of the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley, organized in 1844.30
            
            Two churches fully embracing the Congregational polity were organized in 1839, one in the town of
                    Boonville and the 
                  
                     26 Peter Crocker, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                New York
                            , April 13, 1839; Andrew W. Young, History of 
                                    Wayne
                                 County, Indiana (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1872), 407.
                  
                     27 MS Minutes, Presbytery of 
                                St. Joseph
                            , 158. (Courtesy of the Stated Clerk of the Synod of 
                                Michigan
                            , John Comin, Rackham Building, University of 
                        Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan
                     .)
                  
                     28 Jacob Patch, Orland, Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                New York
                            , February 28, 1848.
                  
                     29 Welton M. Modesitt, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, to Charles Hall, 
                                New York
                            , March 9, 1847.
                  
                     30 William W. Sweet, The Congregationalists (vol.
                            III of Religion on the American Frontier, 1783–1850, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1939), 22; George Punchard, Congregationalism in America (5
                            vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1881), 11, 274, mentions M. A. Jewett and Dean Andrews as prime movers in this
                            "useful and efficient organization," but gives no reference to documents
                            relating to the history of this body. The Congregational church of Marshall, 
                                Illinois
                            , adhered to this body in 1844. A. V. Gilbert, The First Congregational Church
                            of Marshall, 
                                Illinois
                            , a typewritten page filed in the 
                                Hammond
                             Library, 
                                Chicago
                             Theological Seminary, 
                        Chicago,
                                    Illinois
                     ; see also the
                            application of the German Congregational Church of 
                                Indianapolis
                             in behalf of the pastor, Charles Richle, a member of this body, to the American
                            Home Missionary Society Executive Committee, December 10, 1852.
               
                     other in 
                        Ohio
                     Township in 
                        Warrick
                     County.31 As late as 1844, it was reported that New Englanders were
                    still hesitant about entering southwestern Indiana. They were inclined to look down on the
                    inhabitants of that region as emigrants from the South and feared complications over contradictory
                    attitudes toward the slavery question. Calvin 
                        Butler
                    , the missionary, stated that he could stand in 
                        Warrick
                     County and look across seven contiguous counties in none of which had the American Home
                    Missionary Society stationed its appointees, except the county where he had been laboring seventeen
                    years. During his long stay in Boonville, 
                        Butler
                     noted great improvement in the cultural life of the people. Yet he imagined how a
                    pastor in his native 
                        Connecticut
                     might feel were he to cast his eyes over its lovely hills and valleys and realize that
                    he was alone in the service of Christ!32 A veteran Presbyterian minister, one of
                    the generation of the pioneers who had been present for the constitution of the Synod of Indiana in
                    1826, John McElroy Dickey, also toured southern Indiana in 1843 in the interest of the American Home
                    Missionary Society. He reported in great detail on the conditions, religious and otherwise, and his
                    findings support 
                        Butler
                    's.33
            
            After 1833, the belated growth of Congregationalism in Indiana was promoted alike by the laymen and
                    the ministers. With the exception of the churches in 
                        Warrick
                     County (which were always in a desperate economic condition), all the Indiana
                    Congregational churches organized previous to 1850 were organized by a few New 
                        England
                     families. The majority of the pastors of these churches had also been
                    Congregationalists in New 
                        England
                    . Whether they were Presbyterians or Congregationalists, however, all these pastors but
                    one (Jewett in 
                        Terre Haute
                    ) were sustained in the field by the American Home Missionary Society. This fact in
                    itself is proof that the Society was endeavoring to act impartially between these 
                  
                     31 Calvin 
                                Butler
                            , Boonville, Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                New York
                            , July 15, 1841. The total membership in both churches was only fifty.
                  
                     32 Calvin 
                                Butler
                            , Boonville, Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                New York
                            , September 8, 1841, April 1, July 8, October 18, 1842, October 7, 1844,
                            September 15, 1846, and May 24, 1847. Fear of the Catholics marks the last-noted letter.
                  
                     33 John M. Dickey, New 
                        Washington, Clark County
                     ,
                            Indiana, to 
                                Milton
                             Badger and Charles Hall, 
                                New York
                            , August 9, 1843: "I have thought for some time of continuing the
                            history of the churches in this state, but have been prevented for want of time. I think I
                            shall commence the work. I can write the history of each church I visit whilst I am in its
                            bounds." Dickey's two-volume unfinished manuscript, History of
                            Presbyterianism in Indiana, carrying the story down to 1847, may be seen at the Indiana
                            State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     two denominations. Yet it is also a fact that the organization
                    of all these churches was due to the progress of the revolt against the Plan of Union with the
                    Presbyterians, although here the revolt was less violent than it was in 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . With the organization of the earliest Indiana Congregational churches the slavery
                    question had little to do, but following the organization of the Free Synod of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1847 some Presbyterian churches in the eastern and northern counties of the state
                    united with that body or swung over to Congregationalism.34 Later, some Indiana
                    churches derived partial support for their ministers from the American Missionary Association.
                    Several of these men in July, 1855, organized a Congregational association in Jay and Adams
                    counties. There were seven places in this region where preaching was held regularly every two
                        weeks.35 This abolitionist association was given the support of the two
                    small Congregational churches of Buena Vista (
                        Randolph County
                    ) and 
                        Monroe
                     Township (
                        Adams County
                    ), in 1857.36
            
            The 
                        Plymouth
                     Congregational Church of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was organized in 1857. The first pastor of this thriving church was Nathaniel A.
                        Hyde.37 Soon there was a movement to set up a state-wide fellowship of the
                    Congregational ministers and churches, and this organization was consummated in 1858.38 It was not long until its life was dominated by clear-visioned, vigorous ministers,
                    Lyman Abbott among them. Although Indiana Congregationalism lacked both numbers and prospects,39 it did not fall behind other Western states either in the character of its
                    ministry or in the loyalty of its church members who, however, numbered less than a thousand in
                    1858.
            
               
                  34 James Boggs to David B. Coe, New Corydon, Indiana, August 5, 1852;
                        James Boggs to David B. Coe, LaPorte, Indiana, October 11, 1852. Boggs states that
                        "most antislavery members [of the churches and the presbyteries with which he was
                        acquainted] prefer Congregationalism to the Free Presbyterian Synod." He noted,
                        however, that some of the strongest Presbyterian groups were made up of Colonizationists even at
                        this late date. In the vicinity of New Corydon, Boggs found an ultra antislavery spirit, but at
                        LaPorte he found some Congregationalists among whom there was no ultra antislavery feeling.
               
                  35
                        American Missionary (10 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1846–1856), IX (September. 1855), 86.
               
                  36
                        American Missionary, second series (20 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1857–1876), I (July, 1857), 159.
               
                  37 Hyde, congregationalism in Indiana, 35–38.
               
                  38
                        Minutes of the General Association of Congregational Churches and Ministers of
                            Indiana, at its meeting in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , May 12, 1859, with an appendix (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1859), 3.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., 19–20.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            HOWARD H. PECKHAM
            
            The American Association for State and Local History held its annual meeting in 
                        Washington
                     in October. This is the same organization that met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     last year, In attendance from Indiana. were Howard H. Peckham, secretary of the Indiana
                    Historical Society, and Mrs. Grace Osterhus, of 
                        South Bend
                    , a director of the Northern Indiana Historical Society.
            The Association voted to inaugurate a quarterly magazine for history teachers, in co-operation with
                    Cornell University Press. This periodical is designed for national circulation among junior and
                    senior high school history teachers, to help them to do a more effective job of interesting their
                    students. Individual member dues in the Association were raised to $3, and institutional
                    memberships were pegged at $5. The Association is making a determined effort to raise
                    additional funds by selling higher classes of membership to individuals, local societies, and
                    corporations having historical interests. The goal of the Association is to employ a traveling
                    executive secretary who can help societies in each state become more active and effective.
            The Association has also instituted a system of awards to local historical societies for
                    distinguished activity each year. The society that has done most by way of providing good programs,
                    issuing publications, gaining members, leading the community in historical observances, etc., is
                    given a certificate of commendation. Another contest is open to newspapers, service clubs,
                    patriotic, and fraternal organizations for their historical activities. The country is divided into
                    five regions, and there are winners in each region. It should stimulate local historical societies
                    to know that their activities are watched by a national organization which stands ready to give them
                    recognition for their efforts. Indeed, the idea has suggested to the Indiana Historical Bureau the
                    desirability of instituting a statewide contest on a similar basis.
            The Association passed a resolution to submit to President Truman a request for declaration of a
                    National History Week, which would focus attention on the work of state and local historians once
                    each year.
            Dr. Carl E. Guthe, director of the 
                        New York
                     State Museum,  delivered a stimulating address on
                    local museums. Having inspected many of them, he is aware of their faults. He urged the adoption of
                    three policies. First, local museums should delimit their scope; that is, they should determine how
                    broad a field they will attempt to cover. Naturally, the history of their own community suggests
                    itself first. Then they should refuse materials pertaining to other parts of the world and even
                    non-historical gimcracks of their own area. Secondly, he advised "good
                    housekeeping"—the keeping of accurate accession records and catalogues and the
                    use of enough storage space so that everything is not on display at one time. Finally, he
                    recommended developing the community services of the museum, to schools, clubs, business firms, and
                    others.
            Other papers dealt with publicity practices of historical societies, acquiring and preserving
                    historical properties, and with folklore. The 1947 meeting of the Association will occur at 
                        Denver
                     next September.
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE INHABITANTS OF NEW HARMONY ACCORDING TO THE FEDERAL CENSUS OF 1850
            Elfrieda Lang
            The significant character and development of the community of 
                  New
                            Harmony, Posey County
               , Indiana, make
                    the following analysis of the population of the county and the names and census statistics of the
                    people of the township of general interest. The tables on 
                        Posey County
                     are included for their own value and to give background to the unusual conditions in 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            The statistics for the county indicate that the largest number of the people exclusive of Hoosiers
                    were natives of the Southern states and that there were more natives of 
                        Germany
                     than of New 
                        England
                     or of the Middle Atlantic States (see Table I).
            Because of the large percentage of adults from the Southern and Middle Atlantic states, and the age
                    (see Table III) and nativity of their children, one is led to believe that a considerable migration
                    from these sections to 
                        Posey County
                     took place in the early part of the nineteenth century. It is probably true that the
                    Germans who settled permanently in this region came in large numbers somewhat later. It might also
                    be suggested that previous to the birth of so many native Hoosiers, the Southerners formed the
                    largest element in the population. Perhaps they were in a majority. To what extent was the
                    population above the age of twenty in 1850 typical of the population in 1830 as respects
                    nativity? Although less than one per cent of the total population came from the New 
                        England
                     states, one may assume that some of the New Englanders migrated to this county early in
                    the century.
            The distribution of wealth (see Table 11) according to the valuation of real estate tends to confirm
                    the above conclusions. Although it does not seem likely that the natives of Southern states brought
                    much wealth with them, they held in 1850 approximately forty-three per cent of the total. Since they
                    formed less than nineteen per cent of the population, this would indicate a longer period of
                    residence. It is also interesting to note that the foreign element ranked  second with almost twenty-two per cent. Since they came later. to the
                    county, does this indicate that they brought relatively more with them or that they were more
                    thrifty 
                  TABLE I NATIVITY OF POPULATION OF POSEY COUNTY, INDIANA, ACCORDING TO TOWNSHIPS, 1850
                  By number, and percentage of total population
                  
                      
                     Bethel
                     Black
                     Harmony
                     Lynn
                     Marrs
                     Town of 
                                    Mt. Vernon
                                
                     
                     Point
                     Robb
                     Robinson
                     Smith
                     Total
                  
                  
                     States
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                  
                  
                     New England
                      
                      
                     18
                     .76
                     43
                     2.28
                     11
                     .90
                     3
                     .23
                     38
                     3.39
                     1
                     .21
                     2
                     .15
                     4
                     .25
                     1
                     .13
                     121
                     .98
                  
                  
                     Conn.
                      
                      
                     6
                      
                     16
                      
                     1
                      
                     2
                      
                     12
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     38
                      
                  
                  
                     Maine
                      
                      
                     0
                      
                     5
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     9
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     17
                     
                  
                  
                     Mass.
                      
                      
                     9
                      
                     9
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     11
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     32
                     
                  
                  
                     N.H.
                      
                      
                     2
                      
                     3
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     7
                     
                  
                  
                     R.I.
                      
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     5
                     
                  
                  
                     Vt.
                      
                      
                     1
                      
                     8
                      
                     8
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     21
                     
                  
                  
                     New Eng.
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                     
                      
                      
                      
                      
                     1
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                     l
                     
                  
                  
                     Middle Atlantic
                     5
                     1.31
                     151
                     6.35
                     69
                     3.66
                     57
                     4.66
                     38
                     2.89
                     84
                     7.50
                     30
                     6.24
                     34
                     2.47
                     39
                     2.41
                     15
                     1.96
                     522
                     4.16
                  
                  
                     Del.
                     0
                     
                     6
                     
                     2
                     
                     1
                     
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     5
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     18
                     
                  
                  
                     Md.
                     0
                     
                     10
                     
                     9
                     
                     8
                     
                     1
                      
                     8
                      
                     0
                      
                     6
                      
                     2
                      
                     3
                      
                     47
                     
                  
                  
                     N.J.
                     1
                     
                     37
                     
                     3
                     
                     4
                     
                     1
                      
                     8
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     2
                      
                     57
                     
                  
                  
                     N.Y.
                     1
                     
                     68
                     
                     12
                     
                     4
                     
                     7
                      
                     35
                      
                     5
                      
                     5
                      
                     7
                      
                     4
                      
                     148
                     
                  
                  
                     Penn.
                     3
                     
                     30
                     
                     43
                     
                     40
                     
                     28
                      
                     33
                      
                     20
                      
                     22
                      
                     28
                      
                     5
                      
                     252
                     
                  
                  
                     North Central
                     296
                     77.49
                     1621
                     68.22
                     1198
                     63.52
                     884
                     72.05
                     772
                     58.67
                     658
                     58.75
                     341
                     70.89
                     1005
                     73.04
                     916
                     56.58
                     556
                     72.68
                     8247
                     65.73
                  
                  
                     Ind.
                     267
                      
                     1489
                      
                     1091
                      
                     801
                      
                     718
                      
                     544
                      
                     263
                      
                     942
                      
                     883
                      
                     525
                      
                     7523
                     
                  
                  
                     Ill.
                     21
                      
                     67
                      
                     81
                      
                     40
                      
                     12
                      
                     31
                      
                     44
                      
                     41
                      
                     41
                      
                     15
                      
                     362
                     
                  
                  
                     Ia.
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                     
                  
                  
                     Mo.
                     1
                      
                     2
                      
                     4
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     6
                      
                     2
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     20
                     
                  
                  
                     Ohio
                     6
                      
                     62
                      
                     21
                      
                     40
                      
                     42
                      
                     77
                      
                     32
                      
                     21
                      
                     22
                      
                     15
                      
                     338
                     
                  
                  
                     Wis.
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                     
                  
                  
                     Southern
                     74
                     19.37
                     496
                     20.88
                     415
                     22.00
                     225
                     18.33
                     157
                     11.93
                     227
                     20.27
                     94
                     19.54
                     290
                     21.07
                     229
                     14.14
                     138
                     18.04
                     2945
                     18.68
                  
                  
                     Ala
                     1
                      
                     4
                      
                     2
                      
                     2
                      
                     1
                      
                     2
                      
                     3
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     17
                     
                  
                  
                     Ark.
                     0
                      
                     9
                      
                     3
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     4
                      
                     3
                      
                     2
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     24
                     
                  
                  
                     D.C.
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     3
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     3
                     
                  
                  
                     Ga.
                     1
                      
                     12
                      
                     9
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     4
                      
                     1
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     31
                     
                  
                  
                     Ky.
                     33
                      
                     146
                      
                     159
                      
                     56
                      
                     82
                      
                     138
                      
                     38
                      
                     168
                      
                     115
                      
                     79
                      
                     1014
                     
                  
                  
                     La.
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     4
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     7
                      
                     0
                      
                     3
                      
                     2
                      
                     0
                      
                     19
                     
                  
                  
                     Miss.
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     4
                      
                     0
                      
                     2
                      
                     1
                      
                     8
                     
                  
                  
                     N.C.
                     4
                      
                     124
                      
                     128
                      
                     84
                      
                     33
                      
                     21
                      
                     8
                      
                     50
                      
                     50
                      
                     18
                      
                     522
                     
                  
                  
                     S.C.
                     19
                      
                     11
                      
                     12
                      
                     8
                      
                     2
                      
                     3
                      
                     2
                      
                     26
                      
                     9
                      
                     9
                      
                     101
                     
                  
                  
                     Tenn.
                     9
                      
                     132
                      
                     57
                      
                     49
                      
                     20
                      
                     23
                      
                     24
                      
                     17
                      
                     26
                      
                     9
                      
                     366
                     
                  
                  
                     Texas
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                     
                  
                  
                     Va.
                     7
                      
                     55
                      
                     40
                      
                     24
                      
                     16
                      
                     26
                      
                     8
                      
                     23
                      
                     18
                      
                     22
                      
                     239
                     
                  
                  
                     Miss. River
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                     1
                     .07
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                     1
                     
                  
                  
                     Unknown
                     7
                     1.83
                     20
                     .84
                     6
                     .32
                     6
                     .49
                     11
                     .83
                     5
                     .45
                     9
                     1.87
                     5
                     .36
                     4
                     .25
                      
                      
                     73
                     .58
                  
                  
                     Foreign
                      
                      
                     70
                     2.95
                     155
                     8.22
                     44
                     3.59
                     334
                     25.38
                     108
                     9.64
                     6
                     1.25
                     40
                     2.91
                     427
                     26.37
                     55
                     7.19
                     1239
                     9.87
                  
                  
                     Canada
                      
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                     
                  
                  
                     England
                      
                      
                     36
                      
                     103
                      
                     13
                      
                     11
                      
                     13
                      
                     3
                      
                     4
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     184
                     
                  
                  
                     France
                      
                      
                     7
                      
                     14
                      
                     6
                      
                     11
                      
                     7
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     6
                      
                     1
                      
                     53
                     
                  
                  
                     Germany
                      
                      
                     14
                      
                     22
                      
                     6
                      
                     312
                      
                     59
                      
                     0
                      
                     27
                      
                     419
                      
                     53
                      
                     812
                     
                  
                  
                     Holland
                      
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     5
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     5
                     
                  
                  
                     India
                      
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     1
                     
                  
                  
                     Ireland
                      
                      
                     10
                      
                     8
                      
                     11
                      
                     0
                      
                     24
                      
                     3
                      
                     8
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     66
                  
                  
                     Scotland
                      
                      
                     1
                      
                     7
                      
                     3
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     11
                     
                  
                  
                     Switzerland
                      
                      
                     1
                      
                     1
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     4
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     0
                      
                     6
                     
                  
                  
                     Total
                     382
                      
                     2376
                      
                     1886
                      
                     1227
                      
                     1316
                      
                     1120
                      
                     481
                      
                     1376
                      
                     1619
                      
                     765
                      
                     12548
                     
                  
               
                     and successful. Harmony Township which is of particular
                    interest because of its background was the wealthiest township in the county in 1850.
            
            
               TABLE II REAL ESTATE VALUATION OF POSEY COUNTY, INDIANA ACCORDING TO TOWNSHIPS, 1850
               Property value as held by natives of the states and countries indicated
               
                  States
                  Bethel
                  Black
                  Harmony
                  Lynn
                  Marrs
                  Town of Mt. Vernon
                  Point
                  Robb
                  Robinson
                  Smith
                  Total
                  %
               
               
                  New England
                  $
                  $ 23,540
                  $ 22,006
                  $ 1,600
                  $
                  $ 33,800
                  $ 1,800
                  $
                  $ 4,000
                  $
                  $ 86,746
                  5,32
               
               
                  Conn.
                   
                  5,800
                  4,900
                   
                   
                  18,700
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maine
                   
                  
                  800
                  800
                  
                  3,000
                  1,800
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mass.
                   
                  16,240
                  ⋆15,250
                   
                   
                  1,600
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  N.H.
                   
                  1,500
                  456
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  R.I.
                   
                  
                  600
                   
                   
                  10,000
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Vt.
                   
                  
                   
                  800
                  
                  500
                   
                   
                  4,000
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic
                  1,700
                  33,850
                  21,480
                  21,965
                  2,020
                  20,450
                  6,000
                  16,050
                  6,775
                  6,700
                  136,990
                  8.40
               
               
                  Del.
                   
                  300
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Md.
                   
                  3,000
                  550
                  1,400
                  450
                  500
                   
                  4,000
                   
                  5,600
                   
                   
               
               
                  N.J.
                   
                  3,380
                  300
                  725
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1,500
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  N.Y.
                   
                  24,400
                  4,430
                  400
                  1,300
                  9,000
                   
                   
                  2,550
                  700
                   
                   
               
               
                  Penn.
                  1,700
                  2,770
                  16,200
                  19,440
                  270
                  10,950
                  6,000
                  12,060
                  2,725
                  400
                   
                   
               
               
                  North Central
                  7,190
                  84,490
                  42,030
                  32,870
                  23,475
                  39,475
                  15,030
                  45,450
                  23,055
                  32,610
                  345,675
                  21,20
               
               
                  Ind.
                  5,430
                  74,150
                  39,305
                  27,670
                  17,005
                  27,975
                  12,930
                  41,580
                  22,080
                  32,310
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ill.
                  1,360
                  1,140
                  2,100
                   
                   
                   
                  400
                  3,190
                   
                  300
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mo.
                   
                  
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  200
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ohio
                  400
                  9,200
                  625
                  5,200
                  6,470
                  11,500
                  1,700
                  480
                  975
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Southern
                  25,588
                  122,985
                  58,525
                  89,355
                  41,180
                  94,375
                  5,050
                  103,660
                  79,298
                  80,850
                  700,866
                  142,89
               
               
                  Ala.
                   
                  
                   
                  50
                  
                   
                   
                   
                  800
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ark.
                   
                  
                   
                  
                  100
                  2,500
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  D.C.
                   
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  2,500
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ga.
                  1,450
                  4,100
                  600
                   
                  1,250
                   
                  150
                  800
                  1,400
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ky.
                  6,518
                  38,840
                  13,685
                  36,370
                  25,980
                  69,650
                  4,100
                  62,175
                  27,273
                  41,580
                   
                   
               
               
                  La.
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  3,100
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  N.C.
                  1,000
                  36,350
                  27,850
                  30,800
                  9,800
                  4,925
                   
                  19,025
                  27,390
                  7,600
                   
                   
               
               
                  S.C.
                  13,080
                  6,400
                  5,650
                  2,000
                  
                   
                   
                  10,660
                  2,500
                  3,500
                   
                   
               
               
                  Tenn.
                  200
                  26,965
                  4,920
                  8,465
                  1,950
                  4,700
                   
                  2,200
                  8,100
                  2,450
                   
                   
               
               
                  Va.
                  3,340
                  10,330
                  5,820
                  11,670
                  2,100
                  9,500
                  800
                  8,800
                  11,835
                  25,720
                   
                   
               
               
                  Unknown
                  150
                  50
                   
                  
                  3,200
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  3,400
                  .21
               
               
                  Foreign
                   
                  12,800
                  148,525
                  2,440
                  65,461
                  49,757
                  5,600
                  7,450
                  59,059
                  5,250
                  356,742
                  21.88
               
               
                  England
                   
                  7,650
                  39,400
                  340
                  4,970
                  38,477
                  600
                  300
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  France
                   
                  750
                  13,450
                  600
                  3,140
                  1,400
                   
                  400
                  1,200
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Germany
                   
                  4,200
                  2,650
                   
                  57,351
                  7,130
                   
                  4,650
                  57,859
                  5,250
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ireland
                   
                  200
                  600
                   
                   
                   
                  5,000
                  2,100
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Scotland
                   
                  
                  ⋆⋆92,825
                  1,500
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Switzerland
                   
                  
                  
                   
                   
                  2,750
                   
                  
                  
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  Total
                  $ 34,628
                  $277,715
                  $292,966
                  $148,230
                  $135,336
                  $237,857
                  $ 33,480
                  $172,610
                  $172,187
                  $125,410
                  $1,630,419
                   
               
            
            
               ⋆ Includes William Pelham Estate of $10,000,
               ⋆⋆ Includes William Maclure Estate of $50,000.
            
            
            
            
               TABLE III AGE DISTRIBUTION IN 1850 OF THE PEOPLE OF POSEY COUNTY, INDIANA, ACCORDING TO PLACE
                        OF BIRTH
               
                   
                  New 
                                England
                            
                  
                  Middle Atlantic
                  North Central
                  Indiana⋆
                  Southern
                  Foreign
                  Unknown
                  Total
                  %
               
               
                  Below 1
                  0
                  2
                  470
                  462
                  1
                  2
                  0
                  475
                  3.78
               
               
                  1–4
                  1
                  9
                  1689
                  1629
                  35
                  35
                  0
                  1769
                  14.10
               
               
                  5–9
                  3
                  15
                  1710
                  1604
                  82
                  69
                  2
                  1881
                  15.00
               
               
                  10–14
                  4
                  46
                  1397
                  1275
                  89
                  97
                  7
                  1640
                  13.07
               
               
                  15–19
                  2
                  51
                  1061
                  946
                  145
                  93
                  1
                  1353
                  10.78
               
               
                  20–29
                  14
                  93
                  1381
                  1191
                  511
                  292
                  26
                  2517
                  18.47
               
               
                  30–39
                  30
                  97
                  473
                  3811
                  549
                  278
                  19
                  1446
                  11.52
               
               
                  40–49
                  27
                  90
                  59
                  31
                  446
                  179
                  10
                  811
                  6.46
               
               
                  50–59
                  24
                  67
                  6
                  4
                  286
                  125
                  5
                  513
                  4.09
               
               
                  60–69
                  10
                  26
                  0
                  0
                  135
                  56
                  
                  230
                  1.83
               
               
                  70–79
                  4
                  20
                  1
                  1
                  56
                  10
                  1
                  92
                  .73
               
               
                  80–89
                  2
                  6
                  0
                  0
                  8
                  3
                  0
                  19
                  .15
               
               
                  90–100
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  2
                  0
                  0
                  2
                  .02
               
               
                  Total
                  121
                  522
                  8247
                  7523
                  2345
                  1239
                  74
                  12548
                  
               
            
            
               ⋆ The figures listed under Indiana are included in the figures listed under the
                        North Central States.
            
            The so-called society of Harmony had its origin in Württemberg, from a schism in the
                    Lutheran church about the year 1785. One hundred and fifty families in 1804 under the guidance of
                    George Rapp, their pastor, emigrated to America and settled in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . After nine years in America, the society had acquired considerable wealth and wished
                    to find a more favorable location. Frederick Rapp, one of their members and an adopted son of George
                    Rapp, was sent on a tour of observation with instructions that a healthy site, good land, water
                    power, and convenient river communication were to be considered when making the choice. After
                    traveling for some months, he finally decided on the present site of 
                        New Harmony
                     and the adjoining country. The society sold their possessions in 1814 in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     for one hundred thousand dollars and emigrated to Harmonie, Indiana Territory, then a
                    wilderness. A tedious journey down the 
                        Ohio
                     and exposure to the inclemencies of the season caused much suffering and sickness, and
                    their number was reduced by death. Nothing, however, could prevent them from attaining an honest and
                    praiseworthy goal which they had set for themselves.1
            
            George Rapp and associates purchased their first land 
                  
                     1
                            
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, Gazette, October 1, 1825. Volumes I and II of the
                                Gazette are in the Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     of 2,435 acres in 
                        Posey County
                     on May 9, 1814. Five thousand three hundred and seventy additional acres were purchased
                    during the remaining months of 1814. In the next year 4,319 acres were purchased, and in 1816 and
                    1817 Frederick Rapp purchased 1,920 acres. Land was also purchased in the adjoining counties of
                    Gibson and 
                        Pike
                     in Indiana and White County in 
                        Illinois
                    . After ten years in Indiana, the Rappites moved back to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Frederick Rapp, to whom was given the power of attorney, sold for George Rapp and
                    associates to Robert Owen approximately twenty thousand acres of land as well as buildings and
                    improvements on December 10, 1825, for $125,000. Over 7,400 acres were sold to William
                    Maclure on March 1, 1830, for eleven thousand dollars. The Deed Record Book of 
                        Posey County
                     indicates that smaller sales were made to other individuals.2
            
            
                    Thus we see a body of people [Rappites]—strangers to our country,—ignorant
                        of our language—unaccustomed to our modes of agriculture—imperfect
                        mechanics, and worse manufacturers—through the mere advantage of cooperative
                        industry, acquiring unrivalled skill, enjoying the comforts of life, and out-stripping the
                        computation of extravagant calculators in the acquisition of wealth.
                    It is a fact worthy of record, and one that should be well considered by the political economists
                        of a free, and enlightened republic, that in 1804, the whole property of this people did not
                        exceed 25 dollars per head; in 1825, a fair estimate gave them 2500 dollars each person, man,
                        woman, and child:—an instance of accumulation in the laborious professions, to which
                        history does not afford a parallel.3
               
                
            Richard Flower, who had been commissioned by George Rapp to sell the large Harmonist estate, came to
                    Braxfield to visit Robert Owen at a time when he was disappointed in a number of his plans. Flower
                    suggested Harmonie as a possible site for Owen to put into practical operation his plans for
                    communistic colonization which he had publicly advocated for sometime. Robert Dale Owen states,
                    "The offer tempted my father. Here was a village ready built, a territory capable of
                    supporting tens of thousands in a country where the expression of thought was free, and where the
                    people were unsophisticated. I listened with delight to Mr. Flower's account of a frontier
                    life; and when, one morning, 
                  
                     2 Government Original Entry Book, 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana, 33–41; Deed Record Book D, 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana, 206–214, 310–311; and Deed Record Book G, 
                                Posey County
                            , Indiana, 241, 294–296. These records are in the courthouse at 
                                Mt. Vernon
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     3
                            
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, Gazette, October 1, 1825.
               
                     my father asked me, ‘Well, Robert, what say
                    you—New Lanark or Harmony?’ I answered, without hesitation,
                    ‘Harmony.’ " Flower could not conceal his amazement when he
                    discovered Owen was interested in Harmonie.4
            
            Owen purchased approximately twenty thousand acres from the Rappites and entertained great hopes of
                    putting his plan for communistic colonization into operation. He delivered an address on April 27,
                    1825, at 
                        New Harmony
                    , and the constitution of the preliminary society founded on May 1, 1825, was
                        published.5
            
            A number of outstanding individuals were attracted to 
                        New Harmony
                     and on January 26, 1826, Thomas Say, William Maclure, and Charles Leseuer arrived from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to make their future home in Indiana.6 From time to time other
                    important people arrived, but Owen failed to achieve his goal. His son Robert Dale said: "I
                    do not believe that any industrial experiment can succeed which proposes equal remuneration to all
                    men., the diligent and the dilatory, the skilled artisan and the common laborer, the genius and the
                        drudge."7 An article by "An 
                        Illinois
                     Farmer" predicted that a society founded on Robert Owen's principles
                    would be a failure.8
            
            Both Rapp and Owen made an imprint on 
                        New Harmony
                     which, no doubt, not even time will be able to erase. Because of the very interesting
                    character of the population of Harmony Township, the names of its settlers in 1850 are being
                    published.
            There were a number of interesting and important people living in Harmony Township at the time of the
                    1850 census. A few of these may be noted. No doubt, others who were equally important are omitted,
                    but it is not possible to mention all.
            
               
                  4 Robert Dale Owen, Twenty-seven Years of Autobiography.
                            Threading My Way. (
                            New York
                        , 1874), 239–241; Robert Dale Owen, "The Social Experiment At 
                            New Harmony
                        ," Atlantic Monthly (
                            Boston
                        , 1857-), XXXII (1873), 224–225. The autobiography of Robert Dale Owen
                        was published in the Atlantic Monthly in 1873, volumes XXXI and XXXII. The
                        paper entitled "A Chapter of Autobiography" appears as "My
                        Ancesto;;," in Threading My Way. Two papers "At Braxfield
                        and in 
                            London
                        , and "Close of the Tentative Years," did not appear in the Atlantic Monthly.
               
                  5
                        
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana, Gazette, October 1, 1825.
               
                  6
                  Ibid., February 15, 1826.
               
                  7 Owen, Threading My Way, 290; Robert Dale Owen,
                        "My Experience of Community Life," Atlantic Monthly, XXXII,
                        344.
               
                  8
                        
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana, Gezette, October 29, 1825.
            
            
            David D. and Robert D. Owen sons of Robert Owen and his daughter Jane Dale Owen Fauntleroy from 
                        Scotland
                     added color to the life of 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1850. George Flower, who accompanied Morris Birkbeck in 1817 to Edwards County, 
                        Illinois
                    ; Prudence Birkbeck Ford, granddaughter of Morris Birkbeck; Thomas Mumford appointed by
                    William Maclure and Mme. Fretageot to superintend one of the departments of the industrial school;
                    and William Twigg, an outstanding lawyer, were among the English who settled in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Francis J. N. Neef, born in Alsace, was outstanding for the promotion of
                    Pestalozzi's methods in America. It has been stated that he published the first strictly
                    pedagogical work in America. Josiah Mann, who was born in 
                        New York
                     a first cousin of Horace Mann, was a prominent physician who is best remembered for his
                    untiring services during the cholera epidemic in 1873. His three daughters married into the Owen
                    family. Several Frenchmen also settled in this community. As early as 1824, Achilles Fretageot
                    accompanied his teacher to America and eventually came to 
                        New Harmony
                    . John Ribeyre was sent by the French government in 1848 to buy mules, but instead
                    bought over twenty-seven hundred acres of land in Harmony Township. Edward Murphy, a friendless and
                    barefooted Irish boy, came to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1826 to find shelter. In appreciation of what the town did for him, he left large
                    sums of money for the library and established a park. Edward T. Cox, a Virginian, who became the
                    state geologist in 1869 spent many years in 
                        New Harmony
                    .9
            
            In submitting the names of the free inhabitants of Harmony Township in 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana, for 1850, no corrections in spelling have been made. Columns 1, 2, and 13
                    have been omitted. Column 1 pertains to dwelling houses numbered in the order of visitation, of
                    which there were 339. Column 2 pertains to families numbered in the order of visitation, of which
                    there were 354. Column 13 indicates those who were deaf and dumb, blind, insane, idiotic, pauper, or
                    convict. There were two inhabitants deaf and dumb, one idiotic, and one blind.
            
               
                  9 Biographical card file in the Library of the Workingmen's
                        Institute, 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana; Personal interviews with Mary Emily Fauntleroy on September 21, 1946, and
                        Mrs. Jacob C. Miller, niece of Alfred Ribeyre, on October 19, 1946, both of 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               TABLE IV10 SCHEDULE I.—Free Inhabitants in Harmony Township in
                        the County of Posey State of Indiana enumerated [from August 12, to August 22, 18501, by D. M.
                        Schnee, Ass't Marshal
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Benjamin B. Neal
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1050
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Indiana "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Laura "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Julia "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sydny
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John Flora
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Saml Wilsey
                  18
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jesse M. Neal
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  700
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha Ann "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas J. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Travers
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Helen
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Nathan Wilkis
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Abraham Rominen
                  18
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm Robinson
                  23
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Hiram L. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Mentle
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Orisa
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John Wilsey
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Pamelia "
                  39
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph Woods
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Unknown
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lavinia "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lavinia "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jacob
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Green
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ephraim "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  6/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Abraham Woods
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alexr. Varner
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha Varner
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James M. "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jacob D. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm E.
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
               
                  10 Original Returns of the Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Posey County
                        , Indiana (microfilm in the Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana).
                     THE LEGEND FOR THE COLUMNS PRINTED IN TABLE IV
                     3—The name of every person whose usual place of abode on the first day of
                                June, 1850, was in this family.
                     4—Age.
                     5—Sex.
                     6—Color—white, black, or mulatto.
                     7—Profession, occupation, or trade of each male person over 15 years of
                                age.
                     8—Value of real estate owned.
                     9—Place of birth, naming the state, territory, or country.
                     10—Married within the year.
                     11—Attended school within the year.
                     12—Persons over 20 ears of aze who cannot read and write.
                  
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Peter Pendleton
                  60
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lueinda "
                  48
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  James "
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  David "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harriet "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Presley Carr
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
               
               
                  Milajah "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John W. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel H. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  
               
               
                  Hugh J. Walker
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  60
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  James Cox
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Samuel "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucy Ann "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edward "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Green Cox
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jacob Mentle
                  70
                  M
                   
                  Painter
                   
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amelia "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George W. Cowles
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Elliott
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  3000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  4 0
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin Peeler
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Ann "
                  38
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Benjamin "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Unknown
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Chawcraft
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harriet "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harriet Holt
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Sibley
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Warren
                  21
                  M
                   
                  
                            
                                Warren
                            
                        
                   
                  Indiana
                  1
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lucretia "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Endicoll
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Orvis Endicott
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  5/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph S. Endicott
                  54
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  2000
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  52
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Samuel "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilmot "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  America "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martin V. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Endicott
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alexander Driskell
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Steam Engineer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin Nottingham
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah. J. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Allen Gentry
                  50
                  M
                   
                  Shoemaker
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa A. "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Pleasant N. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James A. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Abner Wilkins
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  George James
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Louisiana
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Gibbs
                  26
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Serilda "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Henry "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Levi Cross
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy J. "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alfred Harrison
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  150
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susannah "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mundalia "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  
                     
                                Alabama
                             "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elvira "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Desdamona "
                  11/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Norrester
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harman Gibbs
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lavina Cibbs
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Lamar
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Robert "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Yant
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Jesse Thrailkill
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Labnrer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Polly "
                  39
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Levi "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Amaline "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Smith
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia Ann
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Benjamin F. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jackson "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James S. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William R. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane Rogers
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                  2100
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  38
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Robinsam
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Jane Rogers
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elihu Robinson
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William White
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Rogers
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1540
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nathaniel "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  David Chancellor
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Isaih Nelson
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Armstead Hungate
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Polliy Ann
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  America "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Zachariah "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles "
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  E. H. Hall
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Mississippi
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John W. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Arthur Lockhart
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William Stilwell
                  62
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1500
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha Stilwell
                  49
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                South Carolina
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Phebe Ann "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  William S. "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Scoolteacher
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph P. "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Clark D. "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Margaret J. "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Alexander F. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Frederick Schack
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  600
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Green Stilwell
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sancy "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Angeline "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  3/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine Miller
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Donaldson
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. Hanning
                  58
                  F
                   
                   
                  400
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  39
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Amanda "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Joseph Cox
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  41
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha A. Alsop
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             Cox
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary E. "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Jane "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James H. "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John H. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Harriet "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Alsop
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harrison Cox
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William M. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isaac Anderson
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elenar Anderson
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elijah "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William J. "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elisha "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Chancellor
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  George "
                  18
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John S. Axton
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Eliza A. "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Nancy E. "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  S
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Matilda "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Orijane "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Axton
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lucy A. "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Enock "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Orajane "
                  S
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Polly "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John A. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  3/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James M. "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John D. Move
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  700
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Jane "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza E. "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan J. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Enock Axton
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret"
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Charlotte G. "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth A. "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah J."
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas J."
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Penelope "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isaam "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Addison "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Thomas Owens
                  73
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  68
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Rachael C. Givens
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elijah Anderson
                  57
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eleneor "
                  58
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin "
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  600
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Thomas Stalling
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Heziah Stalling
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Bryant 
                                Butler
                            
                  
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Jemima "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Enock J. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Larken "
                  6/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  60
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Berry Stallings
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Susan "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Shadroch "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  1/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Shadrock "
                  70
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1500
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Jane "
                  60
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lowry Trammel
                  13
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emanuel Rhein
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  400
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Anna Catharine "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Theodore "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary M. "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel Sarnas "
                  53
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Charity "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Polly "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Francis M. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane Yant "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia A. Yant "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Hunter "
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  420
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy J. "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John L. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles W. Hose
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Wagon Maker
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  David Chancellor
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Minona "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Morgan "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ira "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Levi Chancellor
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George Hope
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth Daniels
                  59
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Enock 
                                Hancock
                            
                  
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Wagon Maker
                  160
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Laura "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Almon
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  250
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Joney "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
               
               
                  James DeWitt
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John Williams
                  55
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  48
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  S. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Pamelia "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William H. "
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mitty Anne "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Felix "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nathaniel "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charlotte "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Magnus S. Carnahan
                  46
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  900
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matilda "
                  46
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James H. "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa M. "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah H. "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  B. Samuel "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth Doyle
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                  400
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna M. "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  J. Magnus "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles H. "
                  10/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Benjamin 
                                Hancock
                            
                  
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  
                     
                                Jordan
                             "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Susan "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Urban "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martha J. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Hancock
                  83
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John Hancock Jr.
                  22
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                  1
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Stephen 
                                Butler
                            
                  
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1280
                  N. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James H. Cox
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry Butler
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary M. "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John M. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Trueman Johnson
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1280
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Judson "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Delia "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Jasper
                             "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Laura "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Trueman "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Cornelia "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lela M. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna Hill
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Patsy "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Pennelope Stallings
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Nero "
                  76
                  M
                   
                  B Broom Maker
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elia Kem Anderson
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  640
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Louis "
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Oliver "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William S. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jefferson "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elihu Cox
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  22
                  F
                   
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Susan 
                                Butler
                            
                  
                  60
                  F
                   
                   
                  1280
                  N. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sherwood "
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  St. Clair M. "
                  31
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ruth Upshaw
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Alabama
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John E. Williams
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mahala "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jesse Nash
                  48
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1200
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  48
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John C. "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel "
                  16
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Rebecca "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Overtoil
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  3500
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Christine "
                  38
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel E. E. "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martha M. "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Frances E. "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Freelove C. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Christine J. "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nelson G. N. "
                  8/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jeremiah Overton
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Cynthia "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Barthenia "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James W. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Andrew Stallings
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  960
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Hannah "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William W. "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elenior "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John M. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elijah W. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel Endicott
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  300
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  49
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louis "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Amanda "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Olivia "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  John T. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  John A. Bailey
                  44
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  Cynthia "
                  43
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  James "
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Schoolteacher
                   
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Larkin "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  Benjamin "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elijah "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elisha "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilson "
                  9/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Winny Cantrell
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline Schnee
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                  2500
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Henry "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  4
                  P
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilhelmina Schnee
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ellen Johnson
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  David White
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Gellert Schnee
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  1400
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane Maples
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Pleasant "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Travel's
                  72
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  500
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  62
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  J. Elizabeth "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Moses Johnson
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Herbert Stallings
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Cynthia Johnson
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Susannah "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Thomas J. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Dicy "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William Stallings
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry C. "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James L. "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  George W. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Leander "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elias Johnson
                  60
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elias "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles Purcell
                  58
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia A. "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Patsey 
                                Randolph
                            
                  
                  57
                  F
                   
                   
                  1120
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William T. "
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Gamble
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harriet Webster
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Peter Kirkendall
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas 
                                Randolph
                            
                  
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rebecca "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isaac "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles 
                                Randolph
                            
                  
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Marcus "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Z. Taylor
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Miller
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles Pitcher
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Endicott
                  53
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  54
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Laurinda "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Artamasa "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilmet "
                  75
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel Endicott
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William F. Endicott
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Rosanna "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Zephenia "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Roseana "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  William F. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jonathan Kight
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William A. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilmet Phillips
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Amanda "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Estes
                  55
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  49
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Grant
                  52
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Cynthia "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amanda C. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Nancy S. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William F.
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Darcus McIntyre
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Asburry "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Wm Mclntyre
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Marian "
                  16
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lerinda "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Melinda J. "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Green Eaton
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James H. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John W. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Tabitha McReynolds
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Unknown
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Vardiman Estes
                  45
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Fanny "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Bartly "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Fielden "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  8/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Estes
                  51
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Asbury Varner
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  650
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Clinton "
                  1/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Zachariah Williams
                  55
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  51
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Annaria "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John W. "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Talbot Williams
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Wilmet "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Johnson
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Martha "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Johnson
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  925
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Susannah "
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Lueinda "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Sylvester "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Wm. M. "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Marcus "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James H. Johnson
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Pruett
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alfred Stallings
                  39
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  300
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah J. "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Aaron L. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia A. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Moses Stallings
                  60
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Minerva "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Harriet "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  G
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Albert "
                  10/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Prances Hodkins
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                  200
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Daniel M. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John W. Cornick
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1200
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Julia A. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Wm F. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha J. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Shepherd
                  56
                  F
                   
                   
                  500
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lyman Dayman
                  50
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  300
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lydia "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Erastus "
                  16
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Leonia "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Narcissa "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Clayton "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Aurola Rogers
                  56
                  F
                   
                   
                  840
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James C. "
                  30
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Shepherd
                  18
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Stallings
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  600
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maria "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy J. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jesse Edwards
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  600
                  N. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth J. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Cornelius Edwards
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jesse L. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah C. "
                  4/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elias Edwards
                  76
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sinah "
                  78
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susannah Purcell
                  29
                  F
                   
                   
                  500
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Frederick K. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Charles L. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elisha Graddy
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  250
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joel "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joel Hume
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Malinda "
                  46
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia A. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Rachael M. "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Joel C. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Charles Graddy
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cassander "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Graddy
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  250
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy L. "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Charles S. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John W. Taylor
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Anna A. "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary M. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Wisconsin
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alice L. "
                  2/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ephraim Hackett
                  75
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  57
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  George "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Pritchard
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Susanah "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Richard Graddy
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  250
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elisha L. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary E. "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George W. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frederick Graddy
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Burtram "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ephraim Edwards
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  400
                  N. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  53
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  N. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Edward "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eltha A. "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Z. Muckleroy
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Epsy "
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Hannah "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amelia "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucy "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Helen "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jincey Anderson
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  
                     
                                Fountain
                             Nance
                  39
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  500
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Artamasa "
                  7/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Varner
                  57
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  20
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rebecca "
                  54
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maria "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Edward Homer
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Helen "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rachael "
                  1/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Presley Cartright
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  1000
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lidia M. "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John W. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Vincent M. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robert F.
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas F. "
                  2/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane Cartright
                  62
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Jason Jones
                  66
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Nancy
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Horace "
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah J. "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Macdonald
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James Owen
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  250
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elzania Owen
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lydia E. "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John W. "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Flavias "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Josiah "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  5/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Moye
                  67
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  N. Carolina
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alice "
                  61
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph J. Moye
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George T. "
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robert Moye
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucretia "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Lockridge
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy J. "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wyatt Moye
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  600
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James H. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John C. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Prettyman Marvel
                  83
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Deleware
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lavinia "
                  79
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Deleware
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  George Marvel
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1150
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah H. "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Zenith E. "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Prettyman E. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John R. "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Wiley H. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William T. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Edward "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  6/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Moye
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1200
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Esther "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alice J. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza A. "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph D. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph Cox
                  59
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  500
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Cox
                  57
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Stinson "
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jackson "
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin Cox
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Melvina "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William J. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George W. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Brown
                  50
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Clarissa "
                  47
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann Maria "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Clarissa A. "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James B. "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Garrison Pett
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  George Cox
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  250
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Serena "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah B. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Howard "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elijah Cox
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  640
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Silus "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Allen "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Thomas J. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Isaac C. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elijah J. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John P. "
                  2/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cavit Nash
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  2400
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah J. "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jesse W. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jeremiah "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mark S. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  75
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Meredith Pruett
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Hunter
                  56
                  F
                   
                   
                  3500
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Augustus "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Virgil M. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jesse C. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Stallings
                  52
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1800
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Robert "
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Caroline Hunter
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Benjamin Stallings
                  18
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Alexander "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sephania "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Washington
                             "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Leander "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph Cox
                  31
                  W
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  William J. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Andrew Nash
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  2600
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia A. "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza J. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William C. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary E. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George W. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John A. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Gibbs
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                  
               
               
                  Sandy Walker
                  37
                  M
                  M
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Duana "
                  37
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Amanda "
                  15
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Talitha "
                  14
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George "
                  9
                  M
                  M
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Melissa Ann "
                  5
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mina "
                  2/12
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Martha Owens
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                  960
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Monterville "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Nancy M. "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amelia "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Cartright
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                  640
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Albert "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George W. "
                  8/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amelia Owens
                  69
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amelia Haycuff
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William H. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Andrew Fisher
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Silus "
                  R
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  David M. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Nottingham
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Hartly
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard E. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Nottingham
                  7/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ansolem "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isaac Baker
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Theodore "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Enima "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Macdonald "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizada "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza J. "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Andrew Sheffler
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  350
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maria "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Andrew "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Furguson
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Esther A. "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Furguson
                  60
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  2500
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  59
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Aaron "
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Clarence Fisher
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Theodore "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Hannah Snell
                  67
                  F
                   
                   
                  400
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Minney
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  550
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah Minney
                  42
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. Beale
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Sarah A. Minney
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Robert Manchard
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Louisiana
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Edward Beale
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Vandiver
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Teamster
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Matilda "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William F. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Adkins "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Theodore "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Martha Upshaw
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Alabama
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Georgia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Willy Edwards
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  3700
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Rachael E. "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Maria C. "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lemuel C. "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William D. "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eliza J. "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John N. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James W. "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jesse S. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia J. "
                  5
                  M
                  [sic]
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Robinson
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1400
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilhelmina "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Oliver "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Shepherd
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm H. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James A. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Minerva Caleb
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Hardy
                  57
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lucy "
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lucy M. "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Hardy
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas B. "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Williamson "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Arkansas
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William M. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary L. "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alfred Hardy
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James W. "
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frorney Lewis
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Scoolteacher
                  250
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Anna "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James T. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edmund Dowries
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jinetta "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Orman
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Aaron "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James M. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George "
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elial Hardy
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Martha "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard B.
                  1/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Erastus Clark
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John R. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Shadrick Downes
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Ann "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William D. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy C. "
                  1/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Howell Downes
                  60
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  500
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  57
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Miranda "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John W. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  George W. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Reding Downes
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Downes
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James E. "
                  1/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  S. W. H. Miller
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Scoolteacher
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Pamelia Aldridge
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harriet "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eldarado "
                  1/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Herbert Wallace
                  39
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Polly Ann "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Rachael "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  David "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jesse Wells
                  56
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  640
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  51
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph A. "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Phebe C. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Sarah S. "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John F. Allison
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Stallion Keeper
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Richards
                  60
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1600
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  
                     
                                Jordan
                             "
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cordelia "
                  2/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joshua Richards
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  250
                  N. Carolina
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  Polly "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                  1
                   
                  
               
               
                  Eli Evans
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Fanny "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Albert "
                  2/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rosa Cunningham
                  62
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Martha E. "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel Harris
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  320
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rosa "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah Harris
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  George S. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Milton
                             Fillingim
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1760
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lytle Wiley
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  George Wiley
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Samuel "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Esther Fillingim
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Knock "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alexander Hall
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Osborn Richards
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm R. Richards
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ansil Phillips
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Robert L. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elijah "
                  5/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Reason Gentry
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1120
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Klizabeth "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Julia "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Pleasant "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George White
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Henry Thurston
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Abraham Pentold
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Klizabeth "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Abraham "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Clayton
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                  50
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emma "
                  29
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Peter "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Anne "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary K. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rosa A. Beat
                  42
                  F
                   
                   
                  250
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline Lichtenberger
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alice Lichtenberger
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  2/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Camma Johnson
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rachael "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Virgil "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Anna "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Asadan "
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Endicott
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Moses "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Orvill "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Klmira "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alexander "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Parker Eastman
                  45
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  42
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Crumb
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Hermina Eastman
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Albert "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Knock Lambert
                  57
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maria "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte Chaffe
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                  256
                  N. Hampshire
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  K. W. "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Delia Collins
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Victor "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Hiram McCoin
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Julia Ann Evans
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nicholas Knock
                  54
                  M
                   
                  Farmer Carpenter
                  500
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Hannah "
                  48
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Peter "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Hannah "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Richard Harris
                  43
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Martha "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth Harris
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  George T. "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William A. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James T. "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Minerva "
                  4/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Knock
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer & Carpenter
                   
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Georgia
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  James E. Wells
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary E. "
                  4/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Hill
                  49
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Percilia "
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Lazarus "
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Christopher "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jefferson Hamilton
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Farmers Carpenter
                  640
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rhoda "
                  41
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Wilkerson
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Josiah "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry White
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                  1
               
               
                  Susannah "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nicy Mabley
                  65
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Noah "
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Susannah White
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  David "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Westly M. "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Andrew J. "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Henry McDonald
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elisha Taylor
                  49
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Bazilla "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rachael "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Turner "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nicy "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Jordan
                             "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  5
                  F
                   
               
               
                  John W. Taylor
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan A. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William F. Bundy
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Christopher "
                  15
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Amanda "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William H. "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Mary Ann
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lucy G. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Charles S. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha Ann "
                  1/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Moses Endicott
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Kichard "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Camma "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jesse "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha J. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucy Rowe
                  39
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Florence "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edmund Sweeney
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Matilda "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  David Wilsey "
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  600
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Anna E. "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Walter "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Miles "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William Banton "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy A. "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan Woodall "
                  53
                  F
                   
                   
                  600
                  
                            
                                Georgia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John G. "
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Charles "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Paskel M. "
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel Woodall
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Georgia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha A. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard C. Hanks
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James White
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Hannah "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wyatt Coleman
                  56
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  47
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lavinia E. "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary Jane "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha S. "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sophia Ann "
                  2/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane Lichtenberger
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                  300
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George K. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Peter W. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Augustus W. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard M. "
                  7/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Cooper
                  55
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  5000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Klizabeth "
                  50
                  F
                   
                  (William Pelham Estate John Cooper Agent)
                  10000
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Horatio C. "
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Attorney
                  200
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Student of Medicine
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John K. Hugo
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  1800
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alonzo
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  William H. H. "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jane J. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Anna "
                  6/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William P. Callonrey
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  39
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry W. Ivens
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George J. Beal
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Beal
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  150
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Colombine G. "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eugene "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Snell
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Ferryman
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jonathan "
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Applegate
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Saw Mill
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Macila
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edith
                  9/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rosannah Lichteberger
                  66
                  F
                   
                   
                  300
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rosannah "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                  75
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Washington
                             "
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Saw Mill
                  4000
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Lafayette
                             "
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Saw Mill
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Schnee
                  45
                  M
                   
                  Saw Mill
                  400
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  39
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ines E. "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Randall
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Adelia "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alder "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emery "
                  9/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Armin Lyons
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah J. "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Robert
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine Hunter
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                  300
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ida "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann Vanway
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  L. J. Bozeman
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Grocery Keeper
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Julia "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cordelia "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  E. J. Rogers
                  48
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  2000
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cecillia "
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cecelia "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Henry Hayward
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lydia Williams
                  42
                  F
                   
                   
                  300
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Butcher
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Wheatcroft
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  900
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann Wheatcroft
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  George "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Dranslield
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Sadler
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph M. Cwory
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Peter Duelos
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Magistrate
                  300
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isadore "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  1/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel Arthur
                  53
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  7000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  57
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Read
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard Anderson
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Achilles Fretageot
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  2800
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cecilia "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alexander "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Achilles "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eugene "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Oliver "
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Aaron Lichtenberger
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Mill & Distillery
                  2800
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Fredonia "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Celia "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lawrence "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Family J. "
                  9/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Celia Woodall
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Bruner
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Clarence "
                  16
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Klizabeth Hall
                  58
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Plasterer
                  125
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frank "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Plasterer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Leandra "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robert D. Owen
                  48
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  17000
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary J. "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Florence D. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Julian D. "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Rosamond D. "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ernest D. "
                  1/12
                  F
                  [sic]
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary F. Owen
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                  5000
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy Henderson
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Emma "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jane D. Fauntleroy
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                  8000
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Constance "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eleneor "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Edward "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Arthur "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Marjorie
                  57
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary Swift
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                  900
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Allen Corbin
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James L. Swift
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Trader
                  1200
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Marlha "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Phebe Ann "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James H. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  5/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel Humphrey
                  55
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  600
                  
                            
                                Rhode Island
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Rhode Island
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             Middleton
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Mills
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alonzo "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mina "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Grant
                  49
                  F
                   
                   
                  500
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Redorina "
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah J. "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Phebe Anne "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  George "
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Grant
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Collin "
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John White
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Johnson
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Bruner
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jeoffry Pearl
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  500
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emeline "
                  46
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sephronia Wiley
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary M. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Miles G. "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ernest L. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Maurice B. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Albert B. Wiley
                  11/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Walton
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  6/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Coombs
                  53
                  F
                   
                   
                  200
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Shoemaker
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Posey "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  G. Berry Simpson
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Clock Pedlar
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  29
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William H. "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rhoda
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily D.
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alfred Clark
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Dyer
                   
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph F. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edward E. "
                  8/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  L. D. Stoker
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Grocery Keeper
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Delia "
                  3/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Robinson
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Tailor
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Fanny "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Craddock
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  300
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Cowgill
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Pendleton
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret A. "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Francis "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa Evans
                  43
                  F
                   
                   
                  600
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph Neef
                  80
                  M
                   
                  Author of Neef's Essays
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             Crew
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John Woodham
                  51
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  700
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ann "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary Woodham
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John Burton
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                  600
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  David D. Owen
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Chemist & Geologist
                  9825
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline C. "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alfred D. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Anna M. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William H. "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nina "
                  3/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucinda 
                                Florida
                            
                  
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William A. Twigg
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Judge & Postmaster
                  1000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             "
                  44
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles A. "
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Eliza J. "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William A. "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Augustus G. "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  R. Dejalmah "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edward T. Cox
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                  600
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza A. "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  L. F. "
                  2/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Goad
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Sampson
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  4500
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  40
                  F
                   
                  (William Maclure
                  50000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte M. "
                  18
                  F
                   
                  Estate- James
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary W.
                  15
                  F
                   
                  Sampson Agent)
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Victor Duclos
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  1500
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John C. "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine A. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Collin "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Enock Snelling
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Cabinet Maker
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan A. "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elliott "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Daniel McIntyre
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Minister
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James J. "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Councilman "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edwin C. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary J. White
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  George Flower
                  64
                  M
                   
                  Inn Keeper
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza J. "
                  60
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Inn Keeper
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin Flowers
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Hoover
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard Owen
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Naturalist
                  8000
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eugene "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Horace "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lyman D. Stiekneys
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Attorney at Law
                   
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  E. Jane "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucine "
                  9/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frank Shumard
                  25
                  M
                   
                  M.D.
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George W. Warren
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Painter
                  400
                  Indiana
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Lyons Sr.
                  70
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                   
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Asenath "
                  64
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  America "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James Hall
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  650
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary E. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Shull
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mahala "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Staley
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Lyons Jr
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  3000
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  America "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Hoover
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  David 
                                Randolph
                            
                  
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Inn Keeper
                  100
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charles M. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James T. "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Nelson Felsh
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Constable
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Mathews
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elliotl Snelling
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Cabinet Maker
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Anderson Hamilton
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Gullett
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Francis A. Mott
                  36
                  M
                   
                  M.D.
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John B. Moore
                  45
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Bartholomy
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Deborah Wllsey
                  18
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha"
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robert Crow
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Shoemaker
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maria "
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilson Alsop
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Grocery Keeper
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucy Anna Alsop
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane"
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William"
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Camilla Agniel
                  76
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                   
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  59
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Felix "
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Luke "
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Camilla "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Student
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Green
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amanda White
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha C. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alexander Garrett
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mahulda "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Robert Outlaw
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Purkey
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ann Snelling
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                  150
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Spencer
                  25
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Esther Ann "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Nancy E. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Chapplesmith
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Artist
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  43
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frank Herman
                  50
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                  600
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  38
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William Michaas
                  85
                  M
                   
                  Trader
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte Ruchtie
                  47
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Pleasant "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Rosanah "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lewis F. "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Patrick O. Brien
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Andrew Gleichman
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                   
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  William "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             "
                  5
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lorenza "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elijah Phillips
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Tailor
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mahala McMunn
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Margaret McMunn
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte M. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Ann "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ruth Ann "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martha 
                                Warren
                            
                  
                  50
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                North Carolina
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Bennett
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Schoolteacher
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jinetta "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Shellybet "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nelson G. Nettleton
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                   
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isaur "
                  29
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Virginia T. "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lucille "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Daniel W. "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Louisiana
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Isabella Baldwin
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Newton Stickily
                  18
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Daniel J. Purkey
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  500
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary E. "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Frederick G. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eliza J. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William Cox
                  58
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  43
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amanda "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Lydia "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mathew "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lydia Robb "
                  73
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Edward Cox
                  64
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                   
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Fred Bishop
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emma "
                  8/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edward Murphy
                  36
                  M
                   
                  M.D.
                   
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  36
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Edward "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary Thomas
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Amelia Middleton
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Canada
                             Taylor
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  46
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Taylor
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  15
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Hubert Gullett
                  60
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  600
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James G. Walker
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Book Keeper
                  600
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  L. D. Brooks
                  38
                  M
                   
                  M. D.
                  150
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Winaferd "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Emetine "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Zachariah Johnson
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  400
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lelia "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William L. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eugene "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John B. Richards
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Johnson
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John Valkylee
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Frances "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy Creek
                  50
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sylvester "
                  18
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Emelina "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Matilda "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane Oglesby
                  53
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John B. Johnson
                  61
                  M
                   
                  Magistrate
                  600
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Esther "
                  60
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Harriet Hayden
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Laura "
                  11
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Adam Wilmoth
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Carpenter
                  200
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary C. "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Maidlow "
                  62
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Connor
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary Jane "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard J. "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  May "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alexander "
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Marshall
                  44
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                  300
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine Marshall
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Klizabeth "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Baldwin
                  59
                  M
                   
                  Wagon Maker
                  500
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  47
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Abraham "
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Wagon Maker
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Edwin "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin Stoker
                  63
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Klizabeth "
                  63
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin "
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William New
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emma "
                  2/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George W. Saltzman
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                  1000
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  40
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Angeline Reeder
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James F. Alexander
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lewis Bonner
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Blacksmith
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas 
                                Brown
                            
                  
                  64
                  M
                   
                  Shoemaker
                  500
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Serena M. "
                  52
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maria "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Thrall
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                  700
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Walter "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Albert "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eugene "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Sims
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Caroline Gullett
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                  500
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Robert "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Williams
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Teamster
                  100
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John A. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Amon "
                  4/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Josiah White
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Spencer
                             Frances
                  50
                  M
                  M
                  Huckster
                  150
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  47
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Mary Jane Tyler
                  19
                  F
                  B
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Riehard "
                  13
                  M
                  B
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Victoria Tyler
                  7
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alice Frances
                  1
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte Sims
                  6/12
                  F
                  M
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph Miller
                  57
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  37
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julius "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Harmon "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eddo "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Clara "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Phillips
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Cooper
                  200
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wilhelmina "
                  48
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Jackson
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jonathan "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Byron "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Walter "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Florence Pritchard
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas M. "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julian "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Macdonald
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph Endicott
                  28
                  M
                   
                  Millwright
                  150
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza Ann "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Martha Williams
                  54
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                South Carolina
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Enock "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Emery "
                  19
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Riley Creek
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth West
                  42
                  F
                   
                   
                  300
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alfred "
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Sadler
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Emma "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Anna "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Fredk Lichtenberger
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Miller & distillery
                  600
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jannas Lichteberger
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Clarence L. "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm F. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily Fauntleroy
                  56
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Saddler
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Praus
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                   
                  Prusia
                  1
               
               
                  Virginia "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                  1
                   
                  
               
               
                  Caroline Corbin
                  32
                  F
                   
                   
                  500
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Cox
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                  500
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ema "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm Carr
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Samuel Scott
                  76
                  M
                  B
                  "
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John Stinet
                  45
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  Unknown
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John R. Right
                  27
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  27
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Mary "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Fetherby
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Tailor
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  70
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joshua H. Varul
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Carpentr
                   
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robt H. F. "
                  7/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Horace Priehard
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Attorny at Law
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Masachusts
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Adilia "
                  13
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Bertrand "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Clera "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Horace "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Michael Craddoek
                  42
                  M
                   
                  Fur trader
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza I. "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  16
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Henry Hugo "
                  13
                  M
                   
                   
                  1000
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Wm Craddock
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ema "
                  7/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Craddock
                  65
                  F
                   
                   
                  400
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Walace Gordon
                  48
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Julia "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Cruddock
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary Ann Gordon
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  J. S. Mann
                  40
                  M
                   
                  M. D.
                  700
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Margaret Mann
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Sims
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Anna Mann
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Dela "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Ida "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Naltilia "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  3/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charloite Hill
                  17
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                North Carolina
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             MeNais
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Student
                   
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robt Robson
                  48
                  M
                   
                  M. D.
                  200
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  49
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Pensylvania
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Richard "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eliza I. Thomas
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James 
                                Chad
                             wick
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Saddler
                  200
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Masachuts
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wheler Dayter
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Charles Chadwick
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  4
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Chas White
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  250
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlolt "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frances "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Mumford
                  46
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Pensylvania
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Fanny "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Hunston
                  13
                  M
                   
                  Clerk
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Charlotte Read
                  54
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sheridan Anderson
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sheridan "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Adam Shirley
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Tenesee
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah Ann "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Melnine "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Francis "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Richard Ford
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  600
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Prudence "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm M. Ford
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maurice "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann Bishop
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Johnson
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Rebeyre
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Farmer & Trader
                  8500
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Emily "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Fredrich "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Cada Boullin
                  28
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lous Sourbit
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Fany "
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Varner
                  41
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  31
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Francis "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah I. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  M. S. S. Robb
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Shoemaker
                   
                  Tenesee
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane M. "
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Andrew Wuslis
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Miller
                  250
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  47
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Andrew Wiliams
                  21
                  M
                   
                  Stem Enginer
                  250
                  England
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Frank Bottin
                  26
                  M
                   
                  Miller
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary
                  26
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Catharin "
                  3/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Marian Benet
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Louisiana
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  William "
                  7
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James S. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ema Reed
                  14
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mary Pech
                  49
                  F
                   
                   
                  1000
                  Conecticut
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Barton
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Black Smith
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary E. "
                  15
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  2/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Wm Penis
                  37
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Marthy "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Wm "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah E. "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elisabeth Colin
                  20
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Unknown
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Rusel Johnson
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy J. "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James D. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Basil Clark
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Arthur Stoker
                  34
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary A. "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Tidrin
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  250
                  Penslvania
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robt "
                  15
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Belinda Groves
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Peter "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Antono "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Sims
                  58
                  M
                  B
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  40
                  F
                  B
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mariah "
                  14
                  F
                  B
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  4
                  F
                  B
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Smith
                  19
                  M
                  M
                  Distiller
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Patsy Donalson
                  50
                  F
                  B
                   
                  400
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Bob Macey
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Merchant
                  800
                  New Pork
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary C. "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  1
                  
                  
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Eliza [Illegible]
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Chas Dransfeld
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Brick Mason
                  1500
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cath "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Arthur "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary Anderson
                  26
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Husband
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Brick Wason
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  17
                  M
                   
                  "
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann Anderson
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Bud Vets
                  38
                  M
                   
                  Mill & distily
                  800
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  34
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Marianh Corbin
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Geurge Woods
                  37
                  M
                   
                  S. B. Enginer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah Ann "
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Penslvania
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa I. "
                  10
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  5
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Ann Hall
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Unknown
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Baldwin
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Waggonmak
                  300
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Robert Clark
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Holmes Inger
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Taner
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Mariah "
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Susan "
                  1/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph Stuart
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  33
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Peter "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Saml Stuart
                  11
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isaac "
                  9
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  J'oseph "
                  3
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Peter Baker,
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Isaac Baker
                  74
                  M
                   
                  Capentr
                   
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary "
                  50
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Eliott
                  40
                  M
                   
                  Farmer Miller
                  7000
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Uary A. "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John "
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Marian "
                  12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  George "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elisa Sims
                  14
                  F
                  B
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James Bartiin
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Steem Enginer
                   
                  Tenesee
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah A. "
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Alary A. "
                  6
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Wm "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Melinda C. "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Baton
                  16
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Chilan Gihn
                  35
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Tmuisa "
                  30
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  May "
                  8
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Geor. W. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thos. Jones
                  36
                  M
                   
                  Taner
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sholette "
                  23
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  M. F.
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eleanor "
                  2
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jonah Wamse
                  32
                  M
                   
                  Machinist
                  600
                  Masachsets
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cantino C. "
                  55
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James H. Guehn
                  17
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  D. M. Schne
                  29
                  M
                   
                  Saddler
                  600
                  Pensilvania
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy W. "
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  3
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Eleanora
                  4/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Wm Coblen
                  20
                  M
                   
                  Saddler
                   
                  Pensilvania
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  George Baldwin
                  22
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mariah"
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elisabeth"
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Christopher "
                  47
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jane Burrows
                  56
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Baldwin
                  23
                  M
                   
                  Stage [?]
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Pote
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  800
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Maria"
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Tenesee
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  [Illegible] "
                  10
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  8
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Maurice"
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  George "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary"
                  6/12
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Joseph A. Sims
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Sarah"
                  22
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary E.
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                             Cox
                  33
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Jullia"
                  24
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Johnathen "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Martha "
                  1
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elisabeth Cox
                  67
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  S. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Edward Staley
                  24
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                  200
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Arthur
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Lnhorer
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Mary H. "
                  25
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Delia Lyons
                  21
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Horace Lyons
                  8/12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Wood
                  54
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  N. Cwolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Elizabeth "
                  45
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Tennesse
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Leven "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Hicksy "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Anna O Neal
                  19
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  James W. "
                  1
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Andrew Horn
                  30
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  Tennesse
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Michael "
                  4
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Benjamin White
                  43
                  M
                   
                  Farmer
                   
                  
                            
                                Tennessee
                            
                        
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Mary "
                  42
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Alfred "
                  12
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             "
                  6
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry "
                  2
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  William Muckleroy
                  31
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Nary "
                  35
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Edward Quinn
                  27
                  M
                   
                  Laborer
                   
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Cynthia "
                  39
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  N. Carolina
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Aaron J. Ingle
                  14
                  M
                   
                   
                   
                  Indiana
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Angeline "
                  9
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Nancy J. "
                  7
                  F
                   
                   
                   
                  "
                   
                   
                   
               
            
         
         
         
            THE ARRIVAL OF THE RAPPITES AT NEW HARMONY1
            
            JOHN C. ANDRESSOHN
            
            This letter from "Father" George Rapp to John L. Baker (also Bacher) was dated July
                    2, 1814, and was sent by post on July 2, 1814. George Rapp, therefore, was still in Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , while John L. Baker was in 
                        New Harmony
                    , having gone there probably with the first contingent, which must have left during the
                    spring of 1814. The letter reveals the steps that were being taken to dispose of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     holdings and also that the income would be sufficient to buy additional good land in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Between the lines one can read that George Rapp had some fears that a spirit of
                    discontent was developing and admonished against it. The industrious nature of the community was
                    evident by the fact that they were able to harvest three hundred loads of hay with much more in
                    prospect. The German is in places very quaint with much dialect influence. The sentences are strung
                    together with commas rather than periods. Capitalization is erratic and the umlaut is at times
                    unintentionally omitted.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [From] Georg Rapp July 2 1814
                        John L. Bacher Harmoni den 2tn July 1814.
                        Ich berichte euch dass seyd eurer abreise bey uns nichts besonders vorkommen ist,
                                    etlichte sind wider krank geworden, zum Exp. Christina
                                    Dünvächterin die meisten hat-ten bey ihrm Leben aufgeben aber
                                    nun ist sie auf ihrer besserung, die Regina Schäfferin ist sehr krank
                                    gewesen, aber wider besser, der Riesch war sehr hart krank aber heute besuchte ich
                                    ihn er stirbt vor wiirklich nicht, sonst ist aber alles wohl, und tädig,
                                    es kommen schon manche Land-bese 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [To] John L. Baker to the Care of Messr Ewings & Badollet Vincinnes 
                                        India
                                     territory John L. Bacher Harmony July 2, 1814.
                        I am informing you that since your departure nothing of importance has happened here.
                                    Some have become ill again, for instance Christina Dürwachter; most
                                    persons despaired of her life, but now she is improving. Regina
                                    Schäffer has been very ill, but she is well again. Reisch was seriously
                                    ill, but today I visited him; he really won't die. Otherwise all are well
                                    and active. Already many prospective buyers have come to look over our land. If it
                                    cannot be disposed of
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 The original letters are in the Indiana University Library,
                        Bloom-ington, Indiana.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        her, wan es nieht im ganzen geht, so ist kein Zweifel dass es einst in kleinere
                                    stücke verkaufft, vor die Miihl und 200 Acker hat einer 7000$
                                    gebotten bar Gelt und so noch mehr andere Liebhaber sind da, sonderlich
                                    Häuser und Cothen werden besehen, die einen guten Preis bringen werden.
                                    Desswegen möget ihr das gute land um unsere tracte herum
                                    knüpfen, sonderlich die Insel nieht vergessen, wegen der
                                    Komonität und Friedens halber, wir Rechnen alle Tage wie weit ihr seyn
                                    möchtet, und wissen her-nach doch nichts, aber doch geht das Wort Pauli
                                    in erfüllung die Liebe träget alles, sie duldet alles, weil
                                    die Hoffnung sie begleidet. es ist kein kleines einander Missen zu miissen, ob es
                                    schon nicht lange, aber darin muss die Liebe ihre Starke zeigen, um den Muth nicht
                                    sinken zu lassen, in erfiillung der Pflichten Gehorsam zu üben, wed es
                                    die Brüderschaft hat so haben wollen, auf dieses Fundament
                                    kön-net ihr fest stehen, es wird nicht weichen, lebet ihr so lebet ihr
                                    dem Herrn, stirbt eines oder das ander so stirbt es dem Herrn: und der Todt wird uns
                                    nicht trennen. Ich will nieht hoffen dass jemand unter euch ist der das heimweh hat
                                    nach dem alten platz, es ist von uns niemand mehr hier daheim, alles hat lange weil
                                    bey den viel ge-schafften die uns würklich unter handen seyn, wir haben
                                    underdes-sen mehr als 300 Wagen loth Heu gemacht, und sind noch lange nicht fertig,
                                    ich denke den 10 July zu Ernten, alles kommt zu hauffen in Geschäften,
                                    und doch wils die Zeit nicht vertreiben, und wird auch nicht besser werden bis wir
                                    wider alle bey sammen seyn, ihr werdet es erfahren haben bey eurem ob-schidt, und
                                    werdet es noch täglich erfahren dass wir zusarnmen ge-hören,
                                    daraus konnet ihr sichbarlich
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        as a unit, it can without doubt be sold in smaller lots. One person offered
                                    $7000 cash for the mill and 200 acres. And there are more prospects,
                                    having come to view especially the houses and the cottages; these will bring a good
                                    price. Therefore you might combine the good land around our tracts, not forgetting
                                    the island, on account of the community and in the interests of peace.
                        We figure each day how far along you may be, and yet we do not know anything, but
                                    otherwise the words of 
                                        St. Paul
                                     are fulfilled: Love beareth all things, love en-dureth all things,
                                    because hope accompanies love. It is no small matter to have to miss one another,
                                    even though only a short period has elapsed. But in this matter love must show its
                                    strength in order that our courage may be sustained to carry out our duties
                                    obediently, since the Brotherhood has so decreed. On this foundation you can stand
                                    firmly, it will not give way: if you live, you will live in the Lord; if one or the
                                    other should die, he will die in the Lord—and death will not part us.
                        I certainly hope that none among you is homesick for the old place; none of us here
                                    any longer feels that this is his home. We are bored by the many business
                                    transactions which are awaiting settlement. Meanwhile we have made more than 300
                                    wagon loads of hay and have not nearly finished. I think I shall be able to harvest
                                    on July 10. Business deals are piling up and yet fail to make the time pass. It
                                    won't get any better until we are all together again. You will have
                                    realized this at the time of your departure and still day by day you will realize
                                    that we belong together. From this fact you can visibly see and
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        sehen und erkennen, dass Gott die liebe ist, und wie wahr es ist, und werden wird was
                                    geschrieben steht Ihr seyd allzumal einer in Christo Jesu, darin besteht das Reich
                                    Gottes, den Gott wird seine sichbare Gottheit zeigen allen sein-en Engel und Geister
                                    an der Gem-eine der verEinigten Bruderschaft, das wird die grösste qual
                                    der Ver-damten seyn wan sie das sehen werden, und die Gelegenheit der Zeit nicht in
                                    acht genommen, dar-urn seyd stark im Geiste eures Gemüthes, euren
                                    geistlichen, und leiblichen Posten zu behaupten, dem Herm Jesu zu Ehren, und uns zur
                                    freude, und euch zum nuzen, die etlich Monath werden bald da seyn, wo ich euch sehen
                                    werde, wan der weil jemand trübsal hötte, so neh-met eure
                                    Zuflucht zum Gebet, es haben sich alle Heilige, u. Glaubige mit geholfen habt Salz
                                    bey euch, und Friede unter einander, Der Herr bewahre also euren ausgang und Eingang
                                    dass ihr also unter seiner obhut ihn nie vergesset son-dern seine Gegenwart merket,
                                    so konnet ihr nicht Sündigen, lebet wohl:
                        Georg Rapp.
                        übrigens grüsset euch Friedrich und Rosina, und noch viele.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                         recognize that God is love and how true it is and will be what has been written: you
                                    are all one in Christ Jesus; in this consists the kingdom of God. For God will show
                                    His visible godhood to all His angels and to all the spirits of the community of the
                                    united brotherhood. That will be the greatest torment of the damned when they shall
                                    see this and realize that they have neglected the opportunity of time. Therefore
                                    remain strong in the spirit of your soul, maintain your spiritual and your secular
                                    duties to the honor of our Lord Jesus and to our joy and to your gain. The few
                                    months will soon pass until I shall see you. If any one suffer tribulation, let him
                                    seek refuge in prayer. In this manner all the saints and the faithful have found
                                    help. Keep the salt [of faith] with you, and have peace among you. The Lord shield
                                    your coming and your going, that you may under His protection never forget Him, but
                                    remain aware of His presence. In this way you cannot sin. Farewell.
                        Georg Rapp.
                        In addition, Frederick and Rosina and many others send you greetings.
                     
                  
               
                
            This letter was written by Romelius L. Baker (who, after George Rapp's death in 1847, took
                    over the control of the Rappists at Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and maintained it until his death in 1868) to his two brothers John and Jacob. The
                    letter was not sent by mail, but went with the second transport. Romelius was apparently one of the
                    leading business managers of the community. The supplementary note, written September 17, shows in
                    what flux conditions were; on the fourteenth Romelius doubted whether his father (or was it Father
                    Rapp?) could leave by fall; three days later the departure was set for fall. The letter
                    is the most carefully written and shows the best composition of the four. Its content is largely
                    personal. The address side reads:
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [From] Romelius L. Baker Sept 14th 1814
                        Harmonie den 14ten Sept. 1814. John & Jacob L. Baker Vielgeliebte
                                    Brüder!
                        Das fast unaufhorliche Andenken an euch, veranlasst mich durch diese gute Gelegenheit
                                    an euch zu schrei-ben; indem es uns im Anfang nach eurer Abreise sehr wehe gethan,
                                    euch unauf'hörlich zu missen, und nicht wie
                                    gewöhnlich bey uns wa-ret, oft haben wir geglaubt einer oder der andere
                                    sey irgend wohin gegangen, und werde bald wieder komen, allein als man sich recht
                                    besonnen hat, so waret ihr äusser-lich sehr weit von uns getrennt, Ob
                                    jezt schon eine zeit her eure Abwesenheit uns nist mehr so hart ist als zuerst, so
                                    befindet sich dennoch ein groses Verlangen im Inwendigen nach euch, unsere El-tern
                                    und ich auch haben schon oft gewunscht, wir möchten nur konen an Wabasch
                                    hinunter fliegen, und euch sehen, und mit euch reden, denn ungetrennt
                                    äusert sich die Liebe niemals so viel, und das Briiderliche Verlangen,
                                    nach einan-der ist keines Wegs so fühlbar als bey einer so langen
                                    Trennung, welches ihr ohne zweifel selbst werdet erfahren haben, aber dieweil es
                                    sich jezt so zugetragen, dass wir versezt worden, und nicht hat konen wohl anders
                                    seyn, so erinnern wir uns an des Vaters Predigt dieer gethan den lezten Sontag als
                                    ihr noch hier waret, dass uns eben der Stein des Patriarchen Jakobs, oftmals in Weg
                                    komt um unser Haupt darauf zu legen, welches gemeiniglich hart vorkommt, de-noch
                                    halten wir uns an einander, und tröstet uns wieder, wann wir erfahren
                                    dass wir noch mehr Kama-raden haben, denen es eben so gehet und den Weg mit uns
                                    machen. Was
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [To] John & Jacob L. Baker New Harmonie
                        Idianna Territory [sic]
                        Harmony, September 14, 1814. John & Jacob L. Baker Much beloved Brothers:
                        The almost constant thought of you impels me to seize this good opportunity [the
                                    departure of a transport] to write to you, for at first after your departure we felt
                                    great grief having to miss you constantly, not having you as usually with us. Often
                                    we imagined that one or the other had gone somewhere and would soon return; but as
                                    we reflected we realized that you were physically widely separated from us. Although
                                    as time passed your absence was no longer so hard to bear as at first, yet there
                                    exists within us a great longing for you; our parents and I have often wished that
                                    we might be able to fly down to the 
                                        Wabash
                                     to see you, to talk to you, for love without absence never manifests
                                    itself so much, and the brotherly longing for one another is by no means so
                                    noticeable as after so long a separation. Without doubt you have experienced this
                                    yourself. Now that we are parted —it could not be avoided—we
                                    recall Father's sermon which he delivered on the last Sunday that you were
                                    here. He spoke of the stone of the Patriarch Jacob which often appears along our way
                                    for us to rest our heads, which usually seems hard. Yet we shall cleave to one
                                    another, and we are comforted when we feel that we have more comrades who fare as we
                                    do and who are associated with us on our way. As for our physical condition we are
                                    at present well and hale, namely our parents and our brothers and sisters
                                    ["Geschwister" may mean either brothers or sisters or both]; nor
                                    is any one in
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        unsern äusern zustand betrifft, so sind wir, nehmlich unsre Eltern und
                                    Geschwister gegenwärtig wohl und gesund, und ist auch sonst von uns
                                    weiter niemand besonders gefähr-lich krank, und wunschen von Her-zen dass
                                    ihr auch euch alle gesund befinden möchtet, indem wir uns wohl vorstellen
                                    könen dass ihr Gesundheit und guten Muth von Nothen habt bey einem
                                    solchen grosen Anf ang.—Die Chatarina war in Monath Juni und July sehr
                                    viel mit ihmr üblen Krankheit behaf-tet, ist aber eine geraume Zeit her
                                    zimmlich wohl, welches uns sehr angenehm ist, denn ihre Krankheit hat mich
                                    für meine Persohn nie-mals so sehr bekummert, als ihr beide noch hir
                                    waret, als unter-dessen, denn damals waret ihr auch mit Leyder, weil aber die Zahl
                                    der Familie jetzt kleiner ist so machts einen grossen Unter-schied, welches ich
                                    zuvor nicht ge-glaubt hatte.
                        Es wird unsre Familie schwer-lich treffen dass sie dieses Jahr noch fort kommt, indem
                                    der Vater noch zimmlich Geschäften hier hat, doch ganz bestimmt kan mann
                                    es noch nicht wissen, dieweil es noch 6 oder 8 Wochen anstehen kan bis der 3te
                                    Transport abziehet, sollte es auch heuer nicht geschehen, so wird sich die Liebe und
                                    das Ver-langen auch den kalten Winter uber nicht verlieren, weder bey euch noch bey
                                    uns, nein sondern wir freuen uns auf die angenehme Zu-samnienkunft, wo wir wieder
                                    alle bey einander leben, und uns auf das neue wieder zusammen schlies-sen werden,
                                    wie eine liebliche Har-monie. Indessen weis ich weiter nichts zu schreiben, die
                                    Briider werden euch genauen Bericht geben von allem was sich seit eurer Abreise bey
                                    uns zugetragen.
                        Ich verbhibe In der Hofnung
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        our relationship especially dangerously ill. We heartily hope that you too may all be
                                    well, for we can indeed realize that you will require health and a good spirit in
                                    such a great undertaking.—Catherine was sorely afflicted during June and
                                    July with her grievous ailment, but has been rather well for a considerable time. As
                                    far as I was concerned, her ailment never worried me so much when the two of you
                                    were still here as it has since, for then you were sharers of our sorrow. Now, since
                                    the family is smaller, it makes a great difference, something which I would not have
                                    believed before.
                        It will hardly be the lot of our family to be on our way this year, for father has
                                    considerable business to attend to here; but we can't be sure of it, since
                                    six or eight weeks may elapse before the third transport will depart. Even if it
                                    [our departure] should not occur this year, nevertheless our love and longing will
                                    not disappear even during the cold winter, neither among you nor us. No, indeed,
                                    rather will we look forward with joy to the pleasant reunion, when we again shall
                                    all live together and again be linked together like a sweet harmony. I know of nothing more to write. The brethren will give you a careful
                                    account of all things that have taken place since your departure.
                        I remain with the hope that when we meet again I shall find you in good health.
                        Your loving brother Romelius L. Baker
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        euch gesund wieder anzutreffen. euer euch liebender Bruder Romelius L. Baker
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Den 17ten Sept 1814
                        Unser Vater hat erfahren dass er mit seiner Familie dieses Spat-jahr auch noch fort
                                    kommen würde, nebst zimmlich mehr von unsern Leuten, indem sie in Zeit
                                    von 4 Wocheh angedroschen haben wer-den, Ich werde vor dem
                                    Frühjahr nicht kommen, und das vermuthlich mit den aller letzten.
                        Wir senden euch auch bey die-sem Transport ein klein Fasslein Apfel es ist auf dem
                                    einen Boden rnit J.L.B. und auf dem andern mit 19 lb. bezeichnet, und
                                    wünschen ihr mochtet sie gut erhalten.
                        Einen Herzlichen Gruss von Vater Mutter, Schwester und Bruder Romelius
                        Wilhelm wird euch auch das ins Deutsche ubersetzte Josephs Biich-lein
                                    überliefern.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        September 17, 1814.
                        Our father has learned that he and his family will be able to leave this fall with a
                                    considerable contingent of our people, since in four weeks thrashing will have
                                    begun. I shall not be able to come before spring, probably among the very last.
                        We are sending you with this transport also a small barrel of apples; the bottom is
                                    marked with the letters J.L.B., on the other end with 19 lbs. We hope you receive it
                                    in good condition.
                        A hearty greeting from father, mother, sister, and brother. Romelius
                        William will bring you a German translation of Joseph's book.
                     
                  
               
                
            The third letter was written by Frederic Rapp to "Father" George Rapp, who was now
                    in 
                        New Harmony
                    , having gone with the second transport. Part of it was written on October 30, another
                    part on October 31, and an addition on November 1. It deals nearly entirely with business matters.
                    This letter was the most difficult to translate, and a few of the translations may not be accurate.
                    Hay wine may be wine that has been cured in a stack of hay. "Zackenrad-Zapfen" and
                    "Kelsch" need further study. "Kelsch" in the Swabian dialect
                    means goblet (Kelch), but the word "Stuck" preceding it is troublesome. What the
                    figures in the final column under Bill of Goods signify is not clear, whether the amount is in cents
                    and represents the price per yard or the total cost of the bolts in dollars.
                    "Piece" in connection with the goods means the "whole piece" or
                    bolt. The word "Ausla-dung" on the final page, contrary to its usual meaning, here
                    seems to be used in the sense of filling up the unused space in the boats. The lists of goods
                    contain a strange combination of German and English. On the first page, after the word
                    "Potetoes," the writer, probably afraid that this word might  not be understood, inserted the German dialect form
                    "Grundbeere," a translation of the French pommes de terre.
                    "Drap plains" mentioned in the second list is drab, a thick
                    woolen cloth. "Casinet" (cassinette) is a cloth with a cotton warp and a woof of
                    very fine wool. What the term "wings" in the last line refers to is not clear to
                    the translator. It is interesting to note that orders for cloth came to Harmony from as far away as
                    Corydon.
            
               Memorandum von allgemeinen Sachen welche abgesandt worden den 3lten Oct. 1814 to New Harmonie
               
                  106 Bbls flour
               
               
                  95 " Potetoes Grundbeere
               
               
                  17 " Sauer Kraut
               
               
                  6 " Aepfel
               
               
                  1 " do für Geo Rapp
               
               
                  1 " Oehl 34½
               
               
                  2 " Eyer in Mehl gepackt
               
               
                  % " Erbsen für Geo Rapp
               
               
                  1 " Rind Schmalz
               
               
                  1 " Essig
               
               
                  1 " Persiko 33 1/2
               
               
                  4 " alten Heywein 132 ¼
               
               
                  1 " do Brantenwein 34 ½
               
               
                  3 " gemeinen do. 101
               
               
                  1 " Curr. Wine 33 ½
               
               
                  1 " Bohnen
               
               
                  4 " Pfersig Schnitz
               
               
                  1/2 " Rey Grass und Aepfel Kernen
               
               
                  2 Box Fensterrahmen
               
               
                  1 Fässle mit Blumen Zwiebel
               
               
                  2 Hafners Drehstühl
               
               
                  1 Kisten mit Tuch
               
               
                  1 Bbl Tarr
               
               
                  1 Sägmühl Sagen
               
               
                  1 do Cranck
               
               
                  1 do. Zacken Rad
               
               
                  Zapfen fur Sagmiihl
               
               
                  2 fasslen Bütter
               
               
                  1 klein kästlein Geo Rapp.
               
               
                  1 Bbl Erbsen
               
            
            
               Memorandum of miscellaneous things which were sent on Oct 31, 1814 to 
                            New Harmony
                        
               
               
                  106 barrels of flour
               
               
                  95 " of potatoes
               
               
                  17 " of sauerkraut
               
               
                  6 " of apples
               
               
                  1 barrel of apples for Geo. Rapp
               
               
                  1 " of oil 34 1/2 lbs.
               
               
                  2 barrels of eggs packed in flour
               
               
                  1/2 barrel of peas for Geo. Rapp
               
               
                  1 " of beef-suet
               
               
                  1 " of vinegar
               
               
                  1 " of peaches 331/2 Ibs.
               
               
                  4 barrels of old hay-wine 1321/2
               
               
                  1 barrel of old brandy 341/2
               
               
                  3 barrels of common brandy 101
               
               
                  1 barrel of currant wine 33%
               
               
                  1 " of beans
               
               
                  4 barrels of dried peaches
               
               
                  1/2 barrel of rye and apple seeds
               
               
                  2 boxes of window frames
               
               
                  1 small barrel of flower bulbs
               
               
                  2 potter's turning benches
               
               
                  1 chest of cloth
               
               
                  1 barrel of tar
               
               
                  1 saw for sawmill
               
               
                  1 crank for sawmill
               
               
                  1 gear tenon for sawmill
               
               
                  2 small tubs of butter
               
               
                  1 small box for Geo. Rapp
               
               
                  1 barrel of peas
               
            
            
               folgendes ist in Box No. 1.
               
                  2 Duzend Deutsche
               
               
                  2 " Englische Kalender
               
               
                  34 ½ yd. Halblein
               
            
            
               The following articles are in Box No. 1
               
                  2 dozen German calendars
               
               
                  2 " English calendars
               
               
                  34 1/2 yards of half-linen
               
            
            
            
               
                  4 sträng faden
               
               
                  1 Doz Schurzfell
               
               
                  22 Hosen Fell
               
               
                  2 doz Calb Fell
               
               
                  2 " Grunds"
               
               
                  1/2 " Hunds "
               
               
                  8 yd flanel für Futtertuch
               
               
                  6 kleine Säcklen mit Saamen
               
               
                  1 Box mit 2050 Thaler
               
               
                  1 paar Stiefel für Vater
               
               
                  1 Sackle mit Huzel für ditto
               
               
                  1 Bundel Werg fur Wilhelm
               
               
                  1 stuck Kelsch für Ziegler
               
               
                  1 " Tuch für di.
               
               
                  1 " ditto " Rühle 
                  Box No. 1
               
            
            
               
                  4 hanks of thread
               
               
                  1 dozen leather aprons
               
               
                  22 leather trousers
               
               
                  2 dozen calf hides
               
               
                  2 " pig skins
               
               
                  1/2 " dog hides
               
               
                  8 yards flannel for lining
               
               
                  6 small sacks with seeds
               
               
                  1 box containing $2050
               
               
                  1 pair of boots for father
               
               
                  1 bag with dried fruit for father
               
               
                  1 bundle of oakum for William
               
               
                  1 piece of ? for Ziegler
               
               
                  1 piece of cloth for "
               
               
                  1 piece of cloth for Rühle
                  Box No. 1
               
            
            
               [Original]
               
                   
                  Bill of Goods
                   
                  
               
               
                   
                  2 ps drap plains 24 1/2 & 24 1/4
                  48 3/4 yds.
                  125
               
               
                   
                  1 " brown broad Cloth
                  19 5/8 "
                  325
               
               
                   
                  1 " do. do.
                  19 1/4 "
                  500
               
               
                  1
                  1 " blk do
                  18 1/2"
                  800
               
               
                  Box
                  1 " blue do
                  21 1/2
                  800
               
               
                   
                  1/2" blk do
                  7 1/4 "
                  1100
               
               
                   
                  2 " red flannel
                  59 1/4
                  622
               
               
                   
                  2 P. Casinet
                  55
                  175
               
            
            
               
                  Box
                  2 doz German almanacs
                  per doz. 100
               
               
                  No. 1
                  1 " magacin 100. 1 Doz Comon
                  50
               
               
                   
                  1 Bbl Coffee 160 Ib. @
                  36 1/2 cts. Ib.
               
               
                   
                  1 " I'epper 119 "
                  53 c.
               
               
                   
                  1 " Alspice 68 "
                  57
               
               
                   
                  1/2 " Coperass 151 "
                  20 c.
               
               
                   
                  4 cwt 8 Bundle Nail Rods
                  12.50 per cwt.
               
               
                   
                  2 Bundle spike do
                  12.50 do
               
               
                   
                  1 Keg Ginger 41 lb.
                  47 c.
               
            
            
               [Translation]
               
                   
                  Bill of Goods
                  
                  
               
               
                   
                  2 pieces of plain drab 24 1/2 & 24 1/4
                  48 3/4 yds.
                  125
               
               
                   
                  1 piece of brown broadcloth
                  19 5/8 "
                  325
               
               
                   
                  1 piece of " "
                  19 1/4 "
                  500
               
               
                  1
                  1 piece of black broadcloth
                  18 1/2
                  800
               
               
                  Box
                  1 piece of blue "
                  21 1/2 "
                  800
               
               
                   
                  1/2 piece black "
                  7 1/4 "
                  1100
               
               
                   
                  2 pieces of red flannel
                  59 1/4 "
                  622
               
               
                   
                  2 pieces of cassinette
                  55
                  175
               
            
            
               
                  Box
                  1 dozen German almanacs
                  per dozen
                  100
               
               
               
                  No. 1
                  1 dozen magazines 100
                  1 dozen
                  common 50
               
               
                   
                  1 barrel of coffee
                  160 lbs.
                  @ 36 1/2 cents a Ib.
               
               
                   
                  1 " of pepper
                  119 "
                  53 cents
               
               
                   
                  1 " of allspice
                  68 "
                  57
               
               
                   
                  ½ " of copperas
                  151 "
                  20 cents
               
               
                   
                  4 cwt 8 [quarters] bundle
                  of nail rods
                  12.50 per cwt.
               
               
                   
                  2 bundles of spike rods
                  
                  12.50 " "
               
               
                   
                  1 keg of ginger
                  41 lbs.
                  47 cents
               
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        den 30ten October
                        Ferner habe dem J. L. Baker, 1200 Daller in Nothen eingepackt ubergeben, welches er
                                    dir einhän-digen wird, habe ihm auch 200 Dal-er Extra fur Reisegeld
                                    geben, ich habe vor etlich Wochen einen Brief von Corydon von einem Kaufman Nahmens
                                    Davis Hogel erhalten wo er mich ersucht um ein klein Asort-ment Tücher,
                                    welche ihm bey un-sern Leuthen schiken soll, da ich aber nicht weiss in welcher
                                    gegend es liegt, auch keinen Mann hahe der so etwas besorgen könte, muss
                                    ich es unterlassen, heute haben wir auch eine kleine trauer im Hause gehabt, der
                                    Fordu ist Naturlich gestorben, es werden auch mit den Nachsten Leuthen wenigstens
                                    1000 Obstbaume koinmen, nebst allen den Bablen wo wir hie haben, wann nur die
                                    Strassen nicht zu schmal ausgelegt sind, dass man auf beeden seiten einen Raihen
                                    bablen sezen kan es soll ein probates Mittel ge-gen das Fieber sein, Schreibe mir
                                    auch wie viel der Captain Geld erhalt, damit ich bey seiner rück-kehr
                                    rnit ihm settlen kan, ferner lass mich auch wissen ob die Nothen von der 
                                        Ohio
                                     State, dort alle ge-hen, oder welche den Vorzug hahen. John Woods von 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     geht biss Nächsten Mertz in Congress und nimt seinen Sitz
                                    für Tanne-hill, wann etwas dorten zu besorgen ware so Schreibe an ihn er
                                    ist ein Verständiger Mann, und wird alles für uns thun,
                                    Stahn-Güther sind keine zu haben, werden also nur die
                                    nöthigste Artikel komen, in
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        October 30
                        In addition I have given J. L. Baker a package containing $1200 in notes,
                                    which he will deliver to you. I have also given him an extra $200 for
                                    traveling expenses. Several weeks ago I received a letter from Corydon, sent by a
                                    merchant named Davis Hogel, in which he requests a small assortment of cloths, which
                                    I am to have one of our people deliver. Since, however, I do not know in which
                                    region it lies and also have no one who could take care of this errand, I must pass
                                    it up. Today we had a small sorrow in the house; Fordu died a natural death. With
                                    the next group of persons will be sent 1000 fruit trees and also all the poplars
                                    which we have here. I trust that the streets are laid out sufficiently wide for a
                                    row of poplars on each side; this is said to be an excellent specific against fever.
                                    Inform me how much money the captain is to receive, so that upon his return I may be
                                    able to settle with him. Furthermore, let me know if all the notes of 
                                        Ohio
                                     State are current there [in 
                                        New Harmony
                                    ] or which of them are preferred. John Woods of 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     will enter Congress next March as a representative from Tannehill; if
                                    you have any matters to negotiate there [in Congress], so write to him. He is a man
                                    of good judgment and will do anything for us. Earthenware cannot be procured;
                                    therefore only the most necessary things 
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        dem kleinen Kistle von wallnuss holtz hat die Gertraut verschiedene Sachen das
                                    übrige werden die bru-der selbst sagen, Grusse dich
                        Fredk Kapp
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                         will be sent. In the small box of walnut Gertrude has placed a few articles. The
                                    other news the brethren will relate.
                        With greetings, Frederick Rapp.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Original]
            Nov. 1: hiemit sende noch folgends Artikel zur Ausladung der Schiffe Weighing in all 21 cwt 2
                    [quarters] 14 Ib.
            
               
                  @ $120 per ton
                   
                   
                  $129.75
               
               
                  Extra on 162 pieces
                   
                   
                  16.20
               
               
                  4 large tea kettles
                  2.25
                  9.00
                  
               
               
                  3 Mid do do
                  2.00
                  6.00
                  
               
               
                  4 small do do
                  1.75
                  7.00
                  22.00
               
               
                  1 Roll of Cordage 70 lb. @ 20 c.
                   
                   
                  14.00
               
               
                  
                   
                   
                  $181.95
               
               
                  ditto 8 cwt 2 5 Ib. Iron
                   
                   
                  82.95
               
               
                  Extra on 12 wings
                   
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  $266.50
               
            
            [Translation]
            November 1: Herewith I am sending the following additional articles to fill up the ships. [This seems
                    to be the meaning.]
            
               They weigh in all 21 cwt, 2 [quarters], 14 Ibs.
               
                  @ $120 per ton
                   
                   
                  $129.75
               
               
                  Extra on 162 pieces
                   
                   
                  16.20
               
               
                  4 large tea kettles
                  2.25
                  9.00
                   
               
               
                  4 medium " "
                  2.00
                  6.00
                   
               
               
                  4 small " "
                  1.75
                  7.00
                  22.00
               
               
                  1 roll of cordage 70 Ibs @ 20 cents
                   
                   
                  14.00
               
               
                  
                   
                   
                  $181.95
               
               
                  1 roll 8 cwt, 2 [quarters], 5 Ibs. of iron
                   
                   
                  82.95
               
               
                  Extra on 12 wings
                   
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  $266.50
               
            
            The following list probably was intended to contain the 162 pieces mentioned above: but 168 are
                    listed. If the bundle of andirons are thought of as one piece, the total would be 166.
            
               
                  4
                  7 Gall. pots
               
               
                  5
                  5 do do
               
               
                  10
                  4 do do
               
               
                  12
                  3 do do
               
               
                  20
                  2 do do
               
               
                  20
                  Mid. ovens 20 lids
               
               
                  20
                  Smal do 20 do
               
            
            
               
                  4
                  7 gallon pots
               
               
                  5
                  5 " "
               
               
                  10
                  4 " "
               
               
                  12
                  3 " "
               
               
                  20
                  2 " "
               
               
                  20
                  medium ovens [probably Dutch ovens] with 20 lids
               
            
            
            
               
                  5
                  larg Spiders 5 do
               
               
                  6
                  Med do 6 do
               
               
                  6
                  Smal do 6 do
               
               
                  1
                  pr. Large
               
               
                  1
                  pr. Mid And Irons
               
               
                  1
                  pr Smal
               
               
                  1
                  pair small
               
            
            
               
                  20
                  small ovens ith 20 lids
               
               
                  5
                  large spiders with 5 lids
               
               
                  6
                  medium spiders with 6 lids
               
               
                  6
                  small spiders with 6 lids
               
               
                  1
                  pair large
               
               
                  1
                  pair medium andirons
               
            
            
                    [On address side] Fredk Rapp Oct 31st 1814
                    An George Rapp Harmonie Indiana Territory
                
            
                    [From] Frederick Rapp October 31, 1814
                    To George Rapp [New] Harmony Indiana Territory
                
            The fourth letter, sent on December 17, by post (postage 25c) contains three parts, one by Christoph
                    Miller, a physician, another by Rosina (daughter of George Rapp), and the third by Romelius L.
                    Baker. The medical information in the first part is interesting. Senega root extract is official in
                    the 
                        United States
                     pharmacopoeia. Hydrochloric acid may indeed be obtained from shepherds, but is found in
                    sheep excreta. William was a fellow physician, who had gone ahead to 
                        New Harmony
                    . Interesting also is the description of the desire to secure gold and silver, rather
                    than notes. The "state warrants" represent the scrip issued by the states,
                    especially to pay soldiers of the war of 1812–1814; these warrants were accepted by the
                    federal government at face value in the purchase of government land. The lines written by Romelius
                    L. Baker contain interesting information on the financial transactions of the community. Those
                    persons left behind in Harmony were suffering privations, and discord seems to have been rising.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dr. Cr. Miller & Romelius Dec 17th 1814
                        [to]
                        Mr. George Rapp
                        Emmersonville Postoffice 
                                        Gibson County
                                    
                        
                        Harmonie, Indiana
                        Territory
                        Harmonie, Decemb. 17 1814
                        Lieber Vater,
                        Vorgestern Abend kam der Mr. Baldwin von seiner Reise von Erie hier an, ich nahm ihn
                                    mit noch etl. Brüder den Weingärtner Sailer u. Eckenst. in
                                    dein Hauss und) as ihm den Brief vom Hecken
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [The address contains the following inscription:]
                        [From] Dr. Cr. Miller & Romelius
                        Dec. 17th 1814
                        [to]
                        Mr. George Rapp
                        Emmersonville Postoffice
                        
                                    
                                        Gibson County
                                    
                                
                        Harmonie, Indiana
                        Territory
                        Harmony, December 17, 1814.
                        Dear Father,
                        On the evening of the day before yesterday Mr. Baldwin arrived here from his trip to
                                    Erie. I took him and several of the brethren,
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        walder vor, wo von ich dir letzte Woche eine Abschrift schickte-Er war einer ganz
                                    andern Meynung als wir, und glaubte für bestimmt dass das solches keine
                                    Ausreden von Heckenwälder und Kriemer wäaren, sondern dass
                                    wirklich kein Silber oder Gold zu bekommen, und dass er dachte man sollte so viel
                                    States Warrants nehmen als wir allerfalls nöthig hatten Land zu bezahlen,
                                    weil diese in der regier-ung immer denselben werth behiel-ten, und auch Noten von
                                    verschie-denen Banks sollten wir ‘nehmen, und eben so viel Gold u. Silber
                                    als es sich thun liesse. Man konte die Noten auswechseln u.s.w. Wir sagten er sollte
                                    schreiben, und hauptsachlich darauf dringen dass Mr. Kriemer selbst kame, und die
                                    Vortheile des Landes in Augen-schein nehmen, sie könnten als
                                    un-interressirten Manner mehr von der Sache sagen als wir, besonders da sie nun
                                    authorisirt sind einen Ver-kauf im Ganzen zu schliessen—und in die
                                    Pittsburger Gazette ha-ben wir aus Anrathen Mr. Crom-wells wirklich schon
                                    einrücken las-sen dass der Verkauf in Stucken bis Februar aufgeschoben
                                    sei, und dass Mr. Baldwin und Cromwell in der Zeit authorisirt seinen einen Verkauf
                                    im Ganzen zu schliessen. —Sonst hat sich auf dieser Seite bisher nichts
                                    gezeigt.—Bei uns geht es bisher so ziemlich gut, ausser dem Heimweh und
                                    Hunger, nach den Vatern, und warum bekommen wir aber so lange keinen Brief von dir,
                                    es verlangt uns recht sehr, wir warten von einem Posttag zum andern
                                    vergebens.—
                        Das bosartige Fieber schleicht immer noch herum; die Weingärt-nerin liegt
                                    auch davon, Zum Gluck hat sich aber von selbst ein Spei-chelfluss bei ihr
                                    eingestellt den ich mit Senega Wurzel Absaid unter-halte; auch des Schaalen
                                    Mädle
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        the vinedressers Sailer and Eckenst [ein?], to your house and read the
                                    letter of Heckenwälder to him, a copy of which I sent to you last week.
                                    He disagreed entirely with us and believed with certainty that the report of
                                    Heckenwälder and Kriemer presented no lame excuses, but that in fact no
                                    silver or gold was obtainable. He thought that we should take with us as many state
                                    warrants as we might eventually need to pay for the land, because these, so far as
                                    the government is concerned, always retain a constant value; in addition we ought to
                                    take the notes of various banks and as much gold and silver as can be obtained. The
                                    notes could then be cashed, etc. We said that he should write [to Mr. Kriemer] and
                                    urge him to come himself to inspect the ad vantages of our land. As disinterested
                                    men they [Kriemer and his partners] could present the case [the sale of the lacd]
                                    better than we, especially since they are now authorized to effect the sale as a
                                    unit. On the advice of Mr. Cromwell we have actually inserted a notice in the 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     Gazette that the sale in small lots has been deferred until February,
                                    and that in the meantime Messrs. Baldwin and Cromwell are authorized to conclude the
                                    sale as a unit. Otherwise there have been no developments along this
                                    line.—
                        Things so far are going pretty well with us except for the homesickness and the
                                    longing for the fathers. Why is it that we have received no letter from you for so
                                    long a time? We crave news from you, but we wait from one post to another
                                    in vain.
                        The malignant fever [probably malaria] is still prevalent; our vinedresser's
                                    wife is down with it. Fortunately there was a voluntary
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        liegt davon—die übrigen bessern sich—Die Salzsaure
                                    ist ein Vortref-lich Mittel dagegen, wenn man sie beizeiten anwendet, nachdem die
                                    Kranken zuvor purgirt und laxirt haben—ich habe sie dem Willhelm schon
                                    angepriesen; sollte er keine mehr haben so wird er bei den Schafern bekommen
                                    konnen—Des Wolfarts Tochter wollte ich gleich nachdem uns Friederich
                                    verliess operiren, allein das zweifelhafte resultat, die furchtige Wunde die ich
                                    zwischen den Ribben bis auf das Lungenfell zu machen hatte hielten mich ab, auch war
                                    eine Skrophulöse Verhärtung an dem Plaz wo ich schneiden
                                    wollte.—bekomme ich den keinen brief von
                                    Willhelm?—Am 13. u. 14. War ich und noch viele um Friederich
                                    und die mit ihm sind bekümmert, sie mussen in Noth gewesen seyn,
                                    be-sonders machte mir die Wagnerin viel Anfechtung. Auf den Christag bin ich
                                    entschlossen vom Heil der Sunder zu reden wozu ich viel Stoff habe, ich werde wohl
                                    genöthiget seyn zur Abwechslung dann und wan etwas zu sagen, und wenn ich
                                    fühle bist Du mir nicht ent-gegen, und da wirde von vielen
                                    ver-langt—Vater ich wandle in Lust und werde dem Herrn Jesu, Dir und der
                                    Gemeine noch genug wer-den, darum weil mir barmherzig-keit widerfahren ist glaube
                                    ich, und darinnen werde ich reden wann ich rede. Grüsse Dich, den
                                    Friederich, Meine Mutter, und alle recht herzlich ganz Dein und Euer Chris-toph.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        flow of saliva, which I stimulate with senega root extract. Also the daughter of the
                                    Schaal's is afflicted with it. The others are improving. Hydrochloric acid
                                    is an excellent remedy in the treatment of it if used soon enough and after the
                                    patients have been purged and given laxatives. I have already recommended this
                                    treatment to William; should he be out of it [hydrochloric acid], he will be able to
                                    secure it from shepherds. Soon after Frederick left us I had intended operating on
                                    the daughter of the Wolfart's but as the outcome seemed doubtful and
                                    because of the deep incision which I should have been obliged to make between the
                                    ribs and extending to the chest wall, I was deterred; in addition there was a
                                    scrofulous hardening at the place where I wanted to make the
                                    incision.—Why don't I get a letter from William?
                        On the 13th and 14th I and many others felt great concern for Frederick and those who
                                    accompanied him. The Wagner woman especially caused me sore tribulation [or
                                    temptation?]. On Christmas I am resolved to speak on the salvation of
                                    sinners, a subject on which I possess a great deal of material. I shall be obliged
                                    to alternate now and then [in preaching] and at such times when I feel that you are
                                    not opposed to me and since it is demanded by many. Father, I am walking in the
                                    paths of lust, but I shall still render sufficient service to the Lord Jesus, to you
                                    and the community, because I have received mercy, therefore I believe, and on this
                                    subject I shall speak when I speak, I greet you, Frederick, my mother, and all
                                    others very heartily. Entirely yours, Christoph.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Lieber Vatter, Ich und die Mutter sind gesund und wohl, aber es ver langt uns recht
                                    sehr dich und die Gertraut und alle bald zu sehen, loch sei unbekummert wir kommen
                                    bald. Grusse dich und alle herzlich deine getreue Rosina.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Father,
                        I and mother are sound and well, but we long deeply to see you and Gertrude and all
                                    the others very soon. But don't be uneasy; we shall soon follow. I greet
                                    you and all heartily.
                        Your faithful Rosina.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dez 17
                        Lieber Friedrich!
                        Seit Deiner Abreise hat sich bey uns weiter nichts besonders zugetragen. —
                                    Anf angs dieser Woche war ich in Pittsburg und gerade war des Ewings partner nahmes
                                    Mr. Breding dort und hatte drey Drafts zwey von Vater einer mit 100, der andere mit
                                    2000 Thaler, welche beide indorsed waren von N. Ewings, aber der dritte den Jno L.
                                    Baker fur 3212.14 gegeben war nicht indorsed Die Bank wolte ihn dessentwegen auch
                                    nicht annehmen, bis Mr. Wallice als ein Freund und Bekannter von Ewings &
                                    Bred ing gut gesprochen und ein Schrei-ben gegeben hat, dass er wolte Bondsman seyn
                                    wan es Schwierig-keiten geben solte, worauf dem Bredig $1112.10 bezahlt
                                    wurde und das andere soll auf den Cr. der United states gebracht werden, das aber
                                    erst nach deiner zuruckkunft gethan werden wird—Das Silber soll
                                    gegenwartig in Philad. [Tear in MS] per c. werth seyn nehmlich gegen andere als ihre
                                    eigen [Tear in MS probably] thumer.
                        Heute haben wir auch 20 stuck jung Vieh nebst 4 Ochsen [Tear in MS] Bull fur
                                    $404 verkauft, ubri-gens geht alles fort wie gewohn-lich auch hat es in
                                    der manufacture nichts besonders gegeben, das Tuch verkauft gegenwartig zimmlich gut
                                    hir beim Stuck, das Pelzwerck haben wir die halfte an Hutton & Me. Gekle und
                                    die andere Hälfte an Jak. Jelly in Pittsb. geschikt, welche es fur uns
                                    verkaufen wollen,
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        December 17
                        Dear Frederick:
                        Since your departure nothing especially noteworthy has happened here. At the
                                    beginning of this week I was in 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     and at the same time a partner of Mr. Ewings by the name of Mr. Breding
                                    was present. He had three drafts, two from father, one of them for $1000,
                                    the other for $2000, both of which were indorsed by N. Ewings. But the
                                    third draft, which Jno. L. Baker had drawn for $3212.14, was not
                                    indorsed. For this reason the bank would not accept it until Mr. Wallice, as a
                                    friend and acquaintance of Ewings & Breding, went surety and by a note
                                    declared to be bondsman should any difficulties arise. Thereupon the bank paid
                                    Breding $1112. 10, and the remainder is to be placed to the credit of the 
                                        United States
                                    , but this will not be done until your return. Silver at present is said
                                    to be worth… per c. in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , that is the price the buyer has to pay.
                        Today we sold 20 head of young cattle, four oxen, and a bull for $404;
                                    indeed everything is going on as usual. In our manufacturing enterprise there is
                                    nothing out of the ordinary. Cloth is at present in fairly good demand by the piece.
                                    Half of our furs we sent to Hutton & Me Gekle and the other half to Jac.
                                    Jelly in 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , who are offering to sell them for us.
                        In conclusion, we are sound and well, but we are suffering great
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        —Übrigens sind wir gesund und wohl, aber wir fühlen
                                    grossen Mangel, der wie wir hoffen bey Deiner Ankunft wieder ersezt werden wird,
                                    unsre Sorge ist dass alles recht gehen möchte, und dass die Ei nigkeit
                                    bey uns nicht gestört werden möchte. Wir grüssen
                                    Dich und den Vater herzlich.
                        Romelius L. Baker
                        (Auch einen Gruss an die meini gen) Johannes Kuchart
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                         privation, which we hope will be relieved upon your return. Our wor ry is that all
                                    may turn out well and that the unity among us may not be destroyed. We greet you and
                                    father heartily.
                        Romelius L. Baker
                        Also a greeting to members of my family. John Kuchart
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Catholic Church in the Diocese of 
                            Vincennes
                        , 1847–1877. By Sister Mary Carol Schroeder. (Volume XXXV in the
                    Catholic University of America Studies in American Church History. The Catholic
                    University of America Press, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., 1946, pp. ix, 227. Bibliography and Index.)
            Sister Schroeder's volume sets out "to trace the progress of Catholicism in the
                    Diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                     during the episcopacies of John Stephen Bazin (October 1847-April 1848) and of Maurice
                    de St. Palais (1849–1877). In treating the era prior to the erection of the Diocese of
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1857, development throughout the whole of Indiana is considered since the diocese
                    was coextensive with the state; but in studying the period following that event attention is
                    confined to the southern part. Phrases of economic and social movements affecting religious
                    development are noted." The quotation is appropriate to the content of the book.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                    , the initial Catholic see in Indiana, was still a missionary diocese,
                    "depending upon financial contributions of European mission societies and friends of the
                    clergy …" for support, when Father Bazin became its bishop. Priests and other
                    religious leader.; were almost exclusively European-born, mainly French, but the laity was
                    principally German. The diocese lacked the formal ecclesiastical government and discipline often
                    found in established sees. It was deeply attached to its European moorings which lingered longer
                    than for Indiana Protestant groups whose origin represented a break with European tradition.
            The three decades from 1847–1877 were a period of substantial growth and expansion within
                    the diocese. These decades brought German clergy to the leadership of the diocese, the expansion and
                    development of educational activities, the growth of the church in urban centers and at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in particular, a marked increase in diocesan membership and personnel and a more formal
                    government structure. By 1877 European influences had been weakened and a spirit of American
                    Catholicism was in evidence. This study, a doctoral dissertation at The Catholic University of
                    America, reflects extensive research in Catholic sources including the University of Notre Dame
                    Archives. A knowledge of diocesan correspondence  regarding
                    trends and problems is reflected in the discussion of administrative matters, parochial needs,
                    educational programs, Civil War attitudes, and post-war developments.
            When the author connects Catholic developments with the general currents in Indiana, the result is
                    less satisfactory. The influence of railroads in diverting trade to the East is probably
                    overstressed and the bibliography is minus the study of this question by Albert L. Kohlmeier in his
                        The Old Northwest … (
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, 1938). Southern Indiana was a Democratic stronghold during the Civil War and
                    had been a generation, however, there was solid and strong Union sentiment among those who followed
                    the Jacksonian tradition. The Know-Nothing movement in Indiana was certainly guilty of prejudice and
                    excesses as indicated, yet this movement would not have gained the strength which it did had it not
                    been in part the result of the attitude and policy of some Catholics regarding public schools, to
                    cite but one issue. The attachment to European moorings so apparent in pioneer Catholicism sheds
                    further light on the background of the Know-Nothing movement. There are a few minor slips such as
                    that citing James Whitcomb as governor during 1844–1843 (pp. 32, 126). Whitcomb was
                    elected in 1843 and re-elected in 1846 but resigned in 1848. Chapter V gives scant attention to
                    efforts to improve education before 1846.
            This volume is a desirable and useful contribution t:, the history of religion in Indiana. It is
                    regretted that other religious groups are generally not doing an equal amount to preserve and write
                    their history. No history of this or any other state can be complete without devoting considerable
                    attention to the development and influence of religious thought and life.
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Theodore Roosevelt and the Progressive Movement. By George E. Mowry. (University
                    of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , 1946, pp. viii, 405. Bibliography and Index.
                    $4.00.)
            This study constitutes neither a comprehensive biography of the first Roosevelt nor a history of the
                    Progressive Movement. Rather, it attempts to delineate the assistance rendered the progressive cause
                    by Roosevelt and to judge whether that,  aid sprang from
                    conviction or from nothing deeper than the opportunism of a masterful political leader who
                    understood the direction of the tide.
            As for the first, Mowry credits T. R. with being progressivism's best publicity man and with
                    "achieving the possible" in a divided congress. As for motives, he believes
                    Roosevelt to have been an opportunist with honest reform leanings. He was at his happiest when the
                    expediency dictated by his desire for power coincided with reform. Though this judgment would have
                    been anathema to his admiring contemporaries, it is less severe than that accorded him by such
                    recent historians as Henry F. Pringle. To the same degree, William Howard Taft's reputation
                    suffers from these pages.
            It is understandable that Roosevelt's record would appear lo better advantage following the
                    recent release of his voluminous correspondence for the period since 1909. This study is one of the
                    first to make use of these manuscripts, and the author's interest in them is indicated by
                    his hasty disposition of Roosevelt's years as president in a single, introductory chapter.
                    In comparison, the following four years make up the next nine chapters and two-thirds of the volume.
                    The one theme dominating them is the Taft-Roosevelt split.
            According to Mowry, T. R. returned from his African hunt with no premeditated intention of breaking
                    with Taft but with fear in his heart that the growing division between the conservative and
                    progressive Republicans might give victory to the Democrats. And "to the normal Roosevelt
                    way of thinking even a reactionary Republican of the deepest hue was an infinitely better citizen
                    than the best of Democrats/’ His immediate goal, therefore, was to restore harmony by
                    spreading assurances to both groups. Taft's apparent inability to mend the schism worried
                    him more than did the President's conservatism.
            The next year saw the two leaders drift apart, but a decisive turning point, the author believes, did
                    not occur until October 27, 1911. On that day the Taft Administration announced that it had begun an
                    anti-trust suit against the Untied States Steel Corporation for its purchase of the 
                        Tennessee
                     Coal and Iron Company. Whereas, T. R., when president, had given the merger his
                    blessing, the suit prodded him into that feeling of righteous indignation which rose so quickly at
                    any suggestion of his having made a major error.
            
            Publicly, however, he still moved with caution, and it was only after he became convinced that he
                    could actually win the Republican nomination away from Taft that he entered the lists. By the time
                    that effort failed his commitments and emotions pushed him into the fatal third party move, in
                    which, according to his private correspondence, he expected nothing but defeat.
            In the long run, Mowry asserts, the Bull Moose split was more harmful than otherwise to the liberal
                    cause. For when the chastened Progressives returned to the Republican fold their influence was gone,
                    and the party was to be consistently conservative through the next generation. In his closing years,
                    Roosevelt, himself, turned to military preparedness, nationalism, and conservatism.
            The excellent style of this book could have been further improved by more economical phrasing. The
                    most serious criticism in the eyes of this reviewer, however, is the inordinate amount of space
                    given to the years 1909–1912, with consequent slighting of other periods. The explanation
                    for T. R.'s decision to head a third party in 1912 is not entirely satisfying in the light
                    of his usual antipathy for foredoomed causes. After he failed to get the Republican nomination he
                    could have launched another of his hunting trips or retired to his tent. Perhaps the progressive
                    split was not as much responsible for Republican conservatism in the twenties as were the war,
                    prosperity, and the basic rural and business nature of its composition.
            These judgments are intended as casual remarks on a valuable study rather than as sweeping
                    criticisms.
            Cedric Cummins
         
         
            
               A Shelf of Lincoln Books, a critical selective bibliography of Lincolniana. By
                    Paul M. Angle. (Rutgers University Press, 
                  New
                        Brunswick, New Jersey
               , in
                    association with The Abraham Lincoln Association of 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , 1946,
                    pp. xvii, 142. $3.00.)
            For the many students of Lincoln's career, who are not experts or authorities, this little
                    bibliography is essential. Angle has furnished them a guidebook through the intricacies of the
                    writings of and about Lincoln.
            The writings and speeches of the Civil War President  were not
                    all published by John G. Nicholay and John Hay and the student will want to know where to find the
                    more recently discovered items and the trustworthiness of the various editors and compilers.
            The task of writing an adequate life of Lincoln has been too difficult for the biographers, each of
                    whom had their deficiencies, but many of whom had their virtues. Angle treats them fairly and points
                    out their strong and weak points. Nicholay gives us "excellent summaries of all the major
                    problems of the war and Lincoln's attitude towards them … [p. 411."
                    Barton "is still the best source for the ancestry of Lincoln, both maternal and paternal
                    … [p. 49]." "Beveridge's account of the Indiana period of
                    Lincoln's life is unrivalled …. His is by long odds the best and most exhaustive
                    treatment of Lincoln's eight years in the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature, and of his one term in the national House of Representatives. In fact,
                    Beveridge's account of Lincoln's entire political career, including party
                    management as well as office holding, is unsurpassed, and not likely to be excelled [p.
                    55]."
            The special studies and monographs are also treated in similar manner. One work is evaluated thusly:
                    "A compilation that could have been enormously valuable to the general reading public is
                    actually often misleading …. [p. 97]." Where to go to learn about constitutional
                    matters, personal finances, or any of a number of special phases of his life, is answered in the
                    discussion of these works.
            The bibliography at the end of the volume includes the studies which the author has evaluated. It,
                    therefore, includes some eighty-one items and constitutes "A Shelf of Lincoln
                    Books" about which the student of Lincoln should be well informed.
            This excellent guide and the inclusive Lincoln Bibliography by Jay Monaghan places
                    th; student of this period at a point of tremendous advantage and under a great debt to these two
                    Lincoln scholars.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Theory and Practice in Historical Study: A Report of the Committee
                        on Historiography. (Bulletin 54, Social Science Research Council, 
                        New York
                    , 1946, pp. xii, 177. Index and Bibliography. Paper $1.75, Cloth
                    $2.25.)
            This report is a composite reaction to the historical philosophy 
                    of Charles A. Beard. The early pages are quite Beardian, but the committee, apparently, was not in
                    complete agreement, for there is at least a thread of inconsistency throughout the volume. The
                    second chapter is highly critical of the early historians who introduced to this country scientific
                    methods in history and seems to assume that the historical profession has advanced beyond scientific
                    history to the conscious propagation of hypothesis of human conduct. The third chapter, if not the
                    remainder of the book, does not possess this slant and seems to hold fast to scientific ideals.
            Beard, in the first chapter, wrote an excellent statement of the importance of studying and writing
                    history, with which historians are not likely to find fault. He desires a reconsideration of our
                    methods and the context of our work, but leaves the further development of his ideas to others.
            These ideas, as stated by the authors of the second chapter, involve the assertion that historians
                    have not and cannot assume an objective attitude. Since this is true, they should choose their bias,
                    their "principle of selection," and proceed to choose and organize their facts
                    upon this basis. Since each period writes its own history, and since the Beardians are not satisfied
                    to write for their own generation, they must peer into the future and choose their
                    "principle of selection" by guessing what the future is to be. "The
                    historian must thus choose among the various possibilities of the present that tendency, that
                    predicted future, which he judges to be dynamic or controlling …. Since the future is not
                    foreseeable in detail—though many elements in it can be predicted, … the
                    historian's choice of a principle of selection necessarily involved a choice of allegiance,
                    an act of faith in one kind of future rather than another." To be logical, the authors of
                    the second chapter should have proposed university chairs of historical prediction to assist
                    historians in their knowledge of the future in order that they might write about the past.
            The conscious choice of a "principle of selection" is treated as though it would
                    overcome the demonstrated frailty of the poor historian to be biased, but it is more likely to add
                    one more bias. The emphasis placed upon his inability to escape his prejudices, hardly seems to be
                    the best method of overcoming them. How, may we ask, will the historian be helped in writing the
                    territorial history of Indiana by guessing that the 
                        United States
                     is about to adopt laissez faire  or communism as a
                    national policy? Is it not better to study the records and write in as detached a manner
                    as possible what the records seem to reveal? Can we of the twentieth century write a
                    history of the past that will be acceptable to the twenty-first century?
            When we turn to the third chapter, we come to something very different. It is a review of historical
                    writing about the causes of the American Civil War. It demonstrates the frail ties of historians,
                    but it also reveals a growing realization of the complexity of causation, the broadening content of
                    history, and a more mature understanding of the problem. It also indicates that some historians have
                    been able to overcome the peculiar bias which they might be expected to show. The author, Howard K.
                    Beale, concludes "This study has encouraged the present writer … to believe that
                    the repeated of forts to discover the ‘truth’ about causes of the Civil War
                    have been fruitful and that both the methods and quality of history have improved in the period
                    analyzed." Additional studies of this type should be encouraged.
            The fourth, fifth, and sixth chapters are valuable. They contain a discussion of "The Need
                    for Greater Precision in the Use of Historical Terms," a series of propositions on
                    historical procedure, and a reading list. The propositions scarcely embody the Beardian ideas.
            Whether the report justifies the labor of such eminent, historians, as the committee members and the
                    authors, and the backing of such distinguished societies as the national associations of the
                    anthropologists, economists, historian:;, political scientists, psychologists, sociologists, and
                    statisticians. in addition to the Social Science Research Council, each reader may decide for
                    himself.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Notes on General Ashley, The Overland Trail, and South Pass. By Donald McKay
                    Frost. (American Antiquarian Society, 
                  Worcester,
                            Massachusetts
               , 1945, pp. 159. Map and
                    Index. $2.00.)
            Information concerning the activities of many of the American fur traders remains scattered,
                    conflicting, and vague. In view of this, the volume under review is most welcome because Donald
                    McKay Frost, the editor, has here brought together a number of items concerning the fur trading  exploits of the notable General William H. Ashley during the
                    year 1822 to 1826. Moreover, the editor has prefaced his selected materials with a 58-page foreword
                    containing comments on the accompanying documents, a critical estimate of the activities and
                    accomplishments of Ashley and his associates, and a sketch of American fur trading in general during
                    the years previously indicated.
            Republished here are three revealing letters of Daniel T. Potts which originally appeared in the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Gazette and Daily Advertiser, 1826 and 1827, and miscellaneous but pertinent
                    newspaper articles, covering the years 1822 to 1830. Also included is ail excellent map showing the
                    routes of Ashley's men.
            The editor deserves praise for his careful workmanship and for the precise and interesting treatment
                    of his subject. It is his candid opinion that General Ashley was more interested in making money
                    than he was in exploring. He was, however, a good organizer, and the men in his employ were those
                    who "ascertained the most practical route from the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley across the Continental Divide"—notably, the great Overland
                    Trail.
            Oscar Osburn Winther
         
         
            
               The Diary of a Public Man and a Page of Political Corre spondence, Stanton to
                        Buchanan. Foreword by Carl Sancl burg, prefatory notes by F. Lauriston Bullard
                            (
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               , Rutgers University Press, 1946, pp. ix, 137.
                    $3.00.)
            This volume is merely a less expensive edition of the book reviewed in the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, XLI, Sep tember, 1945, p. 304. As such it comes within the reach of
                    many more readers, and serves every purpose that the expensive edition will serve, except that of
                    being a very fine book. The contents are as intriguing as ever and the problem of authorship still
                    remains unsolved.
         
         
         
            Errata
            In the September, 1946, issue of the Magazine the articie entitled, "Why
                    Was the Democratic Party in Indiana A Rad ical Party, 1865–1890?"
                    page 224, line 14, after the word "plain" should be inserted the following
                    sentence: "The coun ties of the central plain were in alliance with certain clounties of
                    the northwest." In the same article, page 228, line 19, read "In
                    1890" for "In 1880."
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
