
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 73, Issue 2, pages 79-172. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:73+issue:2+year:1977&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Forgotten Feminist: The Early Writings of Ida Husted Harper, 1878–1894
            
                    Nancy Baker Jones
                    ∗
                
            Early in the 1870s a young woman secretly began sending articles under a male pseudonym to the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Saturday Evening Mail. Not until September, 1882, did her name, Ida Husted Harper,
                    appear with her writings.1 In addition to writing for the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Saturday Evening Mail, Harper later accepted Eugene V. Debs' advice to
                    "get the railroaders' wives interested in the Brotherhood." From 1883 to
                    1894 she wrote a monthly column, "The Woman's Department," in the Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, the house organ of Debs'
                    Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen. And for a brief period in 1890 Harper was managing editor of the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Daily News, leading it through a spirited local election and supporting reform
                    candidates who eventually won.2
            
            In her writings and in the manner of her living Harper challenged the dominant view of women and
                    women's place in late nineteenth century society. But Harper herself was deeply affected by
                    that society, as her views on women's rights clearly show. Not willing to accept the role
                    assigned to nineteenth century women, she also was unable or unwilling to argue consistently for
                    full equality between the sexes. Instead, she stood as a transitional figure, struggling with her
                    readers in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , with her colleagues in the 
                  
                     ∗ Nancy Baker Jones is the coordinator of communications
                            and resources, Midwest Center for Equal Educational Opportunity, University of
                                    
                        Missouri, Columbia
                     .
                  
                     1 Clifton J. Phillips, "Ida A. Husted Harper," in
                            Edward T. James, Janet Wilson James, and Paul S. Boyer, eds., Notable American
                                Women, 1607–1950: A Biographical Dictionary (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971), 139; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, September 9, 1882.
                  
                     2 Ray Ginger, The Bending Cross: A Biography of Eugene V.
                                Debs (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N. J., 1949), 31; Phillips, "Ida A. Husted Harper,"
                        139.
               
                     women's rights movement, and perhaps with herself to
                    define a better yet socially acceptable position for women, a position between submissiveness and
                    full equality.
            The nineteenth century society in which Harper lived and about which she wrote dictated a specific
                    mold for its women. The feminine ideal was innocent like Henry James' Daisy Miller,
                    helpless like Nathaniel Hawthorne's Priscilla, self denying and devoted as Louisa May
                    Alcott was to her ailing father, and in general purer, more generous than, and morally superior to
                        men.3 But women were also weaker and less intelligent than men, a
                    supposition approved by medical science. In 1873, for example, Dr. Edward H. Clarke wrote that
                    because of the female's larger, more complicated, and more important "reproductive
                    apparatus" and because mental activity exerted a greater "sterilizing
                    influence" on the female than on the male, identical education of the two sexes was
                    "a crime before God and humanity" which would result in the propagation of
                    inferior beings.4 Several years later Dr. A. Hughes Bennett stated flatly that
                    women's mental powers were less than men's because their brains were smaller.
                    Women, he said, were also physically weaker than men, more "nervous and
                    hysterical," more talented at nonessential detail work, more emotional, and generally
                    suited only for marriage and child rearing.5
            
            Such images of the feminine ideal were widely transmitted in the mass circulated ladies magazines
                    that had first gained popularity in the 1840s and in newspapers, including those for which Harper
                    wrote. The pure, pious, domestic, submissive feminine ideal was also reflected in sentimental poetry
                    and fiction. Women who did not meet the ideal, or who rejected it, were, like Hawthorne's
                    Zenobia, treated as mysterious creatures, veiled in black and destined for self destruction.6
            
            
               
                  3 David M. Kennedy, Birth Control in America: The Career of
                            Margaret Sanger (
                            New Haven
                        , 1970), 50–60.
               
                  4 Edward H. Clarke, Sex In Education; or, A Fair Chance For
                            Girls (
                            Boston
                        , 1873), 127, 137, 139.
               
                  5 A. Hughes Bennett, "Hygiene in the Higher Education of
                        Women," Popular Science Monthly, XVI (February, 1880),
                        519–30. See also Carroll Smith-Rosenberg and Charles Rosen berg, "The Female
                        Animal: Medical and Biological Views of Woman and Her Role in Nineteenth-Century
                        America," Journal of American History, LX (September, 1973),
                        332–56.
               
                  6 Leslie A. Fiedler, Love and Death in the American
                        Novel (
                            New York
                        , 1966), 223–24, 291–312; Barbara Welter, "The Cult
                        of True Womanhood: 1820–1860," American Quarterly, XVIII
                        (Summer, 1966), 152, 174.
            
            
            The extent to which the feminine ideal took root in Indiana in the late nineteenth century is
                    indicated in the legal position of Hoosier women. Divorce laws specified that husbands bear the
                    expenses of court action and alimony; remarried women could not sell or give away their property
                    with or without their husbands' consent; and possession of all birth control devices was
                    illegal. In addition, widowers received all of their deceased wives' property, while widows
                    were required to divide their husbands' property with their children. Indiana manufacturers
                    were bound to provide seats for their women employees and to allow them to use the seats
                    "when they are not necessarily engaged in the active duties for which they are
                    employed." Boys under fourteen and all women were forbidden from working in coal mines, and
                    one law stated that no person under sixteen and no woman under eighteen could be required to work
                    more than sixty hours a week or ten hours a day.7 Of course, not all women, or
                    men, accepted the feminine ideal. In 1848, three years before Harper's birth, hundreds of
                    men and women met at Seneca Falls, 
                        New York
                    , to proclaim women's equality with men and women's right to speak and
                    act freely. In 1851 Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton began a long and productive
                    friendship that centered on their interest in women's rights, particularly suffrage. Also
                    in that year Sojourner Truth, the slave who had sued for her son's freedom and won,
                    presented her eloquent "And ain' I a woman?" speech at a women's
                    rights convention in 
                        Ohio
                    .8
            
            In 1851 Indiana's earliest women's suffrage society was formed at 
                        Dublin
                    . In 1859 Mary F. Thomas and other Hoosier women presented their women's rights
                    petition to the Indiana legislature. These efforts to contradict the feminine ideal met with
                    derision and rebuke; but they meant that Ida Husted Harper was not acting alone or without precedent
                    when she began writing about women's rights in the 1870s.9
            
            
               
                  7Indiana, Laws (1873), 111–12; (1875), 179;
                        (1877), 56; (1899), 131; (1891), 331; (1897), 101.
               
                  8 Gerda Lerner, The Woman in American History (Menlo
                        Park, Calif., 1971), 83, 88, 38.
               
                  9 Pat Creech Scholten, "A Public
                        ‘Jollification’: The 1859 Women's Rights Petition before the
                        Indiana Legislature," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXII (December,
                        1976), 347–59; Ida Husted Harper and Susan B. Anthony, eds., History of
                            Woman Suffrage, 1883–1900 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1902), 614. This is Volume IV of the History of Woman Suffrage.
                        Previous volumes were edited by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Matilda Joslyn
                        Gage. Harper edited volumes IV, V, and VI.
            
            
            Ida Husted was born in 
                  Fairfield, Indiana
               , February 18, 1851, the eldest of three children. Interested
                    in obtaining good educations for their children, her parents later moved the family to 
                        Muncie
                    . In 1868 Ida entered Indiana University but left after one year to become, at eighteen,
                    the high school principal at 
                  Peru, Indiana
               . Three years later she married Thomas W. Harper and moved with
                    him to 
                        Terre Haute
                     where he later became city attorney and chief legal counsel for Debs'
                    Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and where she began her career as a feminist.10
            
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1871 was a town of approximately 25,000 residents. Bounded by the Wabash
                        River and crossed by the National Road, it was economically dependent upon railroads,
                    coal mines, distilleries, breweries, and foundries. 
                        Terre Haute
                     also claimed in the early 1870s two colleges, two hotels, six banks, and several
                        churches.11 A contemporary historical sketch of the town boasted that, in
                    addition to its fertile atmosphere for business growth, "the moral character of our city is
                    at least equal to that of any other city, where an equal amount of business is done."12 Besides its businesses and institutions 
                        Terre Haute
                     also supported four newspapers. The contemporary account noted above described the Saturday Evening Mail, for which Harper wrote, as containing "the
                    choicest short stories, the current news of the day, spicy paragraphs, and epitome of the city news,
                    personals, etc." And the newspaper claimed the largest circulation of any state paper
                    except those published in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .13
            
            Harper's column in the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Evening Mail, "A Woman's Opinions," was not unusual in
                    its title or concept. The Evening Mail regularly published articles for and about
                    women. Such columns as "A Woman's Thoughts,"
                    "Feminitems," "Fashion Fancies," and "Feminine
                    Freaks" appeared on the front page and superseded local and national news. In July, 1881,
                    notice of the shooting of President James Garfield appeared on page four. Only his death in
                    September 
                  
                     10 Phillips, "Ida A. Husted Harper," 139.
                  
                     11 Loren Hassam, A Historical Sketch of
                                        
                           Terre Haute, Indiana
                        , Its Advantages for Manufacture and Attractions
                                as a Home (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1873), 22.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 21.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 58; 
                        
                                    Terre Haute City
                                 Directory (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1881), 300.
               
                     removed the chatty columns from page one.14
                    Many of these columns appeared prior to Harper's, and some continued after "A
                    Woman's Opinions" had disappeared. But the sphere of each was in keeping with the
                    feminine ideal: fireside, family, fashion, food.
            Harper included these subjects among her offerings, but she also wrote on a topic infrequently seen
                    in the Evening Mail—women's rights. In one of her early
                    columns Harper defined women's rights as "the right to pursue whatever vocation in
                    life she is best adapted for …."15 Equal rights, then,
                    involved simply the right to earn a living at whatever a woman felt qualified to do. By
                    today's standards the definition was a narrow one. But the middle or upper class white
                    woman of the nineteenth century was not expected to work, or even to want to work outside the home.
                    The feminine ideal dictated that she remain at home while her husband provided the family's
                    income. If she did work, it was only because she had to. Harper proselytized especially for the
                    cause of those women who were forced to work to survive. But she also wrote forcefully about other
                    subjects: womanhood, marriage, divorce, careers, education, temperance, and suffrage—all
                    of which were gradually added to her concept of women's rights.
            The philosophy of the feminine ideal made its mark on Harper, for throughout her writings ran one
                    constant assumption —that a woman would marry and have a family. She also believed that
                    women were the moral superiors of men and that women's participation in activities
                    traditionally proscribed to men would raise the quality of those activities. Often she stereotyped
                    women as gossiping, flirtatious, jealous, and unreliable. Yet she could also write of their
                    strength, suffering, and sisterhood. She never wrote about her own life, which frequently
                    contradicted her writings, but Harper seldom described specific situations. Rather, she generalized
                    about the subject at hand. As such, Harper's writings frequently became florid,
                    exaggerated, simplistic. She was at her best when she narrowed her sights.
            Harper's first column in 1878 in the Evening Mail dealt with religion, not
                    women's rights. She asked to be excused 
                  
                     14
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, July 9, 1881, September 24, 1881.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., October 25, 1879.
               
                    
                    
                  IDA HUSTED HARPER
                  Reproduced from Susan B. Anthony and Ida Husted Harper, eds., History of Woman Suffrage (
                                Rochester
                            , 1902), 1042.
               
                     by the male writer of "Town Talk," whose ideas
                    she was refuting, and admitted that he had the "advantage over [her] in age, sex, wisdom
                    and experience," but that she would, nevertheless, throw "a little
                    ‘paper-wad’ … at [his] bald and venerable head." She then
                    proceded to support statements made by "the great agnostic," Robert Ingersoll,
                    that lessons of hell's fire and damnation should be expunged from the creeds of all
                        churches.16 While primarily concerned with the Ingersoll controversy, two
                    columns later Harper touched on women's rights for the first time: 
                        If I should write this: "There are four seasons, Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter.
                            Some like Spring best, some like Summer best, some like Autumn best and some like Winter
                            best, but as for me, give me Liberty or give me Death," some captious critic would
                            come out with an article next week discussing the propriety of a woman's asking for Liberty.17
                  
                    
            
            Although she wrote with wit and humor, Harper did not consider the women's rights issue a
                    joke. She discussed it in her column so frequently that she received requests, especially from men,
                    that she cease. "When all the wrongs shall have been righted," she replied,
                    "the laws revised, the disabilities removed and equal rights secured in every respect, then
                    will the conscientious woman feel that she can afford to speak and write upon other
                        topics."18 Besides, she wrote, men were responsible for the unequal
                    status of women. Men made the laws and established the customs which barred women from true
                    equality. Only through the consent of men could women enter colleges, speak in public, and choose
                    careers. And it would be only by men's favor that women would someday be allowed to vote.
                    Truly, the "opposing force" was men, who considered "the greatest favor
                    they could confer was to marry [a woman] and allow her the privilege of keeping house for
                        them."19
            
            Men certainly led more tranquil lives than women, Harper believed. At one point she asked if there
                    existed "one single advantage" to being a woman: "If Heaven is anything
                    like this world we do not care to be an angel or carry a palm or play on a harp but only to be a man
                    and take 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., October 26, 1878.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., November 9, 1878.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., May 31, 1884.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., January 19, 1884.
               
                     our chances." Little girls with tomboy preferences were
                    restricted to more feminine pursuits. And when they grew up they were constricted by corseted
                    clothes that made walking a "punishment rather than a pleasure." As a housewife,
                    the woman worked as many hours as her husband but with no pay. Instead, she was required to ask for
                    money, then make a full accounting of it to her husband. She bore the pain of childbirth and the
                    trials of child rearing but lost the children in the event of a divorce. Even at her death the woman
                    could not will her possessions as she wished: they belonged to the husband. And if she chose to
                    work, the woman faced a plethora of problems: sex discrimination, low wages, poor working
                    conditions, easy dismissal. "In short," Harper wrote, "it is utterly
                    impossible for a woman to be thoroughly independent."20
            
            Even in the face of these seemingly obvious injustices Harper believed many men feared the results if
                    women were given equal rights. Men were afraid that when women became independent "their
                    charm will disappear, and their influence will be material rather than spiritual." Harper
                    exclaimed, "God Forbid!" and then added, "to give a woman every
                    opportunity for development which is enjoyed by man, will tend to make her more nearly the perfect
                    and ideal woman."21
            
            Harper's image of the perfect and ideal woman vascillated in her writings. On one hand she
                    declared that women were "the synonym of delicacy, of clinging trustfulness, of tender
                    helplessness"and that the "moral nature of women is, and ever will be, of a higher
                    nature than that of man."22 But on the other hand she believed women
                    were gossipy, had an "overpowering desire" to find bargains, and that they tried
                    to show off only their favorable attributes before marriage.23 She also wrote
                    that their "strongest sentiments" were devotion to children and love of home, that
                    a woman naturally craved a home and would remain forever discontented without one.24 Although Harper placed "earnest, sincere" women 
                  
                     20 Ibid., October 6, 1883.
                  
                     21 Ida Harper, "The Woman of the Future," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, XVI (February, 1892), 121.
                  
                     22 Terra Haute Saturday Evening Mail, March 31,
                            1883.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., November 9, 1878, January 20, 1883, May 12, 1883.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., July 5, 1884.
               
                     in an elevated position as the "salvation of
                    mankind," she could close a column praising a woman run hotel with the declaration
                    "let us leave the subject of women who are, after all, somewhat of a bore
                        …."25
            
            Harper's conflicting ideas on women appeared most evident in her writings on the
                    woman's place in marriage. In an article much like a modern personal advice column Harper
                    counselled women about choosing mates. Ignoring considerations that might favor a more equal status
                    for the woman, Harper urged women to seek temperance above all, and then strong character, sound
                    business ability, and finally a good disposition, which was essential if a woman's
                    home-making abilities were to be appreciated.26 In another article Harper stated
                    unequivocally that "there is no one thing on earth a woman desires so much as a home. She
                    who does not is an anomaly, there is something radically wrong about her." Yet she had
                    written five years earlier that there was no longer any discredit if a woman did not marry, as there
                    had been "in those days when a woman's life was considered a failure unless she
                    prefixed ‘Mrs.’ to her name."27
            
            Harper advised men to look for a woman with a good disposition first, then similarity of tastes and
                    housekeeping abilities. Although Harper predicted that a good wife would be an asset to a
                    man's career, in her view the man was obviously the center of the marriage.28 But much later, in 1888, she wrote of the need for complete equality in marriage and
                    villified any idea that a wife should obey her husband. "The very idea seems
                    ridiculous," she wrote. "To obey another means to be ruled by this person. In a
                    true marriage there will be no question as to which shall govern the other but it will be an equal
                    partnership in every respect." Then she added: 
                        The surprising part of it is that many honest, conscientious, God-fearing wives are so
                            influenced by a sickly religious sentiment as to believe that the Lord intended the husband
                            should be the master. They have been taught this doctrine by men-preachers from a Bible
                            prepared by men-translators.
                        
                     
                        25
                                Ibid., June 20, 1883, October 7, 1882.
                     
                        26
                                Ibid., February 8, 1879.
                     
                        27
                                Firemen's Magazine, VIII (July, 1884), 410; 
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                                Saturday Evening Mail, April 19, 1879.
                     
                        28
                                
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                                Saturday Evening Mail, February 1, 1879.
                  
                        
                        We may read nine-tenths of the Bible without finding it but when we come to the last tenth we
                            find this dreadful bugaboo, which has been used to discipline women for hundreds of years,
                            appears alone in the writings of Saul, who had to be struck blind before he would believe in
                            the Lord, and who then began to exercise all that bigotry and intolerance characteristic of
                            a new convert.29
                  
                    
            
            Early in her career, in 1879, Harper wrote that a happy marriage itself was "the fairest and
                    sweetest portion of a woman's life."30 At the time she was
                    alarmed by the climbing divorce rate and wondered if stricter divorce laws should be enacted.31 But in 1890, just before her thirty-ninth birthday, Harper's own
                    marriage ended in divorce, at her initiative.32 Even so, later that year Harper
                    wrote that a happy marriage lay "at the very foundation of the country's purity
                    and prosperity," and that it should be "cherished as the pearl of great
                    price." In fact, "no institution in all the world" could compare in
                    importance to marriage.33
            
            By 1890 Harper was well aware that not all marriages were happy, and she at least recognized divorce,
                    if only as the last resort, when there was no hope for "reconciliation, for reform, or for
                    happiness." For women who could not or would not seek divorce, Harper advised that the best
                    way to "escape" the "abject misery" of an unhappy marriage was
                    to busy oneself fully with "some congenial pursuit."34 The
                    greatest cause of divorce, she wrote, was "the absence of the husband at night."
                    She did not advocate preventing him from an occasional evening with his friends, but she also did
                    not advocate his being gone frequently.35 By the same logic Harper believed that
                    women should have a lodge in which to spend "a pleasant evening once a week. A
                    woman," she 
                  
                     29 Ida Harper, "Obedience," Locomotive
                                Firemen's Magazine, XII (October, 1888), 749–50.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, February 15, 1879.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., March 1, 1879.
                  
                     32 Index of Suits Decided, No. 1, February 10, 1890, 
                                Vigo County
                             Records, 
                                Vigo County
                             Court House, 
                                Terre Haute
                            . Although the Harpers' divorce is recorded in county books, the papers
                            themselves are missing from county files. Hence, no reason for the divorce is available from
                            this source.
                  
                     33 Ida Harper, "A Plea for Bachelors," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, XIV (March, 1890), 222–23; Ida
                            Harper, "The Wife's Smile," ibid., XIV (April,
                            1890), 312–13; Ida Harper, "A Word About Marriage," ibid., XIV (July, 1890), 608.
                  
                     34 Ida Harper, "A Chapter for Wives," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, XVI (April, 1892), 315.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, March 22, 1884.
               
                     added, "grows lonely and tired and disheartened from
                    close confinement and household cares day after day and month after month."36 She stated flatly that "if a husband may say ‘you have food,
                    clothes, and shelter, that is sufficient,’ by the same logic the wife can say,
                    ‘your home is in order, your meals are ready, your clothes are mended, it is not your
                    business what my habits are or where I spend my nights.’ "37
            
            The household duties which might drive a woman to depression also generated some conflict in
                    Harper's writings. In one place she drew a picture of idealistic, if stereotyped, domestic
                    happiness which comfortably fit into the nineteenth century mold for women: "Woman is made
                    for home. With comfortable surroundings, a loving, congenial husband, and good, affectionate
                    children, every woman can be happy and contented. If all could attain this ideal life, we would hear
                    no petition for more ‘rights,’ divorces would be unknown, women would not go
                    forth to labor for existence, and the whole world would be full of peace and happiness."
                    But in the same article Harper also asserted ideas which carried modern tones of sisterhood and
                    solidarity: "Women must work for women. We must advise, encourage, sustain and sympathize
                    with one another. Only women can understand the needs of women and can appreciate the difficulties
                    and temptations, the cares and burdens and disappointments that rise up in the path. Men are kind,
                    they are helpful, but the strength and support a woman most needs, must come from those of her own
                        sex."38
            
            Harper also expressed ambivalent notions about child-bearing. "The highest praise that can
                    be given a woman," she wrote in 1886, "is to say she is a good mother, wife, and
                    housekeeper. Afterwards, if you please, a writer, a singer, a scholar, a
                        philanthropist."39 But in 1879 she had questioned: "why
                    should every woman's life be a sacrifice? All women are no more fitted to be mothers than
                    all men are to be fathers, and even if a woman be possessed of those qualities that fit her for
                    motherhood, it may be that she chooses to exercise them in some other direction and she herself,
                    should 
                  
                     36
                            Firemen's Magazine, VII (April, 1883), 169.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, March 22, 1884.
                  
                     38
                            Firemen's Magazine, VIII (May, 1884), 290.
                  
                     39 Ida Harper, "A Chat About Housekeeping," ibid., X (May, 1886), 290.
               
                     be sole judge in this matter."40 In
                    the same 1879 column there appeared a blunt statement about the birth of female children. The mother
                    of a large family, Harper wrote, "prays in secret that her daughters may be spared the
                    trials of a large family. It is very rarely that you find a mother who wishes her daughter to have
                        children."41 Later, however, in 1883, Harper romanticized the
                    cycle: the kindness and devotion a husband showed to his wife when she had to care for infants would
                    "fill the young mother's heart with a happiness and gratitude that will last
                    until, with tear-filled eyes, she shall see her own beloved daughters go forth into the world to
                    find, for themselves, the same old but ever new experience."42 Still
                    later, in 1887, Harper returned to a less romantic view—that the physical, mental, and
                    nervous strain of bearing children "exceeds any other demand that may be made upon the
                        system."43
            
            Ambivalence was evident again in Harper's attitude toward working women, especially working
                    wives. She wrote in November, 1882, that working women in general never surpassed mediocrity because
                    they brought a "divided energy" to every business pursuit. Their energies were
                    split between work and home in every case: single women were too concerned with marrying to seek
                    promotion, or even to continue working; and since married women worked only in the event of
                    financial necessity or divorce, their interests were clouded by thoughts of home or sorrow. Besides,
                    Harper believed, a marriage contract obliged the woman to tend to home and family; she had
                    "no right" to violate such a contract.44
            
            Just four months later Harper urged that women be given full opportunities to fulfill themselves at
                    whatever work they chose. "It would be an unwarrantable impertinence for women to dictate
                    to men what vocation in life they shall be compelled to pursue," she wrote forcefully.
            
                    Is it not then equally officious for men to designate just what particular work women shall and
                        shall not do? If a woman has inclination, talent, 
                     
                        40
                                
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                                Saturday Evening Mail, February 22, 1879.
                     
                        41
                                Ibid. Although Harper advocated small families ("what we need
                                is not more men and women, but better and more intelligent ones"), she did not
                                mention birth control in this or any other column of this period.
                     
                        42 Ida Harper, "The Young Mother," Firemen's Magazine, VIII (December, 1883), 556.
                     
                        42 Ida Harper, "The Unvarnished Truth," ibid., XI (March, 1887), 165.
                     
                        44
                                
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                                Saturday Evening Mail, November 18, 1882.
                  
                         and fitness for some special calling, there is where she
                        belongs; and if, through force of circumstance or prejudice she is compelled to devote her time
                        and energy to uncongenial labor, the result is the same as in the case of a man—a
                        fruitless, discontented, undeveloped life.45
               
                
            In the same spirit she declared in 1884 that the proper work for a woman was "whatever she
                    is best fitted by nature and education to do."46 Here Harper apparently
                    meant that women should seek their own level in employment at whatever they felt capable of doing.
                    But the key word in the quotation for understanding Harper's ideas was
                    "nature." Quite in keeping with the feminine ideal, she believed that it was
                    "the whole nature" of a woman to seek marriage, that it was "natural for
                    women to love home and children above everything else in the world." The domestic instinct
                    was "born" in most women. It followed, therefore, that once married, a woman would
                    never forsake those "sweet ties" for outside work "unless compelled to do
                    so by reasons for which the husband is responsible."47
            
            An industrious woman might attempt whatever work she thought best, but only until she married and
                    only because "the industrious girl will make the most satisfactory wife, the neatest
                    housekeeper, the best cook, the most expert needlewoman, the most devoted mother." Besides,
                    a working woman married to a financially solvent man deprived an indigent woman of a job. The
                    working wife was thus also morally obligated to resign.48 Harper further
                    asserted that any single woman who professed a dislike for housework or who claimed she would not
                    keep house after marriage was ruining her chances for matrimony: she should bury such sentiments
                    "deep in her heart and put a seal upon her lips."49
            
            Why then, if Ida Harper believed that the working wife defrauded either her job or her home of her
                    complete energy, if she believed only financially insolvent wives or divorcees should work, if she
                    believed only a single woman should take advantage of their special talents, why then, did she
                    herself 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., March 3, 1883.
                  
                     46 Ida Harper, "Woman's Work," Firemen's Magazine, VIII (June, 1884), 350.
                  
                     47 Ida Harper, "Work for Women," ibid., VII (June, 1883), 261; Ida Harper, "Women Who Work," ibid., X (March, 1886), 162.
                  
                     48 Harper, "Woman's Work," 351; Harper,
                            "Women Who Work," 161.
                  
                     49 Harper, "Women Who Work," 161.
               
                     work? Harper fit none of these categories. She was a mother,
                    married to a prominent and successful lawyer, and by all of her exclamations, perfectly suited to a
                    life of homemaking.
            A tentative answer may lie in the progression of the ideas themselves. In 1884 she wrote that
                    household chores were women's "most important" duties. Five years later
                    she added candidly that housekeeping was monotonous but should still be the wife's only
                    occupation. Her compensation would be her home, her family, and her husband's protection of
                    them all. Later still, and after her divorce, she concluded that "the very hardest thing
                    the housewife has to contend with, [is] that her work is not appreciated at its financial or its
                    industrial value."50 The fact that she expressed this opinion in 1891
                    does not, however, explain her having worked for nearly twenty years prior to reaching it.
            Another more plausible answer may lie in a statement Harper made early in her career. In her third
                    column for the Evening Mail, November 9, 1878, she wrote that it was
                    "strange" for a married woman, with the "burdens" of a family,
                    to undertake a professional writing career. Yet, she argued, every married woman, while
                    understanding her duties at home, should also assume the responsibility of cultivating her
                    mind—primarily for her husband's sake, secondarily for her own. Cooking,
                    scrubbing, washing, and ironing were not mind expanding enterprises, but reading and writing were.
                    They raised a woman from a "household drudge" to- the equal or even superior of
                    her husband. Perhaps, then, Harper continued writing to keep her mind active. Still, it is
                    interesting to note that although early in her career she condemned "the advice generally
                    given to women" to concentrate on homemaking, she later persisted in giving precisely that
                    advice, while ignoring it herself.51
            
            Harper increasingly viewed education for women as beneficial: "there seems to be the dawning
                    of a day," Harper wrote late in 1878, "when it will be considered essential to
                    educate our girls equally as well as our boys …,"52 Her
                    support of that possibility did not derive so much from a 
                  
                     50 Ida Harper, "Greeting," Firemen's Magazine, VII (May, 1884), 289; Ida Harper, "One View
                            of Woman's Work," ibid., XIII (November, 1889), 986; Ida
                            Harper, "The Financial Value of Housework," ibid., XV
                            (June, 1891), 522.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, November 9, 1878.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., November 16, 1878.
               
                     desire to enlighten women's minds as from a wish to
                    increase their chances of matrimony and to impress their husbands' friends. An intelligent
                    wife would, after all, "reflect great credit on [the husband's] choice of a
                        companion."53
            
            Harper's continuing tendency to define women's sphere as subordinate to
                    men's did not prevent her from recognizing the inequities of that belief. Practiced in
                    life, such a creed meant that "it is home or nothing to a woman; it is home and everything
                    he wants besides to a man."54 In some areas Harper wrote vigorously
                    against this creed. For example, one of the most obvious inequities was wage discrimination against
                    working women. Because women had no organization, Harper believed, they had no power to demand
                    higher wages. (She did not acknowledge that her own advice for women to quit work after marriage
                    would, when carried out, only add leverage to employers' arguments against raising
                    women's pay.) Strikes, boycotts, protests gained nothing for women, for thousands more
                    stood ready to fill vacancies for lower wages still. Besides, violence was not womanly. Further,
                    Harper believed that equality was hindered by a slave mentality in working women: "women
                    are accustomed to being oppressed. It is their normal condition." They simply had no
                    concept of a better condition. Men were not caught in the same vicious cycle, according to Harper,
                    because they had unions and they had the vote.55
            
            If women were to escape the slavery of their own "ruinous underbidding" for wages,
                    they had to be admitted to labor and trade unions. But more important, they had to be granted
                    suffrage. The major problem, of course, was that both of these crucial areas were dominated and
                    controlled by men. Whatever progress was to be made would have to be solely by their sufferance.56
            
            About suffrage Harper became singularly rational and noncontradictory. Several barriers needed to be
                    overcome if women were ever to vote. First, women must rid themselves of the idea that acquisition
                    of suffrage would be easy. "Women 
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., November 23, 1878; Ida Harper, "The College Bred
                            Wife," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, XVII (August,
                            1893), 716.
                  
                     54 Ida Harper, "How to Keep a Husband," ibid., XII (June, 1888), 429.
                  
                     55 Ida Harper, "Woman's Side of the Labor
                            Question," ibid., X (June, 1886), 348; Ida Harper,
                            "Women Wage Earners," ibid., XVII (May, 1893), 413.
                  
                     56 Harper, "Women Wage Earners," 413.
               
                     can scarcely hope to be emancipated," Harper wrote,
                    "as were the slaves, by a stroke of the pen …." It would take
                    perseverance and patience and much hard work reminding legislators that women would not let the
                    question die."57
            
            Secondly, women would have to quell the opposition of those females "who would deny all
                    other women the suffrage because ‘she has all the rights she wants.’"
                    If such women, "engrossed with the fashionable life," could not support suffrage,
                    it was because they lacked the sensibility to see beyond the narrow boundaries of their own lives,
                    to see that working women's Jives were different from their own. And, Harper emphasized, it
                    was the working women who most needed the ballot. If they could not see the need, or were
                    "too ignorant to understand the power of suffrage," women like Harper
                    "who have the leisure and the means" must get it for them. Suffrage was not a
                    matter of expedience, but of necessity.58
            
            It should be noted, however, that Harper did not welcome suffrage for all Americans. When Indians
                    were enfranchised, her attack on them was bigoted and vituperous.
            
                    Here are these immoral, dirty, idle, half-civilized Indians, superstitious, viscious, with no
                        conception of the principles of government, ignorant of law, and yet, if they will graciously
                        accept a farm from Uncle Sam, they are invested with all the dignity and authority of
                        citizenship. And, on the other hand, here are the women of the country, moral, religious,
                        intelligent, interested in whatever acts for the good of mankind, the mothers of the human race,
                        denied this same privilege of citizenship.59
               
                
            A third barrier to be overcome in the fight for suffrage was the temperance crusade, since both
                    temperance and suffrage competed for the attention of reform minded Americans. Because she believed
                    men "liked to be tempted," Harper coneluded 
                  
                     57 Ida Harper, "Progress of Woman in 1885," ibid., X (April, 1886), 225.
                  
                     58 Ida Harper, "Woman Before the Law," ibid., XV (September, 1891), 801; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, December 23, 1882.
                  
                     59 Ida Harper, "Our New Voters," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, XVI (September, 1892), 795.
                            Harper's attitudes on ethnicity and race were not unique among suffragists. With
                            the rising number of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe in the 1880s and later, the
                            suffrage movement, which had once called for the vote to be given to all citizens as equals,
                            began claiming the vote for women— white women—as superiors to the
                            foreign born, blacks, and Indians in the 
                                United States
                            . A new union formed between northern and southern suffragists to the exclusion
                            of these minorities, and not until the turn of the century did some suffragists adopt a more
                            sympathetic approach. Harper, Anthony, Stanton, Catt, and Anna Howard Shaw all remained
                            prejudiced. See Aileen Kraditor, The Ideas of the Woman Suffrage Movement,
                                1890–1920 (
                                Garden City
                            , N. Y., 1971), 105–37.
               
                     that they were readily driven to drunkenness. Women could not
                    protect themselves against drunkard husbands because men, no matter their character, controlled all
                    property and wages within the home. The "fatal habit," she wrote, was so
                    widespread that the family which had not suffered from it in some way was rare. "It is the
                    all-powerful danger that threatens the 
                        United States
                     and, though we keep a standing army and build a navy of iron clads, yet will this foe
                    from within rise up by night, open the gates and accomplish our overthrow."60
            
            In January, 1883, Harper went so far as to say that temperance was "undoubtedly the most
                    important issue before the country…. for women are not suffering half so badly from being
                    deprived of the franchise as they are from the evils caused by intemperance." "And
                    yet," she added, "if they do not vote til the temperance question is disposed of,
                    I am afraid Gabriel will have blown his horn and ordered the polls closed."61 Ten months later Harper had reversed her priorities, claiming that women simply could
                    not fight intemperance without political clout. The problem was not whether women should campaign or
                    hold office, but "whether or not we will have a nation of drunkards." Harper urged
                    women to quit praying for sobriety and begin storming their legislators for the vote instead:
                    "a ballot box stuffed full of prayers would not have the influence of one good, honest
                        vote."62
            
            Still another hurdle which blocked women's suffrage was the attitude that women did not
                    belong in the muck filled political arena. When a man complained that women could say nothing
                    intelligent about politics, Harper replied that if he had been disfranchised all his life, he
                    wouldn't know anything about politics either.63 Harper believed women
                    did belong in politics and, furthermore, that their presence would cause a complete transformation:
                    "There is not a department in life that has not been improved by admitting women,"
                    she said.64
            
            
               
                  60
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Saturday Evening Mail, June 16, 1883; Ida Harper, "From a Business
                        View," Firemen's Magazine, VIII (January, 1884), 27.
               
                  61
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Saturday Evening Mail, January 27, 1883.
               
                  62
                        Ibid., October 13, 1883.
               
                  63
                        Ibid., November 18, 1882.
               
                  64
                        Ibid., April 12, 1884.
            
            
            Harper's own experience in politics was indirect but successful. Two weeks after her divorce
                    and from February 26 through May 10, 1890, she worked as managing editor of the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Daily News. Editorially, she and the paper supported a list of Republican reform
                    candidates in the city election. Fearlessly she attacked an influential councilman as a political
                    boss and the entire encumbent council as a "gang who have had the city by the throat for a
                    number of years, depleting the treasury, plunging us into debt, defying the statutes and city laws,
                    trampling underfoot morality and decency, making us a byword and a reproach throughout the
                        state."65 It was certainly no more encouraging to Harper that half
                    the Democratic candidates were saloon keepers or that the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Brewing Company sent fifteen eight gallon kegs of beer to each Democratic candidate for
                    use in the short campaign. Whether the Republican reform victory resulted from Harper's
                    editorials is unknown, but the Daily News claimed their victory as its victory and
                    gave Harper the credit when she left the job shortly after the election.66
            
            As large as these barriers seemed, the suffrage movement faced an even more formidable
                    opposition—the prejudice of men. Obviously, Harper reasoned, if men had no vote they
                    would have no power to control their futures, protect their interests, or direct the nation. Only
                    the ballot stood between working men and oppression. To disfranchise men would destroy them.67 Why then, she wondered, could men not realize how powerless women felt? The
                    chivalry so many men used as a substitute for equal rights, even as a reason for withholding them,
                    certainly offered no compensation: 
                        It is foolish … to talk of the chivalry of American men, of their devotion and
                            kindness to women … women cannot eat or drink politeness, or be clothed with
                            chivalry. A man would not, for worlds, let her stand a few minutes in a street car, but the
                            fact that she stands all day behind a counter does not worry him in the least. If a sewing
                            woman should drop her bundle on the sidewalk, he would fly to pick it up, but he would not
                            lose any sleep because that bundle represented a whole day's work and only fifty
                            cents in money.68
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  65
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Daily News, March 27, 1890.
               
                  66
                        Ibid., March 25, 1890. The last edition under Harper's direction
                        stated: "Other literary duties demand so much of her time that she found it
                        impracticable to remain with us longer." Ibid., May 10, 1890.
               
                  67
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Saturday Evening Mail, September 16, 1882, December 23, 1882.
               
                  68
                        Ibid., December 23, 1882.
            
            
            Although many such obstacles blocked progress toward suffrage, Harper believed firmly that one day
                    women would vote. In 1878 she met Susan B. Anthony when Debs sponsored Anthony's appearance
                    in 
                        Terre Haute
                     after a local literary club refused. "It would not have required any great
                    amount of egging on," Debs wrote afterwards, "to have excited the people to drive
                    her from the community. Even my friends were disgusted with me for piloting such an
                    ‘undesirable citizen’ into the community." The act reportedly earned
                    Debs Harper's friendship, as well as giving her the opportunity to meet the famous suffrage
                        activist.69
            
            From this first meeting grew a friendship between Harper and the suffragist which culminated in
                    Harper's writing of a three volume biography of Anthony. Harper frequently praised Anthony
                    in her columns. "For sound logic and sterling common sense, Susan B. Anthony has no
                    superiors," Harper declared in the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Evening Mail. "There is only one woman who has been as much abused by
                    men, and that one is the mother-in-law. The same reason will apply to both; they see right through
                    the pretense and deceptions of men and cannot be fooled by them: Miss Anthony goes straight forward
                    on the line she believes to be correct and she would not swerve one inch to gain favor with
                        anybody."70 And later Harper wrote: "Miss
                    Anthony's face has something in it which reminds one of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's, the same strong, rugged features, softened by lines of weariness and care
                    and spiritualized by an expression of infinite sadness. What Lincoln was to the Republican party in
                    the hour of its great struggle, Susan B. Anthony has been to women in the long contest for rights
                    and justice."71
            
            As her friendship and admiration for Anthony grew, Harper expanded her activities beyond writing and
                    assumed an active, constant role in the long struggle for the right to vote. She attended suffrage
                    conventions annually in 
                  Indiana, Washington
               , D.C., and elsewhere, and in 1887 acted as state
                    secretary of the Indiana chapter of Anthony's National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA).
                    As such she coordinated 
                  
                     69 Ray Ginger, Eugene Debs: A Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 46.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, March 22, 1884.
                  
                     71 Ida Harper, "Three Women," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, XI (July, 1887), 404.
               
                     thirteen district conventions in an attempt to secure the
                    passage of a bill granting women municipal suffrage.72
            
            Harper traveled not only for suffrage but for her own benefit as well. Each summer she participated
                    in a chatauqua conference in various sections of the country. In 1884 she attended the Democratic
                    National Convention; in 1886 she helped organize a literary club in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and in 1889 she was present at the inauguration and the inaugural ball of President
                    Benjamin Harrison. In 1893 she joined her only child, Winnifred, as a student at 
                        Stanford
                     University, and while in 
                        California
                     she was chosen by Anthony to direct press coverage of the state's campaign for
                    a suffrage amendment.73
            
            After leaving 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Harper continued to write, concentrating her efforts more than ever on
                    women's rights. Beginning in 1897, she lived with Anthony at Anthony's
                            
                  Rochester, New York
               , home, sorting through the suffragist's papers in
                    order to write her biography.74 She also collaborated with Anthony on the fourth
                    volume of the History of Woman Suffrage and later, after suffrage was won, wrote
                    the fifth and sixth volumes of the series, a chronicle of state and national suffrage activities.
                    Harper traveled frequently with Anthony on lecture tours and to suffrage conventions in the 
                        United States
                     and in Europe. She served as chairwoman of the International Council of
                    Women's Press Committee from 1899 to 1902 and during the same period edited a
                    woman's column in the Sunday 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun. From 1909 to 1913 she edited a woman's page in Harper's Bazaar. She also wrote weekly syndicated columns during this time for
                    newspapers in 
                  Boston, New York, Washington
               , B.C., 
                        Chicago
                    , 
                  
                     72
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, March 22, 1884; Ida Harper, "The
                            Outlook," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, X (December,
                            1886), 737–39; Harper, "Three Women," 402–404; Ida
                            Harper, "For the New Year," ibid., XII (January, 1888),
                            34–35; Ida Harper, "The National Woman's Council," ibid., XV (April, 1891), 334–35; Harper and Anthony, History of Woman Suffrage, IV, 615.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, July 19, 1884; George S. Cottman, "The
                            Western Association of Writers," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XXIX (September, 1933), 187–90; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, February 7, 1885; Locomotive
                                Firemen's Magazine, XIII (February-April, 1889); Ida Harper,
                            "Moving the Household Gods and Goods," ibid., XIV
                            (November, 1890), 984–85; Ida Harper, "In Memoriam," ibid., XVI (December, 1892), 1076; ibid., XVII (October,
                            1893), 867; Phillips, "Ida A. Husted Harper," 139.
                  
                     74 Ida Harper, The Life and Work of Susan B. Anthony
                            (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898–1908).
               
                    
                    
                        Philadelphia
                    , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the final years of the suffrage campaign, Harper also worked with Carrie Chapman
                    Catt, president of the combined National American Woman's Suffrage Association (NAWSA), to
                    publicize suffrage education. In this job she wrote hundreds of letters to and articles for
                    newspapers in an attempt to influence national opinion.75
            
            By the time the suffrage amendment was passed in 1919, Harper was one of the few early fighters alive
                    to celebrate the victory: Lucy Stone had died in 1893, Elizabeth Cady Stanton in 1902, and Anthony
                    in 1906. Harper herself lived long enough to see that her predictions for great moral changes from
                    women's suffrage did not materialize. Women voted, certainly, but they voted largely as men
                    did, along party lines and not in large blocs or for sweeping social reform. Women voted, but they
                    did not win political power: they were not elected to state or national legislatures or as mayors
                    and governors in numbers nearly representative of their percentage of the population. Rather, with
                    the winning of the vote, women returned to their traditional, nineteenth century roles as
                    supporters, followers, and fund raisers for male candidates. Socially too they seemed unwilling to
                    forsake the image of the feminine ideal. In general, discriminatory legislation remained, treating
                    women differently from men in such areas as labor, marriage, divorce, juror qualification, property,
                    and inheritance. Nor were women allowed self governance in child bearing and child rearing. Indeed,
                    with few exceptions, the women's rights movement fell asleep after 1919 and did not
                    reawaken until the late 1960s when there began a renewed attempt to pass the Equal Rights Amendment
                    first introduced to Congress in 1923.76
            
            Where, or whether, Harper would have fit into the new women's movement can only be
                    speculated. In late 1894 she wrote that the "evolution of women from the position of
                    chattle [sic] to that of an independent individual has been in progress for
                    centuries and is not yet accomplished."77
                    
                  
                     75 Phillips, "Ida A. Husted Harper," 140.
                  
                     76 See Estelle B. Freedman, "The New Woman: Changing Views of
                            Women in the 1920s," Journal of American History, LXI (September,
                            1974), 372–93.
                  
                     77 Ida Harper, "Life Insurance for Women," Locomotive Firemen's Magazine, XVIII (November, 1894),
                        1054.
               
                     Many modern feminists would agree with this observation.
                    Clearly, though, many would disagree strongly with Harper's persistent recommendations that
                    women's primary duties were to home and husband. Just as Booker T. Washington is regarded
                    by some as an accommodationist, Harper would also be viewed as far too conservative by many present
                    day feminists. But she, like 
                        Washington
                    , was a product of her times. The feminine ideal was as pervasive a stereotype as that
                    of the shuffling darkie, but with roots extending much deeper into time.
            If Harper's writings were at times contradictory, perhaps it was because she was struggling
                    with that image of the feminine ideal. Perhaps she lacked the courage to forsake it completely in
                    public; perhaps she did not want to. Or perhaps she realized, shrewdly, that her 
                        Terre Haute
                     audience— rural, politically and religiously conservative—would
                    dismiss her if she wrote more radically.
            In truth, her actions spoke louder than her words: she continued her career despite her
                    husband's objections, initiated and won a divorce from him at age thirty-nine, moved away
                    from the town she had known for twenty years to live alone, went back to college at age forty-two,
                    then devoted most of the remainder of her life to one cause, the whole time writing prolifically.
                    Indeed, Harper's later writings, notably those appearing in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun, show a stronger emphasis on women's rights to choose their life
                    styles: 
                        Men can't help it because they are so emotional; nature made them that way, and,
                            just as the sight of water sends a hydrophobic patient into convulsions, so the
                            contemplation of wifehood and motherhood throws these emotional creatures into a fit of
                            hysteria. Imagine every woman in the country who has access to a newspaper using it to
                            glorify husband hood and fatherhood! … There never has been a time since the
                            alphabet was invented when we have not been solemnly assured that mother love is the
                            strongest passion humanity is capable of. From the period of Moses down to June, 1900, we
                            have been told that God and nature, the prophecies, the Ten Commandments, the beatitudes,
                            the revelations, the Church, the Pope, the Bishops, the elders, the editors, and the
                            politicians, intended woman to be the mother of the race. She would have found it out
                            herself if nobody had ever told her …. Why in the name of common sense are all
                            the small fry in creation popping up at this late day and informing her that she has got to
                            be what she always has been? Can it be possible that at this dawn of a new  century a free womanhood is about to assert itself and declare
                            that, as man in all the past ages has exercised his individual wish as to whether he will be
                            a husband and father, so woman henceforth will decide for herself whether she shall assume
                            the relations of wife and mother?78
                  
                    
            
            Harper's writings during the 
                        Terre Haute
                     years reveal a feminist in the making, a strong willed woman who saw the injustices but
                    who was not quite ready to give up the privileges of the feminine ideal. In her later years she
                    built upon her early views, becoming a national figure in the fight for the franchise but remaining
                    forgotten in history.
            
               
                  78
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Sun, June 10, 1900.
            
         
         
         
            The Militia System and the State Militias in the War of 1812
            
                    Robert L. Kerby
                    ∗
                
            General Emory Upton's classic review, The Military Policy of the 
                            United States
                        
               , blamed the "failures and disasters" suffered by American
                    arms during the War of 1812 upon "the pernicious military organization established by the
                    [Militia] act of 1792."1 Influenced by Upton's preference for
                    a professional military establishment,2 subsequent generations of military
                    analysts and historians have consistently echoed his conclusion.3 In one of the
                    more recent scholarly histories of the War of 1812, Harry L. Coles argued that the 
                  
                     ∗ Robert L. Kerby is associate professor of history at the
                            University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
                  
                     1 Emory Upton, The Military Policy of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2nd ed., 
                                Washington
                            , 1907), 105. For the Militia Act, see 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, I, 271–74.
                  
                     2 Samuel P. Huntington, The Soldier and the State (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1957), 232. See also Stephen E. Ambrose, Upton and the
                                Army (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1964).
                  
                     3 The indispensable histories of military operations during the War of
                            1812 are Henry Adams, History of the 
                                    United States
                                 during the Administrations of Jefferson and Madison (9 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1891–1896), vols. VII, VIII, and IX; and Benson J. Lossing, The Pictorial Field Book of the War of 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1869). Recent general histories of the war include Harry Coles, The War of 1812 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1965); J. Mackay Hitsman, The Incredible War of 1812 (
                                Toronto
                            , 1965); Francis F. Bierne, The War of 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1949); and Glenn Tucker, Poltroons and Patriots (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), all of which reflect Upton's perspective. Among military
                            analysts, Upton's disciples include Frederic L. Huidekoper, The
                                Military Unpreparedness of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1915); R. Ernest and Trevor N. Dupuy, Military Heritage of
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1956); T. Harry Williams, Americans at War (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1960); Walter Millis, Arms and Men (
                                New York
                            , 1956); William A. Ganoe, The History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army (
                                New York
                            , 1931); John M. Palmer, America in Arms (
                                New Haven
                            , 1941), and The Military Policy of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1775–1944 (
                                Washington
                            , 1944); William H. Riker, Soldiers of the States (
                                Washington
                            , 1957); Marcus Cunliffe, Soldiers and Civilians (
                                Boston
                            , 1968); Robert Leckie, The Wars of America (
                                New York
                            , 1968); Russell F. Weigley, The American Way of War (
                                New York
                            , 1973); 
                                Huntington
                            , The Soldier and the State; Ambrose, Upton and
                                the Army.
               
                     "militia system" established by the act of
                    1792 "created a huge army on paper but provided nearly nothing in the way of effectual
                    training and preparation," and he intimated that the system itself was therefore
                    instrumental in causing America's "disgraceful defeats" during the
                        war.4 Even such advocates of a voluntary nonprofessional military force as
                    General John A. Logan, the founder of the Grand Army of the Republic, criticized "the
                    absurd militia law approved May 8, 1792."5
            
            Between 1812 and 1815 numerous contemporaries testified that militia soldiers were often
                    "very little better than an infuriated mob"6 and agreed with
                    General Edwin Tupper's observation that the American militia reaped "a plentiful
                    harvest of mortification and disgrace."7 Royal officers contemplated
                    the American militia with such disdain that the terms of capitulation offered to American commanders
                    usually provided only for the detention of prisoners enlisted in the regular or provisional armies
                    of the 
                        United States
                    , while permitting militiamen "to return to the 
                        United States
                     on parole."8 Having witnessed the mass flight of the
                    entire American army from the battlefield at Bladensburg, a British subaltern later reflected that
                    the American militiamen "would have been much more appropriately employed in attending to
                    their agricultural occupations, than in standing, with muskets in their hands, on the brow of a bare
                    green hill…."9
                    
                  
                     4 Coles, War of 1812, 265.
                  
                     5 John A. Logan, "The Dangerous West Point
                            Monopoly," in Russell P. Weigley, ed., The American Military
                            (Reading, Mass., 1969), 81.
                  
                     6 Brig. Gen. George McClure to Secretary of War John Armstrong,
                            December 25, 1813, American State Papers (38 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832–1861), Class V: Military Affairs (7 included
                            vols.), I, 487.
                  
                     7 Brig. Gen. Edwin Tupper to Maj. Gen. William H. Harrison, October
                            12, 1812, in T. H. Palmer, ed., The Historical Register of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (4 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1814–1816), IV, "Official Documents," 129. All
                            citations to this work refer to the pages marked "Official Documents."
                  
                     8 Capitulation of Lt. Col. P. G. Boerstler, June 24, 1813, ibid., I, 437–38. See also the capitulation of Brig. Gen.
                            William Hull, August 16, 1812, ibid., 366, and other examples. Unlike the
                            states' militia, both the regular and provisional armies were federal
                            organizations, under federal command and discipline. The regulars composed the
                            country's small permanent standing army, while the provisionals were federal
                            volunteers enlisted for service in wartime or other emergencies. See C. J. Bernardo and
                            Eugene H. Bacon, American Military Policy: Its Development Since 1775 (
                                Harrisburg
                            , Pa., 1961), 114–16.
                  
                     9 [Robert Gleig], A Subaltern in America: Comprising His
                                Narrative of the Campaigns of the British Army (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1833), 67. Numerous imprints of Robert Gleig's memoir, published
                            anonymously, appeared under different titles. For the battle of Bladensburg, see Neil H.
                            Swanson, The Perilous Flight (
                                New York
                            , 1945); Charles Muller, The Darkest Day, 1814: The 
                                    Washington
                                -
                                    Baltimore
                                 Campaign (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1963); Walter Lord, The Dawn's Early Light (
                                New York
                            , 1973).
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloominirton.
               
                     Summing up his evaluation of American militia performance
                    during the War of 1812, the distinguished British military historian, Brigadier J. W. Fortescue,
                    expressed the general consensus: the Americans, he wrote, "were not without their
                    victories," but as a rule "the quality of their troops" was
                    "beneath contempt."10
            
            Yet there were laurels won by the militia. Peter Porter's militia brigade distinguished
                    itself at Lundy's Lane. Militia stormed and took Fort 
                        Erie
                    , and other militiamen held off columns of British regulars advancing against both 
                        Baltimore
                     and Plattsburg. William Henry Harrison used militia levies to clear the enemy from much
                    of the Northwest and employed militia forces to chase Brigadier Henry Proctor's redcoats
                    and Tecumseh's warriors into 
                        Ontario
                    . And the great majority of Andrew Jackson's troops, at both Horseshoe Bend and
                    New Orleans, were western militiamen.11
            
            Generally speaking, the militia's performance during the war was poor. But the exceptions to
                    the rule suggest that the fault for the militia's failures might not have lain with the act
                    of 1792 and the system based upon it but rather with deficiencies in the implementation of the act
                    and factors extraneous to the system itself. General Logan implied as much when he balanced his
                    remark about the absurdity of the act with the comment that "had there been earnest action
                    in the direction of following the spirit" of the measure, "important results would
                    undoubtedly have followed…,"12 A distinction should be made
                    between the militia system as it was theoretically envisioned in 1812 and the actual condition of
                    the 
                  
                     10 J. W. Fortescue, A History of the British Army
                            (13 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1920), X, 137; Upton, Military Policy, 137.
                  
                     11 See William Henry Harrison to John Armstrong, October 9, 1813, in
                            John Brannan, ed., Official Letters of the Military and Naval Officers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1823), 236–37; Harrison to Armstrong, May 5, 1813, ibid., 149–51; Brig. Gen. Jacob 
                                Brown
                             to Armstrong, August [?], 1814, ibid., 381–82; 
                                Brown
                             to Secretary of War James 
                                Monroe
                            , September 29, 1814, ibid., 442; Brig. Henry Proctor to Maj.
                            Gen. Sir George Prevost, May 14, 1813, in William James, Military Occurrences
                                of the Late War (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1818), I, 425–29; Lieut. Gen. Gordon Drummond to Prevost, July 27,
                            1814, ibid., II, 437; Col. Arthur Brooke to Earl Bathurst, September 17,
                            1814, ibid., 510; Maj. Gen. Samuel Smith to 
                                Monroe
                            , September 29, 1814, Palmer, Historical Register, IV, 188;
                            Brig. Gen. William Winder to Armstrong, August 27, 1814, ibid., 129; Brig.
                            Gen. John Strieker to Smith, September 15, 1814, ibid., 191–95;
                            Brig. Gen. Alexander Macomb to 
                                Monroe
                            , September 15, 1814, ibid., 220–24; Lieut. Col.
                            Joseph Sterett to Congress, November 22, 1814, American State Papers, Military
                                Affairs, I, 568.
                  
                     12 Logan, "The Dangerous West Point Monopoly," in
                            Weigley, The American Military, 81–82.
               
                     militia troops thrown into combat. Their sorry showing may be
                    attributable not to the system, but to the failure of the national government, the states, and the
                    people at large to enforce and employ the system with wisdom. Considering that the subsequent
                    professionalization of the American military was largely justified by criticism of the militia
                        system,13 this distinction holds more than semantic significance for a
                    generation troubled by the concentration of power represented by America's modern military
                    establishment.
            The militia system of the 
                        United States
                     was the product of colonial tradition and experience, modified by a measure of
                    constitutional compromise between the interests of the states and those of the national government.
                    Despite George 
                        Washington
                    's emphatic admonition that "No Militia will ever
                    acquire the habits necessary to resist a regular force,"14 the
                    performance of militia at Concord, against "Gentleman Johnny" Burgoyne and Barry
                    St. Leger, and during the Revolutionary War campaigns in the South and in the interior was
                    sufficiently respectable to cast some doubt upon 
                        Washington
                    's dictum. In any case the revolutionary state governments were disinclined to
                    surrender to the Confederation prerogatives wrested from the British Empire, and during the decade
                    following America's Declaration of Independence the states preserved their authority in
                    matters of military policy. Having repudiated George III for keeping "among us, in times of
                    peace, Standing Armies without the Consent of our legislature,"15 the
                    states respectively retained the power, under the Articles of Confederation, to "keep up a
                    well regulated and disciplined militia, sufficiently armed and accoutred" to provide for
                    the common defense.16 By 1786, the year in which Shays' Rebellion broke
                    out in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , America's revolutionary navy and marine corps had been disbanded, almost all
                    of the Continental troops had been dis-discharged, and the Confederation's regular army had
                    been reduced in strength to a single company of artillery (one 
                  
                     13 Upton, The Military Policy of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 271 and passim;
                            
                                Huntington
                            , The Soldier and the State, 143–373; Millis, Arms and Men; Ambrose, Upton and the Army.
                  
                     14 Gen. George 
                                Washington
                             to the President of Congress, September 15, 1780, in John C. Fitzpatrick, ed.,
                                The Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (39 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1931–1944), XX, 49–50.
                  
                     15 The Declaration of Independence.
                  
                     16 The Articles of Confederation, Article VI.
               
                     captain and eighty enlisted men). The several state militias
                    were virtually the only armed forces left in the country.17
            
            One reason for calling the Constitutional Convention of 1787 was the inability of the Confederation
                    to bring appropriate military force to bear against the Shaysites. The status of the militia was
                    therefore among the questions debated by the convention. The delegates finally decided to bring the
                    militias of the several states "under one plan of discipline"18 by giving the new federal Congress authority to "provide for organizing, arming,
                    and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service
                    of the 
                        United States
                    , reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the
                    Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress."
                    Congress was also empowered to "provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws
                    of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions," while the president was
                    designated "Commander in Chief… of the Militia of the several States, when
                    called into the actual Service of the 
                        United States
                    ."19
            
            These provisions incited the opposition of antifederalist delegates and spokesmen, who protested that
                    "the advocates of this system design the destruction of the State
                        governments…."20 Fearing that a national government with
                    excessive power over the militia might subvert the states' sovereign liberties, numerous
                    states demanded prompt enactment of specific constitutional assurances guaranteeing the autonomy of
                    the states' authority over their militia forces.21 "A well
                    regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State," the Constitution was
                    amended in 1791 to insure 
                  
                     17 Bernardo and Bacon, American Military Policy,
                            61–62; American Military History (
                                Washington
                            , 1969), 104.
                  
                     18 John Jay, "The Federalist No. 4," in Edward Meade
                            Earle, ed., The Federalist (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 20. For pertinent debates at the convention, see Max Farrand, The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787 (4 vols., 
                                New Haven
                            , 1911–1937), especially II, 330–32, 385–86,
                            and III, 208–209.
                  
                     19 The Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            , Article I, Section 8, and Article II, Section 2.
                  
                     20 Luther Martin, "The Genuine Information"
                            (addressed to the 
                                Maryland
                             legislature), November 29, 1787, in Farrand, Records, III,
                            209.
                  
                     21 See Jonathan Elliot, The Debates in the Several State
                                Conventions on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution… (5 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1861–1881), especially II, 406, 545, 552, and III, 206, 382, 385,
                            395, 416–17, 419, 424, 660. The state demands were considerably more explicit
                            than the cautious language of the Constitution's Second Amendment indicates.
               
                     that "the right of the people to keep and bear Arms
                    shall not be infringed."22
            
            The compromise arranged between 1787 and 1791 placed the militia in an ambiguous situation. The
                    Second Amendment secured the states' concurrent authority to govern their militias, but
                    neglected to make the exercise of that authority mandatory. The power of the federal government to
                    regulate the militia remained, but the degree to which such regulation could be enforced was
                    circumscribed by the guarantee of the states' autonomy. The precise relationship between
                    national and state authority was not defined. The success of the militia system would therefore
                    depend upon willing cooperation between the states and the federal government and upon the
                    determination of both sovereignties to exercise their responsibilities.
            Sensitive to the states' concern for the preservation of autonomy in military affairs,
                    Congress provided a regulatory plan to standardize the arming, organization, and discipline of the
                    militia which conformed to existing practice and which encouraged the states to continue building
                    upon past tradition. The scheme of militia organization inherited from the British was basically
                    territorial. The states were divided into regiments, battalions, and companies, each of which was
                    ordinarily coterminous with some existing political subdivision such as a county or a township.
                    Eligible residents of each district composed that district's "standing
                    militia" force. The Militia Act of 1792 provided that "each and every free
                    able-bodied white male citizen of the respective states" between the ages of eighteen and
                    forty-five, with certain exceptions, "shall severally and respectively be enrolled in the
                    militia by the captain or commanding officer of the company, within whose bounds such citizen shall
                    reside…." In accordance with custom the states, "if the same be
                    convenient," were requested to arrange local companies into regiments and brigades.
                    Individual militiamen were directed to procure and provide their own arms and equipment. A
                    concession was made to "sundry corps" of socially prominent and privately raised
                    "uniformed" militia, which "have not been incorporated with, or subject
                    to the general regulations of the [standing] militia," by permitting such units to
                    "retain their accustomed privileges, subject, nevertheless, to all other duties 
                  
                     22 The Second Amendment to the Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            .
               
                     required by this act…,"23 The bond uniting enlistees in uniformed companies, such as the Ancient and Honourable
                    Artillery Company of 
                        Boston
                     or the First Troop of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Cavalry in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , was not the accident of residence but free choice inspired by martial espirit. In all cases, in accordance with the Constitution, the states were to commission
                    officers and provide for the training of the militia.
            Reflecting the bulk of scholarly opinion, Samuel P. Huntington attributed the inadequacies of the
                    militia to the "constant confusion and bickering" caused by the scheme of dual
                    control erected by the Constitution and the act of 1792. He criticized Congress, in particular, for
                    "refusing to exercise its powers under the militia clauses," and for providing
                    "neither effective federal supervision nor effective federal support."24 Yet the 
                        United States
                     was a federation, and the militias were state troops. Had not Congress displayed an
                    appreciation for state autonomy and had it not been circumspect about introducing innovations it
                    seems unlikely that any militia system which incorporated a measure of national regulation could
                    have been enacted. Further, the confusion, bickering, and ineffective supervision and support which
                    later occurred need not be attributed either to the federal character of the militia system or to
                    the organic law which established that system, but may rather be assigned to the failure of men to
                    implement the system with consistency.
            In 1790 and 1791, Secretary of War Henry Knox, borrowing an idea first proposed by 
                        Washington
                     in 1783,25 advocated a radical reorganization of the militia.26
                    
                        Knox
                     suggested that different corps be composed of men from different age groups, with the
                    youngest receiving thirty days of "basic training" and the others periodic brief
                    courses of drill. This training was to be subsidized and supervised by the federal government. Not
                    only did 
                        Knox
                    's plan envision a sharp departure from custom, but it appeared to contradict
                    the Constitution's explicit reservation "to the States respectively" of
                    "the Authority of training the Militia…,"27
                    Moreover, 
                        Knox
                    's scheme of organization by age rather than by territory 
                  
                     23U.S. Statutes, I, 271, 272, 274 (May 8, 1792).
                  
                     24
                            
                                Huntington
                            , The Soldier and the State, 169.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Washington
                            , "Sentiments on a Peace Establishment," May 2, 1783,
                            Fitzpatrick, Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , XXVI, 374–99.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Huntington
                            , The Soldier and the State, 169.
                  
                     27 The Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            , Article I, Section 8.
               
                     and the virtual nationalization of militiamen for training
                    purposes threatened to make state autonomy meaningless. Congress therefore chose to interpret the
                    Constitution strictly, and in the Militia Act of 1792 provided norms for the regulation of militia
                    forces which respected state sensibilities.
            It was not the fact of dual sovereignty which enervated the militia, any more than it was dual
                    sovereignty which inhibited other aspects of American political and socioeconomic development during
                    the next seventy years. In certain fields of endeavor, from canal building to political philosophy,
                    federalism established conditions which inspired competition and spurred innovative progress.28 There is no inherent reason why federalism should have aborted the continued
                    successful evolution of the militia system. On the contrary, the militia system was undermined by
                    the failure of dual sovereignty to function. Instead of sharing responsibility, both the states and
                    the national government avoided responsibility for the militia. The states in particular refused to
                    cooperate with the federal government, and both the states and the Union shirked their respective
                    obligations to enforce the militia laws. At the root of the problem was the disinclination of the
                    voting citizens who were militiamen to serve as soldiers, and the consequent disinclination of
                    elected officeholders, whether state or federal, to press for the implementation of the militia
                    statutes. Dual sovereignty offered politicians at both levels rhetorical excuses for evading
                    unpopular initiatives but did not itself necessitate such evasion.
            By 1803, for example, the "deficiency" of the militia was all "too
                    apparent in some of the states," but a House committee excused the federal government by
                    reporting that imperfections of the militia system arose "from omission on the part of the
                    State Governments."29 Five years later, reacting to the refusal of
                    certain states to employ militia for the enforcement of the Embargo, President Thomas Jefferson
                        
                  
                     28 See Oscar and Mary Handlin, Commonwealth: A Study of
                                the Role of Government in the American Economy: 
                                    Massachusetts
                                , 1774–1861 (
                                New York
                            , 1947); Louis Hartz, Economic Policy and Democratic Thought: 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 1776–1860 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1948); 
                                Milton
                             Sydney Heath, Constructive Liberalism: The Role of the State in
                                Economic Development in 
                                    Georgia
                                 to 1860 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1954).
                  
                     29 Report of the Select Committee on the Militia, House of
                            Representatives, February 7, 1803, American State Papers, Military
                            Affairs, I, 163.
               
                     not only observed that "every degree of neglect is to
                    be found" in the militia but abandoned his usual states rights stance to insist that
                    "Congress alone" possessed "the power to produce an uniform state of
                    preparation in this great organ of defense…."30 A Senate
                    committee dominated by Jeffersonian Democrats rushed to the rescue of Jeffersonian states rights
                    orthodoxy by reiterating that if "the States are anxious for an effective militia, to them
                    belong the power, and to them too belong the means of rendering the militia truly our bulwark in
                    war, and our safeguard in peace…."31 Yet on the very eve of
                    war with Great Britain, the Jeffersonian legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                     endorsed the notion of federal culpability for the militia's deficiencies by
                    professing its "belief that an adequate remedy for the evil rests in the hands of the
                    General Government alone…."32 While Jeffersonians at both
                    the federal and state levels blamed one another for weaknesses in the militia, Federalists wrote off
                    the militia altogether. "Let the Government proceed to regulate the militia to the utmost
                    length," avowed the Federalist adjutant general of 
                        Connecticut
                     in 1810; "… it will be just so far as to make them food for powder
                    in the day of battle…."33
            
            The militia system of the 
                        United States
                     did provide an immense reservoir of the most basic military resource, manpower. By 1812
                    there were not only enough militiamen to invade 
                        Canada
                     but more than enough to repopulate 
                        Canada
                    . That year, with the returns of 
                        Louisiana
                     and two territories missing and those of all but nine states in arrears, militia
                    strength was estimated at 719,449 men.34 Two years later, with returns from 
                        Louisiana
                     and three territories missing and some revision of the figures caused by casualties,
                    exemptions, the updating of statistics, and the enlistment of militiamen in the regular and
                    provisional armies, a Senate committee estimated that of the country's 1,102,437 free white
                    male 
                  
                     30 Jefferson's Eighth Annual Message, November 8, 1808, in
                            James D. Richardson, A Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the
                            Presidents (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1896–1899), I, 455. James 
                                Madison
                             agreed; see 
                                Madison
                            's Second Annual Message, December 5, 1810, ibid.,
                            486.
                  
                     31 Report of the Select Committee on the Militia, U.S. Senate, March
                            6, 1810, American State Papers, Military Affairs, I, 256.
                  
                     32 Resolution of the General Assembly of 
                                Kentucky
                            , addressed to the House of Representatives of the 
                                United States
                            , March 6, 1812, ibid., 318.
                  
                     33 Gen. Ebenezer 
                                Huntington
                             to Congressman Benjamin Tallmadge, January 5, 1810, ibid.,
                            263.
                  
                     34 War Department Annual Militia Return for 1812, February 13, 1813,
                                ibid., 332.
               
                     citizens between the ages of sixteen and forty-five, at least
                    711,551 were enrolled militiamen.35 The Adjutant General's Office and
                    the Bureau of Pensions later reported that 458,463 of the 527,654 soldiers, sailors, and marines who
                    saw service during the war were men drawn from, mustered, and deployed as militia.36
            
            The problem lay in the failure to organize, discipline, supply, and employ the manpower provided by
                    the system in the most profitable fashion. Speaking in 1787 to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's convention for the ratification of the Constitution, James Wilson had warned
                    that "any gentleman, who possesses military experience, will inform you that men without a
                    uniformity of arms, accoutrements, and discipline, are no more than a mob in camp; that, in the
                    field, instead of assisting, they interfere with one another." Wilson's reproof
                    survived to mock James 
                        Madison
                    's presidential years: "How powerful and respectable must the body of
                    the militia appear under general and uniform regulations ! How disjointed, weak, and inefficient
                    they are at present!"37
            
            The first requirement for an efficient militia was organization. The militias were not a single
                    homogeneous body. Although the organic act of 1792 established norms for the organization of militia
                    forces, it did not provide for federal supervision and enforcement. Eighteen states, four
                    territories, and the District of 
                        Columbia
                     enrolled men in the standing militia or accepted volunteers into the uniformed corps
                    under the provisions of twenty-three different collections of local statutes. In 1803, in an attempt
                    to introduce a measure of federal supervision, the states and territories were obliged to submit
                    annual militia returns to the war department.38 But between 1803 and 1812 the
                    proportion of the states and territories which complied with this regulation declined from 88 to 39
                    percent. In 1812 only nine state and territorial governments bothered to forward the figures.39 Clerical errors were not the only evidence of neglect. Two 
                  
                     35 Report of the Select Committee on the Militia, U.S. Senate, 1814,
                                ibid., 523.
                  
                     36 Upton, The Military Policy of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 137.
                  
                     37 James Wilson to the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Constitutional Ratification Convention, December 11, 1787, Elliot, Debates, II,
                            521–22.
                  
                     38
                            U.S. Statutes, II, 207 (March 2, 1803).
                  
                     39 Riker, Soldiers of the States, 25; Militia Return
                            for 1812, February 13, 1813, American State Papers, Military Affairs, I,
                            331–34.
               
                     years after the commencement of hostilities, the governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     found it impossible to call out militia for the defense of 
                        Washington
                     because the state legislature had allowed 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's militia laws to lapse.40
            
            To permit calling the militia into federal service, congressional legislation provided a number of
                    methods by which the transfer of jurisdiction could occur. Acts passed in 1792 and 1795 allowed the
                    national government to make an emergency levy upon the whole, or upon any portion of, the state
                    militias. Such levies, or so called general "drafts" of militia, might be used to
                        "execute the laws of the Union, to suppress insurrection, and repel
                        invasions"41 but "no officer, noncommissioned
                    officer, or private of the Militia [could] be compelled to serve more than three months, after his
                    arrival at the place of rendezvous, in any one year." Some restrictions were placed upon
                    the employment of levies beyond the boundaries of their home states, but such employment was not
                        prohibited.42 The "detachment" or
                    "requisition" acts of 1803, 1806, 1808, and 1812 required the several governors to
                    put selected portions of their respective militias on alert status when requested to do so by the
                    federal government. Rather like the minutemen of the Revolutionary era, alerted detachments were to
                    be kept ready "to march at a moment's warning" when called into the field
                    by federal authority. The duration of detached service was limited to six months, but no additional
                    statutory circumscriptions were placed upon the use of requisitions. While it was assumed that most
                    requisitions would be filled by state drafts, the president was authorized to permit governors to
                    accept volunteers in lieu of conscripts.43 Since both the acts of 1795 and 1812
                    were in effect during the war,44 provision existed for the mass draft of three
                    month levies and for the selective requisition of either drafted or volunteer detachments for terms
                    of service 
                  
                     40 Documentary evidence is collected in Edward D. Ingraham, A Sketch of the Events Which Preceded the Capture of 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1849), 44–45.
                  
                     41
                            U.S. Statutes, I, 264 (May 2, 1792), substantially renacted in ibid., 424 (February 28, 1795).
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 424.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., II, 241 (March 3, 1803), 383–84 (April 18, 1806),
                            478–79 (March 30, 1808), 705–707 (April 10, 1812).
                  
                     44 Report of the Select Committee on the Militia, House of
                            Representatives, January 14, 1814, American State Papers, Military
                            Affairs, I, 438. The act of 1795 was repealed in 1861; that of 1812 was reenacted in
                            1814.
               
                     not exceeding six months. The concurrent operation of parallel
                    legislation forming a distinct provisional army of federal volunteers45 left no
                    doubt that drafts and detachments of the militia retained their status as militia while in the
                    national service.
            An examination of operative legislation indicates that the refusal of governors in 
                  Vermont, Connecticut
               , and 
                        Massachusetts
                     to convey their militia forces "out of the[ir] jurisdiction or
                    controul" during the war46 was not caused by inadequacies or oversights
                    in the body of laws covering the system of militia organization but rather by the
                    governors' refusal to obey the laws. The New 
                        England
                     governors contested presidential authority to federalize militia without their
                    consent—a novel argument which, when adjudicated by the Supreme Court in 1827, was
                    settled in favor of the national government.47 The fact that the law was
                    disobeyed does not constitute criticism of the legislation then in force, or of the militia system
                    itself.
            Similarly, the occasional refusal of some militia levies to cross boundaries was not due to
                    weaknesses in the system of militia organization, but rather to the ill discipline of the militiamen
                    involved. At Queenstown, for example, during the first major field engagement of the war, a herd of
                    untrained three month levies drawn from the 
                        New York
                     militia "absolutely refused to cross" the Niagara
                    River in order to rescue a small advance party caught in a fire fight on the Canadian
                    shore. Even though the Yorkers could see a column of British regulars rolling over their
                    compatriots, "neither the orders, nor threats, nor remonstrances" of their
                    commander, General Stephen 
                        Van
                        Rensselaer
                    , served to drive 
                  
                     45
                            U.S. Statutes, II, 241 (March 3, 1803) was an amalgam of militia procedure
                            and precedents from John Adams' provisional army: ibid., I,
                            558–61 (May 28, 1798), and 725–27 (March 2, 1799). Subsequent
                            legislation concerning the provisional army distinguished it from the militia: ibid., II, 419–20 (February 24, 1807), 670 (January 2, 1812),
                            676–77 (February 6, 1812), and 785–86 (July 6, 1812).
                  
                     46 Quoting Governor Martin Chittenden, Proclamation, November 10,
                            1813, Brannan, Official Letters, 261–62. Chittenden, the
                            Federalist governor of 
                                Vermont
                            , emulated earlier action by Roger Griswold and John Cotton Smith of 
                                Connecticut
                             and Caleb Strong of 
                                Massachusetts
                            . American State Papers, Military Affairs, I, [321]-26,
                            604–23, 675. The governor of 
                                Virginia
                             held similar views. See documents in Ingraham, Sketch of the
                                Events, especially 46. Some citizens in 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Maryland
                             agreed. David Thompson, History of the Late War between Great
                                Britain and the 
                                    United States
                                 of America… (2nd ed., 
                                Toronto
                            , 1845), 274, 294–95.
                  
                     47
                            Martin vs. Mott, XII Wheaton 19
                            (1827).
               
                     them across the river.48 But not even the
                    Queenstown debacle was an indictment of the militia system; instead, in the estimation of 
                        Van
                        Rensselaer
                    's successor, it was "a caution against relying on
                        crowds…."49 By way of contrast, a year later, when
                    directed by their governor to withdraw from 
                        New York
                     soil, a disciplined brigade of 
                        Vermont
                     militiamen refused to obey, replying that "we are under paramount obligation
                    to our common country, to the great confederacy of the states."50
            
            The chief difference between a crowd and an army is discipline. Writing to James 
                        Monroe
                     in 1813, Jefferson insisted that "we must train and classify the whole of our
                    male citizens, and make military instruction a part of collegiate education."51 Six years earlier Jefferson had come to the conclusion that a
                    "well-regulated" militia demanded federal supervision of training52 and, borrowing a leaf from 
                        Knox
                    , Jefferson had gone so far as to recommend "a classification which shall
                    constitute a select and a reserve militia"—that is, a trained cadre plus a
                    manpower pool. Early in 1810 a Senate committee reviewed this proposal but reported that
                    "prejudices against such a mode of organization in many parts of the Union" made
                    such a project impractical.53 Later that same year, President Madison, insisting
                    that the militia "should be instructed and practiced in the rules by which 
                  
                     48 Lieut. Col. John Chrystie to Maj. Gen. Thomas H. Gushing, February
                            22, 1813, in John Armstrong, Notices of the War of 1812 (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1840), I, 216. See also Maj. Gen. Stephen 
                                Van
                             Eensselaer to Secretary of War William Eustis, October 14, 1812, in Solomon 
                                Van
                                Rensselaer
                            , A Narrative of the Affair at Queenstown (
                                New York
                            , 1836), appendix, 66–67. On the general topic of campaigns along the
                            Niagara frontier, see Louis L. Babcock, The War of 1812 on the Niagara
                            Frontier (
                                Buffalo
                            , 1827); Ernest A. Cruikshank, Documentary History of the Campaign
                                Upon the Niagara Frontier (9 vols., Weiland, Ont., 1896–1908); and
                            Morris Zaslow, The Defended Border: Upper 
                                    Canada
                                 and the War of 1812 (
                                Toronto
                            , 1964).
                  
                     49 Armstrong, Notices, I, 117. See also Armstrong to
                            Harrison, April 4, 1813, ibid., 245–48.
                  
                     50 Lieut. Col. Luther Dixon to Chittenden, November [?], 1813,
                            Brannan, Official Letters, 262–63.
                  
                     51 Jefferson to 
                                Monroe
                            , June 18, 1813, quoted in Charles M. Wiltse, The Jeffersonian
                                Tradition in American Democracy (Chapel Hill, 1935), 135.
                  
                     52 Jefferson to 
                                Madison
                            . May 5, 1807, in Paul L. Ford, ed., The Works of Thomas
                            Jefferson (12 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1892–1899), X, 392. See also Jefferson's Eighth Annual
                            Message, November 8, 1808, in Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
                            Presidents, I, 455.
                  
                     53 Report of the Select Committee on the Militia, U.S. Senate, March
                            6, 1810, American State Papers, Military Affairs, I, 256.
               
                     they are to be governed," urged Congress to consider
                    calling "into the field at the public expense and for a given time certain portions of the
                    commissioned and noncommissioned officers" so that they might be drilled. 
                        Madison
                     hoped that the "instruction and discipline thus acquired would gradually
                    diffuse through the entire body of the militia…."54 But
                    because of states rights scruples and the expense involved, Congress declined to entertain 
                        Madison
                    's scheme, and did nothing.
            In strict conformity with the Constitution, the Militia Act of 1792 lodged responsibility for
                    training the militia with the states. Militiamen were expected to turn out at periodic drills, four
                    days a year, to practice the evolutions and maneuvers of line infantry. This arrangement, however,
                    left supervision to the discretion of state legislators, who, in, Edmund 
                        Randolph
                    's estimation, "courted popularity too much to enforce a proper
                        discipline."55 The power to coerce attendance at musters was
                    surrendered to military courts "composed of militia officers only."56 Since most such officers were neighborhood men popularly elected to rank, they seldom
                    imposed more than a token fine on an absentee. The days set apart for militia drill soon became
                    occasions for visiting and conviviality; except for the members of uniformed companies who enjoyed
                    marching in parade, even the militiamen who reported for duty were not bothered by very much
                        drill.57 The failure to enforce training produced predictable results.
                    Victories on the battlefield, said Harrison, could only be won "by those disciplined
                    evolutions which give harmony and concert to numerous bodies of men, and enable whole armies to move
                    with the activity and address of single combatants." But the War of 1812
                    "repeatedly exhibited the melancholy fact, of large corps of militia going to the field of
                    battle 
                  
                     54
                            
                                Madison
                            's Second Annual Message, December 5, 1810, in Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, I, 486.
                  
                     55 Debate on the Militia, August 23, 1787, Farrand, Records, II, 387.
                  
                     56
                            U.S. Statutes, I, 264 (May 2, 1792), substantially reenacted in ibid., 424 (February 28, 1795). Despite congressional acknowledgment that
                            the system was ineffectual (American State Papers, Military Affairs, I,
                            256), it was reenacted again on February 2, 1813, in U.S. Statutes, II,
                            797.
                  
                     57 See American State Papers, Military Affairs, II,
                            314–19, 329–37, 389–95, and 527–29. See also
                            Martha Swain, "It Was Fun to Be a Soldier," American
                            Heritage, VII (August, 1956), 12–23.
               
                     without understanding a single elementary principle, and
                    without being able to perform a single evolution."58
            
            One factor which encouraged the disregard for training was the patriotic myth that "the
                    greater part of the American militia" was, as Harrison thought, "accustomed from
                    their early youth to the use of a fire-arms…."59 But during
                    the war a veteran staff officer saw "so many militia-men… who are not skilled in
                    the use of the Rifle or Musket" that he published a drill manual which devoted an entire
                    page to the elementary art of fixing a flint in a cock.60 The twenty-three
                    distinct motions necessary to prime, load, ram, and set a firelock could not be mastered by a raw
                    citizen-soldier while enroute from an armory to a battlefield with a brand new weapon in his fist.
                    Yet thousands of militiamen showed up at Queenstown, Bladensburg, 
                        New Orleans
                    , and other battlefields utterly innocent of any acquaintance with the firearms they
                        carried.61 Even men who knew how to work a muzzle loader needed discipline
                    to use their muskets in a fire fight.62 When confronting a force of British
                    regulars who habitually formed and maneuvered "with so much coolness and precision as if
                    the whole had been nothing more than a review,"63 American militiamen
                    tended to deliver one volley, break, and flee.64 In battle only a thoroughly
                    drilled automaton 
                  
                     58 Report of the Select Committee on Militia Reorganization, House of
                            Representatives, January 17, 1817, American State Papers, Military
                            Affairs, I, 663, 664. As a congressman in 1817, Harrison chaired this committee.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 663.
                  
                     60 Charles K. Gardner, Compend of the 
                                    United States
                                 System of Infantry Exercise and Maneuvers (
                                New York
                            , 1819), 247; see also 28–34.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Van
                                Rensselaer
                             to Lieut. Col. John Fenwick, September 15, 1812, to Maj. Gen. Henry Dearborn,
                            September 1, 1812, and to Governor Daniel D. Tompkins, September 15, 1812, in 
                                Van
                                Rensselaer
                            , Queens-town, appendix, 49, 37–38, and 53; Col.
                            George Minor to Congressman R. M. Johnson. October 30, 1814, American State
                                Papers, Military Affairs, I, 569; Leonard D. White, The
                            Jeffersonians (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 221; Maj. Gen. Andrew Jackson to 
                                Monroe
                            , January 9, 1815, Palmer, Historical Register, IV, 291; W. C.
                            C. Claiborne to Governor Willie Blout, January 4, 1815, and to 
                                Madison
                            , January 19, 1815, in Dunbar Rowland, Official Letter Books of W.
                                C. C. Claiborne, 1801–1816 (6 vols., Jackson, Miss., 1917), VI, 330,
                            334. For the 
                                New Orleans
                             campaign, see Charles B. Brooks, The Siege of 
                                    New Orleans
                                
                      (
                                Seattle
                            , 1961).
                  
                     62 Gardner, Infantry Exercise and Maneuvers, 47.
                  
                     63 [Gleig], A Subaltern in America, 128.
                  
                     64 For particular examples, of which there are scores, see the battle
                            reports in Palmer, Historical Register, II, 231, 336, and IV,
                            132–33, 193, 221; in Brannan, Official Letters, 289, 369-70;
                            and in James, Military Occurrences, II, 410, 489, 561.
               
                     could reload with deliberation; the undisciplined militiaman,
                    caught in the open with a discharged musket in his hands, lacked the steadiness to stand fast and
                    take the time to reload. "The firmness requisite for the real business of
                    fighting," as 
                        Washington
                     had warned, could only "be attained by a constant course in discipline and
                        service…,"65
            
            In conformity with colonial custom the Militia Act of 1792 required militiamen to arm and equip
                    themselves. Since most male householders were militiamen, this supply system theoretically provided
                    a fairly equitable substitute for defense taxation, and it promised to simplify the administration
                    of military logistics. But in 1794, when many of the militiamen who turned out to put down the
                    Whisky Rebellion reported for duty without weapons or equipment,66 it became
                    evident that militiamen were not complying with the law. The federal government periodically
                    reminded the states that they were obliged to insure that every militiaman was "constantly
                    provided with arms, accoutrements, and ammunition."67 In 1798,
                    convinced that reminders were not enough, the federal government offered to sell the states 30,000
                    stand of arms.68 In 1808 Congress attempted to use the power of the purse to
                    encourage the annual submission of militia returns. It appropriated $200,000 to purchase
                    "arms and military equipments for the whole body of the militia" and offered to
                    donate these supplies gratis to the states in proportion to the numbers of enrolled militia annually
                        reported.69 This appropriation was repeated each year thereafter. Yet by
                    1812 only 12,250 stand of the 30,000 made available in 1798 had been purchased (by
                            
                  Delaware, Maryland
               , and 
                        Georgia
                    ), and only $94,792 of the $1,000,000 appropriated since 1808 had
                    been spent. This disbursement purchased 31,640 stand of arms, of which only 16,098 were actually
                    transferred to the states before the war. An additional 8,100 were loaned to various uniformed
                    militia corps.70
            
            
               
                  65
                        
                            Washington
                         to the President of Congress, September 15, 1780, Fitzpatrick, Writings of George 
                                Washington
                            
                  , XX, 49–50.
               
                  66 Leonard D. White, The Federalists (
                            New York
                        , 1948), 420–21.
               
                  67
                        U.S. Statutes, II, 490 (April 23, 1808).
               
                  68
                        Ibid., I, 576 (July 6, 1798). One "stand of arms" consisted
                        of one smooth-bore, muzzle-load, flintlock musket, its ramrod, its bayonet and scabbard, and
                        sundry pieces of related equipment.
               
                  69
                        Ibid., II, 490 (April 23, 1808).
               
                  70
                        American State Papers, Military Affairs, I, 327–29, 337; White, The Jeffersonians, 532.
            
            
            When hostilities broke out in 1812, the shortage of weapons and materiel was endemic.
                            
                  New York, Kentucky, Virginia
               , indeed
                    almost every state which committed militia forces to battle sent unarmed men off to war.71 "I am ready," asserted the governor of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , "… to call out the militia… but we are destitute of
                    almost every necessary for the comfort and subsistence of those men, and for making them effective,
                    as soldiers. We are without tents, equipage, and provisions, and have a very inadequate supply of
                    cannon, muskets, and ammunition."72 While promising to forward troops
                    as expeditiously as possible, the governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     relied "on the deficiency [in arms and accoutrements] being supplied by the 
                        United States
                     as promptly as practicable, to render the men… efficient."73 Had the states exercised a modicum of foresight and had the militiamen
                    themselves adhered to the supply system instituted in 1792, such situations would not have arisen.
            Abstract debates concerning the constitutional responsibility for the militia did not cause the
                    militia's deterioration. Had the people given the militia system greater support, their
                    elected representatives at both the national and the state levels would have been less disposed to
                    advance litigious arguments justifying evasions of responsibility for the maintenance of the
                    militia. The debates and the excuses were merely symptomatic of the country's prevalent
                    spirit, a spirit which combined egalitarian individualism and economic opportunism with an aversion
                    to military service. Even during the Revolution, it had been apparent that many Americans not only
                    disliked standing armies, but resisted soldiering in any guise. Once the Revolution ended and men
                    became busy with civilian affairs, that attitude only intensified.74
            
            Addressing 
                        Virginia
                    's constitutional ratification convention, Francis Corbin had warned that if
                    "our defense be 
                  
                     71 Brig. Gen. Peter B. Porter, "To the Public,"
                            December 14, 1812, in Brannan, Official Letters, 106; and note 61, above.
                            A cursory examination of battle reports turned up seventeen additional instances in which
                            substantial militia units arrived at rendezvous or on the battlefield without weapons.
                  
                     72 Governor William James to 
                                Monroe
                            , September 8, 1814, American State Papers, Military Affairs,
                            I, 622.
                  
                     73 Executive Secretary N. B. Boileau to Armstrong, August 27, 1814,
                            Ingraham, Sketch of the Events, 45–46.
                  
                     74 See Bernardo and Bacon, American Military Policy,
                            6–10, 19–22, 25–31, 77–82,
                        93–108.
               
                     solely trusted to militia, ignorance of arms, and negligence of
                    farming, will ensue…,"75 In practice Americans slighted the
                    arts of war in order to concentrate upon the rewards of peace. As Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                     had predicted, the "industrious habits of the people… absorbed in
                    the pursuits of gain, and devoted to the improvements of agriculture and commerce," proved
                    to be "incompatible with the condition of a nation of soldiers…,"76 Reporting to a House committee after the War of 1812, Harrison noted that the
                    "sentiments and habits of a free country necessarily produce amongst the citizens a
                    superior restlessness under restraint than is to be met with in the subjects of a monarchy. This
                    spirit frequently manifests itself even in a career of military service…. There can
                    scarcely be a restraint more vexatious and disgusting to a grown man, than the initiatory lessons of
                    the military art…. It is believed that to this cause is to be attributed the little
                    progress which has been made in training the militia of thee [sic] 
                        United States
                    ."77
            
            The militia system established in 1792 did not fail in 1812 because the system envisioned by the
                    Militia Act was not really tried during the war. The system was designed to provide a "well
                    regulated" militia, organized, trained, supplied, and ready for service in the field.
                    Generally speaking, the crowds of militiamen who reported to rendezvous came to war unorganized,
                    poorly drilled, ill equipped, and unprepared. Once committed to combat, these crowds were often
                    deployed as if they were experienced line infantry—exposed on open ground and expected to
                    maneuver and fire with the steady precision of synthetic regulars.78 It would be
                    difficult to imagine any tactic less suited to the talents of raw enlistees. War, as Fortescue
                    remarked, is "an ugly thing at 
                  
                     75 Francis Corbin to the 
                                Virginia
                             Constitutional Ratification Convention, June 8, 1788, Elliot, Debates, III, 112–13.
                  
                     76 Alexander 
                                Hamilton
                            , "The Federalist No. 8," in Earle, Federalist, 44.
                  
                     77 Report of the Select Committee on Militia Reorganization, House of
                            Representatives, January 17, 1817, American State Papers, Military
                            Affairs, I, 664.
                  
                     78 [Gleig], A Subaltern in America, 67, 72; Rear
                            Adm. George Cockburn to Vice Adm. John B. Warren, April 20, 1813, James, Military Occurrences, II, 405; Col. Edward Baynes to Prevost, May 30, 1813, ibid., I, 415; Maj. Gen. Robert Ross to Bathurst, August 30, 1814, ibid., II, 497; 
                                Brown
                             to Armstrong, June 1, 1813, Palmer, Historical Register, II,
                            231; Report of the Court of Inquiry in the Case of Brigadier General Winder, February 25,
                            1815, Ingraham, Sketch of the Events, 64.
               
                     the best of times, [but it] is rarely so inhuman as when waged
                    by amateurs."79
            
            The militia system was meant to insure that citizen soldiers would not be amateurs. Some of them were
                    not. Harrison's "
                        Pittsburgh
                     Blues," a company of uniformed militia, consistently "behave [d]
                    well" and were praised in dispatches on a number of occasions.80 Teams
                    of uniformed cannoneers, such as those who participated in the bombardment of Fort Niagara and in
                    the defense of Fort McHenry, were also extolled by their commanders.81 Uniformed 
                        Maryland
                     militiamen "distinguished themselves gloriously" during the raid on
                    York (
                        Toronto
                    ).82 The Fifth 
                        Maryland
                     Infantry, a regiment of standing militia composed of uniformed companies from 
                        Baltimore
                    , was the only militia unit at Bladensburg to put up a fight—one British line
                    officer thought the Fifth 
                        Maryland
                     was a regiment of regulars.83 The governor of 
                        Louisiana
                     advised General Jackson that "much confidence may be reposed" in the
                    uniformed companies from 
                        New Orleans
                    .84 In the battle against Packenham's regulars these
                    militiamen "realized all the anticipations which the general had formed of their
                    conduct," displaying "courage and perseverence in the performance of their
                        duty."85 Uniformed corps, organized, drilled, equipped, and made up
                    of men who wanted to soldier, provided one demonstration that the militia system could work.
            Leadership, training, adequate supplies, and sensible tactical deployment could also turn levies from
                    the standing militia into fair soldiers in relatively short order. Confidence "produced by
                    valor and intrepidity" marked the service of "the greater part of the
                    militia" who campaigned with 
                  
                     79 Fortescue, History of the British Army, IX, 349.
                  
                     80 Harrison to Armstrong, May 13, 1813, Palmer, Historical Register, II, 206; Harrison to 
                                Monroe
                            , January 13, 1813, and Lieut. Col. John B. Campbell to Harrison, December 25,
                            1812, Brannan, Official Letters, 109, 113.
                  
                     81 Lieut. Col. George McFeeley to Maj. Gen. Alexander Smyth, November
                            25, 1812, and Lieut. Col. George Armistead to 
                                Monroe
                            , September 24, 1814, Palmer, Historical Register, II, 117,
                            and IV, 199.
                  
                     82 Capt. Stephen Moore to [?] Moore, May 5, 1813, Brannan, Official Letters, 152.
                  
                     83 Winder to Armstrong, August 27, 1814, Palmer, Historical Register, IV, 130; Lieut. Col. Joseph Sterett to Congress, November 22,
                            1814, American State Papers, Military Affairs, I, 568; [Gleig], A Subaltern in America, 74.
                  
                     84 Claiborne to Jackson, November 5, 1814, Rowland, Letter Books, VI, 310.
                  
                     85 Jackson, General Order, January 21, 1815, Brannan, Official Letters, 479.
               
                    
                    
                  RAKE BROADSIDE OF THE BATTLE OF TIPPECANOE
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     Harrison through the first winter of the war.86 Militiamen who fought along the Niagara frontier needed time to learn the military arts,
                    but they did learn. After being routed at Chippewa, Porter's troops hurled themselves upon
                    the British batteries at Lundy's Lane with such élan that the
                    reports of both the American and the British commanders took special note of their performance.87 Struck from ambush by a large force of Creek Indians, Jackson's 
                        Tennessee
                     militia brigade "met the approach of the enemy with astonishing intrepidity,
                    and having given a few fires, they forthwith charged with great vigour…,"88 In September, 1814, a division of 
                        New York
                     militia draftees and a brigade from 
                        Vermont
                     stood shoulder to shoulder with 1,500 raw regulars in the entrenchments below the
                    Saranac and beat back the British thrust toward Plattsburg.89 That same month
                    General John Strieker's 
                        Maryland
                     brigade, including many of the same elements which had broken at Bladensburg, covered
                    the approaches to 
                        Baltimore
                     "like men who were determined not to be beaten…."90 The British commander was picked off by some 
                        Maryland
                     conscript, and the royal expeditionary force was smartly repulsed. And below 
                        New Orleans
                     an entrenched army, composed, for the most part, of standing militia trained and
                    disciplined by Jackson, "triumphed over the invincibles of Wellington, and conquered the
                    conquerors of Europe."91
            
            Given drill, discipline, preparation, arms, and leadership, the militia could fight. In the two
                    decades between the establishment of the militia system and the War of 1812, however, the military
                    potential of the militia system was undermined by the society it was designed to defend. The federal
                    government could have done more to supervise and standardize training and to press for the
                    enforcement of the the militia laws. But respect for the rights of the states, the individualistic
                    and secular temper of the American population, 
                  
                     86 Harrison to Armstrong, March 17, 1813, Armstrong, Notices, I, 245.
                  
                     87
                            
                                Brown
                             to Armstrong, August [?], 1814, Palmer, Historical Register,
                            IV, 56–60; Drummond to Prevost, July 27, 1814, James, Military
                                Occurrences, II, 437.
                  
                     88 Jackson to Maj. Gen. Thomas Pinckney, January [2]9, 1814, Palmer,
                                Historical Register, IV, 268.
                  
                     89 Macomb to 
                                Monroe
                            , September 15, 1814, ibid., 220–24.
                  
                     90 [Gleig], A Subaltern in America, 125, 133;
                            Strieker to Smith, September 15, 1814, Palmer, Historical Register, IV,
                            194.
                  
                     91 Jackson's Farewell Address to his army, March [?], 1815,
                            Brannan, Official Letters, 469.
               
                     and the suspicion of federal intervention engendered by the
                    Whisky Rebellion and the Embargo, all prevailed against radical federal initiatives. The states, on
                    the other hand, could certainly have acted with greater determination to enforce the militia system
                    and to take advantage of the guidance and support offered by the national government. The chief
                    fault for the failure to implement the system— which was, before all else, meant to be
                    the cornerstone for the defense of states rights92—must be assigned
                    to the states. And if the American people had really wanted a well regulated militia, they could
                    have prepared and maintained one.
            In later years, arguments for the professionalization of the American military were largely based
                    upon an erroneous impression of the history of the militia system. Instead of acknowledging that
                    only the implementation of the system had been found wanting in 1812, such arguments started with
                    the premise that the system itself had never been feasible. But had the Jeffersonians enforced their
                    militia system, it seems clear that the militiamen who went to war in 1812 would have been better
                    prepared to prove the system's potential and that there might well have been less need or
                    demand for the expansion of the regular establishment in subsequent years.
            Finally, the militia's early decline suggests that much of the fault for the erosion of
                    state authority under federalism belongs to the states themselves. Having struggled to achieve the
                    principle that a well regulated militia is "necessary to the security of a free
                    State," the states, during the first twenty years of the Second Amendment's
                    operation, virtually abdicated responsibility for maintaining their militia forces. By 1878, when
                    militia officers formed the National Guard Association to lobby for the interests of the state
                    militias, even these soldiers of the states had forgotten why the militias existed. Assuming that
                    the national government was primarily responsible for the subsidization and supervision of state
                    militia forces, the National Guard Association took it for granted that only federal funds and
                    federal discipline could revive the militia system.93
            
            
               
                  92 The Second Amendment to the Constitution; Elliot, Debates, II, 406, 545, 552, and III, 206, 382, 385, 395, 416-17, 419, 424, 600, and passim.
               
                  93 F. P. Dodd, "Our National Guard: An Introduction to Its
                        History," Military Affairs, V (Fall, 1941), 162–63. The
                        National Guard (Dyer) Act of 1903 replaced the Militia Act of 1792 as the organic law for the
                        militia.
            
         
         
         
            Erasmus Gest's Recollections of Life in the Middle West in the 1830s
            
                    Edited by Charles R. Schultz
                    ∗
                
            Internal improvements—turnpikes, canals, and railroads —preoccupied government
                    and business in many areas of the 
                        United States
                     during the 1820s and 1830s. Nowhere was the activity greater than in the Middle West.
                    As early as 1822 James 
                        Brown
                     Ray, a lawyer and member of the Indiana senate from 
                        Brookville
                    , suggested that a canal be built along the Whitewater River in
                    southeastern Indiana. Four years later the Indiana legislature granted a charter to the Whitewater
                    Canal Company. It was not until early June, 1834, however, that a survey of the route was made over
                    the seventy-six miles from Nettle Creek in 
                        Wayne County
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on the Ohio River. In spite of the fact that there was a fall of
                    491 feet in the seventy-six miles and the canal would require fifty-six locks, seven dams, and
                    twelve aqueducts, construction soon began on the project, the estimated cost of which was over one
                    million dollars. Optimistic predictions of annual profits had a bearing on the decision to proceed.
                    The canal company was constantly in financial trouble because the sharp fall created a rapid flow of
                    water which regularly caused extensive damages. In 1864–1865 the canal was sold and a
                    railroad was constructed along the tow-path. Portions of the Whitewater Canal continued to serve as
                    a source of power for mills and for the generation of hydroelectric power for nearly a century.1
            
            
               
                  ∗ Charles R. Schultz is university archivist at 
                            Texas
                         A&M University, College Station. Appreciation is here expressed to the 
                            Ohio
                         Historical Society for permission to publish Gest's recollections and some
                        of his illustrations relating to the Whitewater Canal, and to the 
                            Cincinnati
                         Historical Society for permission to publish the photograph of Gest.
               
                  1 Paul Fatout, Indiana Canals (West 
                            Lafayette
                        , 1972), 27, 33, 59, 62, 149–56; Fred W. Eley, "The White Water
                        Canal," Indiana History Bulletin, XVII (February, 1940),
                        69–75; Chelsea A. Lawlis, "Changes in the Whitewater
                        Valley, 1840-1850," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV
                        (March, 1948), 70–82; James M. Miller, "The Whitewater Canal," ibid., III (September, 1907), 108–15.
            
            
            In the 1830s persons in 
                        Ohio
                    , especially merchants of 
                        Cincinnati
                     who desired the trade of southeastern Indiana, pushed for a canal westward from 
                        Cincinnati
                     into Indiana to intersect the Whitewater Canal between the Whitewater
                    River and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on the Ohio River. In 1837 the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Whitewater Canal Company was formed by merchants in the 
                        Queen City
                     who immediately sought state aid for the project. They succeeded in obtaining a stock
                    subscription of $150,000 from the state and one of $400,000 from the city of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Whitewater Canal was completed in 1843, although there was an interruption of
                    activities for some time early in 1839 because of the bleak economic situation throughout the
                        area.2
            
            One of the men who worked on the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Whitewater Canal was Erasmus Gest. Son of Joseph and Rebekah Gest, he was born in 
                        Cincinnati
                     on April 12, 1820. At the age of fourteen he left his 
                        Quaker
                     home, family, and friends in 
                        Cincinnati
                     to advance his education. He first attended a manual training school in 
                        Dayton
                     and then went to a high school in 
                        Springfield
                    . On his seventeenth birthday he began his first job, that of a rod man on a surveying
                    crew for the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Whitewater Canal. He was promoted to assistant surveyor early in 1839 but was soon
                    released when economic conditions forced suspension of the project. In November, 1839, Gest was
                    appointed an engineer in the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     canal system, and he remained there until April, 1841, when he returned to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to assist his father, who was the city surveyor. Three years later he was elected to
                    succeed his father. He remained in this post until the fall of 1847, when he began a lengthy,
                    somewhat stormy, and frequently controversial association with railroads in the Middle West and
                    West.
            Gest's first position with a railroad was that of an engineer for the Little 
                        Miami
                     Railroad Company, where he remained three years. During the next six years he worked
                    for several railroad companies, including the 
                        Ohio
                     & 
                  Mississippi, Cincinnati
                & 
                  St. Louis, Dayton
                & 
                        Cincinnati
                     Short Line, Four Mile Valley, 
                  Cincinnati, Lebanon
                & Xenia, 
                        Cincinnati
                     & 
                        Cleveland
                     Short Line, and 
                        Cincinnati
                     & 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . In addition, he served several other firms attempting to compiete 
                  
                     2 Harry N. Scheiber, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Canal Era: A Case Study in Government and the Economy,
                            1820–1861 (
                        Athens, Ohio
                     , 1969), 105, 107, 131.
               
                    
                    
                  WHITEWATER CANAL
                  Reproduced from Bernhard Knollenberg, Pioneer Sketches of the Upper
                                Whitewater Valley, 
                                Quaker
                             Stronghold of the West (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XV, No.
                            1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1945), frontispiece.
               
                     a transcontinental railroad. These firms appear to have been
                    paper companies whose only hope for success lay in securing federal land grants.3
            
            In 1856 Gest was elected president and superintendent of the 
                  Cincinnati, Wilmington
               
                    & 
                        Zanesville
                     Railroad. He devoted more time and energy to this firm than to any other company with
                    which he was ever associated. His first stay lasted until 1858. He returned to the company in 1864
                    and remained until the end of 1869.4 During the interval he toured Europe,
                    served as an officer in the Civil War, and worked for several railroads in 
                  Iowa, Minnesota
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            After leaving the 
                  Cincinnati, Wilmington
                & 
                        Zanesville
                     Railroad, Gest acquired an interest in street railroads in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . For a period of years he owned Route 9 and later attempted to buy Route 13. He appears
                    to have retired during the late 1870s or early 1880s but returned to active participation in
                    railroad activities in 1887, when he was named general manager of the 
                        Nevada
                    -
                        California
                    -
                        Oregon
                     Railway at Reno, 
                        Nevada
                    . He retired permanently in 1900 and returned to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .5 He died February 7, 1908, on a farm outside
                            
                  Covington, Kentucky
               .6
            
            During the early 1880s, Erasmus Gest assembled his important papers into twelve or thirteen bound
                    volumes, which were acquired by the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society in 1961.7 In several of the volumes he penned
                    reminiscences on subjects inadequately documented in his surviving papers. Among these writings is
                    Gest's recollections about the conditions 
                  
                     3 This brief summary of Gest's early career is drawn largely
                            from the biographical sketch in Charles R. Schultz, Inventory of the Erasmus
                                Gest Papers (Inventory and Calendar Series, No. 4; 
                                Columbus
                            , 1962). That sketch is based upon a thorough examination of the papers.
                  
                     4 Gest's career with the 
                        Cincinnati, Wilmington
                      & 
                                Zanesville
                             Railroad is discussed in Charles R. Schultz, "Erasmus Gest and the
                                    
                        Cincinnati, Wilmington
                      & 
                                Zanesville
                             Railroad," forthcoming, Railroad History.
                  
                     5
                            Biographical Directory of the Railroad Officials of America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1896), 177; David F. Myrick, Railroads of 
                                    Nevada
                                 and Eastern 
                                    California
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Berkeley
                            , Calif., 1961–1962), I, 352–54.
                  
                     6 Gest's obituary appeared in the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial Tribune, February 8, 1908.
                  
                     7 The volumes are numbered 1–11 and 13. Volume 13 was
                            probably numbered incorrectly, since all volumes follow chronologically without any break. A
                            few items have been removed from some of the volumes, however, so it is remotely possible
                            that an entire volume was destroyed or lost at some time between 1883 and 1961.
               
                    
                    
                  ERASMUS GEST
                  Courtesy 
                                Cincinnati
                             Historical Society, 
                                Cincinnati
                            .
               
                     under which he worked and lived in the late 1830s as a member
                    of a surveying crew for the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Whitewater Canal.
            Eramus Gest's Recollections8
            
            
               How we lived in the Hoosier State. In fact, how a great many people west of the
                    Alleghenies, in the great 
                        Ohio
                     Basin, lived in those days.
            On the 12th day of April 1837 (my 17th Birth day) I left 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and reached Harrison about noon, reported at once, to Col [Simpson] Torbert9 the Chief Engineer of the White water Canal, where also was the principal
                    office of the Line. Mr Martin Coryell the principal asst to whom I was detailed
                    being absent. The Col set me to work copying some paper. In a short time I had it done. [He] gave me
                    more work, in half an hour [I] reported it done [and he] gave me a plan of Culvert to copy, which I
                    completed about 3 oclock, and showed him and asking him for more to do, he looked up at me and
                    remarked "H….L I cant keep you busy", you will have to wait until day
                    after to morrow for Mr Coryells return; in mean time amuse myself the best I could.
            
               Harrison the blessed town of not many houses, mainly made up of one street running
                        due North and South, or as nearly so (as total absence of all instruments for
                    determining a meridian line) excepting as could be done with an old surveyors compass, would permit
                    in the hands of an ignorant man, who knew nothing of the theory of surveying, much less of
                    astronomy. Down the center of this street, ran the boundry line between the great
                        Infant states, 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and as in those days, like in moderan days, people were jealous of state
                    rights; the local jealousy of the denizens in each side of this great street ([Avenue?]) with the
                    states line its center, could only be appeased by having a "Hotel" on each side.
                    The one on the 
                        Ohio
                     side, kept by one D Garrard with 
                  
                     8 The editor has attempted to reproduce these recollections as closely
                            as possible to the original manuscript. Some punctuation has been added for clarity.
                            Vagaries in spelling and capitalization have been retained. Words or phrases underscored by
                            Gest for emphasis have been changed to italics.
                  
                     9 See below for Gest's section entitled "Of the
                            Canal Officials," in which he identified twelve individuals with whom he
                        worked.
               
                     a Grey-Mare trancelucent-nosed-wife, was in an aristocratic
                    frame building, painted white, with the other advantage of being on the corner of
                    the great road from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . While that on the Indiana side, was a derelk [derelict?] two story Log with out buildings, kept by a Blunt, out spoken Hoosier, 6 feet 2 high, with an honest old
                    time industrious wife, nearly as tall, embelished with three strapin Daughters grown, down to sweet
                    15, each bearing the name "Tebbs"—The Father "Colonel
                    Tebbs."
            It was in the D Garrard Hotel, where the general offic was, and consequently in that Hostelry I
                    domiciled and for my first weeks bed & board paid
                    $3—honest money. The wages of the differet grades of service, in the Engineer
                    department, was fixed by Law, that for my service being 1.25 dollars per day, Sunday &
                    tother six all counting ($8.75 per week) with out any extras or allowances whatever. The
                    bigger Bugs got higher pay, but not enough difference, to compensate for the increased laziness,
                    negligence, and dignity. As we had to be absent much of the time our Board had to be regulated on
                    some other basis, than week unit, by the meals. This compelled an accurate account to be kept, so
                    that it could be safely sworne to—as in some cases lodging became an element in the
                    computations, and simplicity of accounts a virtue, hyroglipics were resorted to.10 As any fellow could make a mark and members of the party rumaged their fellow colaborers
                    pockets, the intelligent hyrogliph was dispensed with, and common place figures substituted. This
                    last known cut out the bed record, which was not a very great loss as it prevented remembrance of
                    where we slept, which in many places was not a luxury, the rule being where the bed was clean, there
                    certainly [were] Fleas; where dirty, there [were] Bed bugs, full grown, not only to be seen in the
                    morning, but felt all night. Henceforth 21 meals meant a week, beds thrown out, or ought to have
                    been—other specimens.11 After the first weeks extortions
                    $3—for Board, my engineer companions advised rebellion. The result for ever
                    after the price $2—for 21 meals, dirt included. For a while (until novelty
                    wore away from a Boy of 17 for the first time among strangers earning his living) 
                  
                     10A graph and a line of explanation have been deleted here.
                  
                     11 A graph has been deleted here.
               
                     the eating seemed [so] good at the Aristocratic
                    Hotel—that I soon found my way towards midnight, frequently to the Pantry to steal Pies
                    or other goodies. This however did not last long as I found the cat sound asleep curled around on
                    the top of a big warm Apple Pie, then I remembered that the cat had allways been on hand at the
                    Pantry—thus ended the Pie business.
            In those days white Sugar was a luxury—never seen except at weddings and on extra
                    occasions. We only had a dirty brown Shugar often made dirtier by admixture with sand to add to the
                    profits of the seller. There was allways at the bottom of ones Coffee cup a thick black sediment
                    composed of too many things to enumerate. It was too much for me and invariably I left enough coffee
                    at the bottom to not see the grounds. After a few weeks the Old Grey Mare thought she was so well
                    acquainted that she could boss me in addition to her Husband and lectured me at first about not
                    drinking my coffee all up, as it would save her another cup. Her lecture however did not receive the
                    consideration that the grounds did, and she positively refused to give me more than one cup of
                    Coffee for Breakfast, and I being a good 
                        Quaker
                     rebelled, paid my bill, transferred my quarters to Major Tebbs and rested for the first
                    time permanently under the protecting arm of Indiana.
            Few persons of to day have the remotest idea of how nine tenths of the early settlers lived in 
                        Ohio
                     & Indiana. Whole Families often with a Son in Law or Daughter in law and they
                    with a child or two lived in a Log Cabin with only one room, in which was done the cooking washing
                    eating Sleeping &c &c. This room was also often quite small and at night the beds
                    would, when the Family was large and [had] several adults cover at least three fourths of the Floor,
                    leaving but a small space in front of the fire. The Fire place however was not stunted often
                    covering the whole end of the Cabin from 6 to 8 feet long, 4 feet deep, 6 feet high, in fact I have
                    seen them so long that with only a small fire in ordinary weather one could sett in the corners of
                    them. In our Engineering explorations we were compelled to stop over night at Cabins; and as there
                    were thirteen of us, all young men, it often became a matter of interest to know how we would be
                    disposed of—especially when there was no loft and a large Family. As a rule these cabins
                    were better supplied  with Blankets Quilts &c than any
                    thing else. The food consisted mainly of Salt Pork (fried for Breakfast, Boiled for Dinner Fried for
                    Supper) with chicken jointed and fried, or stewed with Dumpling, Potatoes, and Pickled Pork as
                    variety. The Slateterly Families had a way of Frying over again (adding new pices) the pork from the
                    previous meal, ad infinitum, the result a dish the most unsavory and disagreeable, too much so for
                    imagination. Now, comes to the novice, the crucical period, when for the first
                    time he is brought up at a Cabin with a single room and large Family (another cabin not within five
                    miles) maybe raining or turning cold, with feet wet, allready dark, had nothing to eat since six
                    oclock (maybe five), in the morning. The cabin allready occupied with three or four men as many
                    grown women, and young girl or two just the right age to be interesting, and a lot of juveniles from
                    thence all the way down to the breast. Then for the first time he wishes he had never seen the
                    country, and if he new where to run to he would [,] he certainly would not loose a moment, but be
                    back to his mothers arms, never to leave them again before the night had past, fortunately to him
                    however such refuge is beyond hope, he settles down with his twelve other comrades and for the time
                    is an Arab—he however is not left to himself, is constantly in the way especially of the
                    women getting supper which occupies an hour or more, as they were caught unprepared, not expecting
                    company. To him the minutes are hours, he never was so hungry—bime [by and] by, the
                    grease in the Frying pan begins to splatter, the odor soon fills the room. The women running back
                    and forth, fooling away their time trying to sett the table and make it enticcing, gets almost
                    frantic by another five minutes gone out, coming back may- bee with some preserves, or pickles, or
                    some sweet cake— wishes they were all in h….1, [as he has] had plenty of such
                    things before at home or at his sweet harts—he wants the stuff that makes the room smells
                    so. Ten minutes more the table is sett, he then for the first time notices there
                    are only ten tin plates at the table, things look ominous; however on [e] thought consoles with the
                    idea, politeness will allow the strangers to eat first. The hostess anounces the table
                    ready— it being his first experience under extremes, remembers his mothers lesson
                    teaching politeness, not to be forward &c &c; his Brother Engineers, having been
                    there before, having been  there before [sic],
                    dont stop to remember home rules, the ten seats are at once occupied and the novice is relegated to
                    wait patiently with the two axemen (the laborers of the party) their turn. However in due time after
                    full reflection and further snuffing of the fragrent atmosphere his turn comes and for ten minutes,
                    he has forgot home, hunger rain, the girl of seventeen including the world. Finally he rises from
                    the table, having been oblivious to the hairs, Roaches, and other foreighners, to an orthodox table.
                    In five minutes more wants to go to sleep, in five more is asleep sitting or becoming [excited?].
                    Bime by the table is cleared and and [sic] all the women sett to work, pulling out
                    trundel beds from the two main big beds, then taking off beding in surplus and from some corner in a
                    little while, he sees the beds all ready, such as they are, next he wonders how he is going to
                    undress before all those women, when suddenly he is aroused by the head of the Family starting for
                    the door followed by all the other men including those of his party, who he instinctively follows,
                    and for ten minutes, if raining especially, he has his own time with the rest in the dark. Then the
                    doors open all to go in, not a woman to be seen, nor a light except thrown out by the
                    Fire—then by doing as the others do, he will soon find a place to lie, maybe on a blanket
                    on the Floor with another to cover him. May think it hard, but in five minutes he will be sounder a
                    sleep than he ever was at home and so oversleep himself that, his comrades will have to wake him
                    up—when he will find, Breakfast allmost ready, the women out of the house. In a few
                    minutes more the table set, hunger satisfied and he feels as good as he ever felt in his life, and
                    with some jokes cracked at his expense during the day, goes through his work as well as ever.
            I doubt whether a young person raised in a city with snap and energy can pass a years time with so
                    much genuine satisfaction as he can with an Exploring party of Engineers in a new country. A party
                    in my time consisted of 13. The eldest the two assistants probably not over 30 years of age. The
                    head may be more advanced, but so far as my experience went, liked a good time, a Whisky Punch, a
                    pretty country lass, a good joke, even at their own expense, as the younger members. They would not
                    let on often, look grave, &c &c, but shure as opportunity offered, they never failed
                    to be about on Sundays or other times when we were having a 
                    good time. A locating party have a hard a hard [sic] time, in one way, they are
                    out from day light to dark in winter and at least 12 hours in summer—they have to wade
                    creeks, and swamps, and over rivers the best they can; It is impossible to have changes of clothing;
                    often wet to their knees all day, and if raining all over. In a wooded country like we had in
                    eastern Indiana in 1837–8 with houses few and miles between, the exposure to wet and
                    miasmi constant. As a rule we had much less sickness than one would suppose. I have often thought
                    was it not for well raised boys it would be allmost impossible to get Engineering explorations done.
                    Money would hardly hire the service. It was only in Boys of good raising with snap and determination
                    that would stand it. I have often seen other kind of boys & men run away in a few hours or a
                    few days. In June 1838 Mr S Holeman the Principal Engineer & succesor of Mr Tolbert Decd
                    [deceased] promoted me and put me in charge of an exploring party to make preliminary surveys and
                    locate the extention of the White Water Canal from 
                        Brookville
                     to 
                        Hagerstown
                     some 44 miles. We were until in August. The country was wet and we were scarcely a day
                    in the field with out wet feet and legs. We got through however, and fortunately I went home, the
                    very next day found me with high Fever, rapidly grew worse, for a while considered dangerous, but
                    recovered. Dr John Warder was my Physician (Old School) gave me 20 grains of Calomel at a dose.
                    Salivated me bad. Also bled me; This bleeding is what I think saved me, at the time I was perfectly
                    conscious but in a state, not pleasant, the instant the blood began to flow, relief came and felt
                    like another person and rapidly recovered. In 19 days was pronounced well. I then went on a visit
                    through Maysville, 
                  Paris, Lexington
               , Frankfur[t] & 
                        Louisville
                        Kentucky
                    , returned to Harrison and resumed duties September 23rd 1838.
            We Engineers were favorites with the People wherever we went, especially with the Girls, our personal
                    appearance having been raised in the city, appeared to take with them— this effect was
                    heightened with our White Shirts and clothing not ragid; and as bashful as we
                    were, we were so far ahead in gallantry of their Country Brothers, that we had things our way,
                    pretty much. Again we patronised Singing Schools, and sleighing expiditions in the winter not having
                    much else to do. Could any time when there was snow get up 
                    parties to go off after night, to some hotel five or ten miles away—where there was an
                    extra large room—and have a good time between the lively girls allways ready for fun Hot
                    Whisky Punches and generous suppers. All Country Hotels at that time worthy of the name had an extra
                    large room, usulay used as a Dining room which would be cleared and made ready for Dancing on a few
                    minutes notice. Between the Saturday night Singing Schools during the winter months and the
                    sleighing parties, the oportunity was offered for the young men and Girls to get together, make new
                    acquaintances, and do their Courting (in Country parlance Sparking). Coryell, my superior (having
                    been raised in 
                        Bucks County
                        Pennsylvania
                    , originally settled by the Dutch, Americanised now understand Sparking, more especally
                    bundeling), was an adept in the Singing School-Sleighing party business coupled with good cheer and
                    allways on hand for such enterprises, it became my bounden duty to see him better and being a better
                    Horseman than he, to me fell the duty of providing the vehicular part, and between us good Care was
                    taken to have more Girls than seat room, and when things did not work Right or laged in life and a
                    good snow drift handy, I was at hand to rilieve the Driver, at same time took good care to spill the
                    load at proper place. Then between the reloading and the accident? matters worked more satisfactory
                    to all parties in interest. We also had Fox hunts—on one occasion running the Fox over
                    ten miles, and with an occasional circus, wedding and Tea fights [?] and B[oy]s had good
                    time—another Source of getting through an evening was in a visit from an Engineer
                    stationed elsewhere on the canal when [with] a 1/2 Bushel of Apples or a Lot of Hickery nuts with
                    mulled Cider or Whisky Punch the time would pass lively. If our wages was small our wants were not
                    out of proportion and amply within our Purse. We even supported the luxury of a Horse to ride. Even
                    I had to own a Sulkey if the reader knows what such a vehicle is.12
            
            
                    Of the Canal Officials
                
            Jessee L Williams, Chief Engineer of the State of Indiana. Had charge of all the Public Works in the
                    State 1837 & 8. He was previously an Engineer on the 
                        Miami
                     Canal when 
                  
                     12 Several lines and an illustration have been deleted here.
               
                     building out of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . It was under his directions the 
                        Wabash
                     Canal was built, and for some years after he continued in charge of it as manager. He
                    ultimatly became a Director in the Pittsburg, F 
                        Wayne
                     & 
                        Chicago
                     Rail way and I think continues in that relation although quite aged. (He is still alive
                    1883) He while at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , became intimate with my Father Joseph Gest. It was through that acquaintanc that I
                    secured my employment by the State of Indiana and located at the General Office of the White Water
                    Canal at Harrison. Mr Williams official engagements did not permit him to leave the State Office at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and we saw but little of him.
            After I became connected with Steam Rail ways I often met Mr Williams and scarcly a year has passed
                    since the Ft 
                        Wayne
                     Road was built that I did not meet him at Pittsburg, 
                        New York
                    , or other place. He allways showed his early friendship and our meetings continued
                    pleasant.
            Colnl. Elish Long—was the Acting Commisson of the State—the go between the
                    Chief Engineer and the Resident Engineers on the Canals. He was probably 55 years of age when I knew
                    him, was pleasant company, plain, put on no airs, but quet in manner. He new how to apprecate us
                    young fry, in our ups and downs, in good humor or bad. I certainly never shall forget a night he
                    spent with the Party in what we supposed was in a nice White frame house with its Green shutters
                    &c—it had been sellected specially for its seductive looks, supposing it was
                    something better than the ordinary—things past well enough until we went to bed if
                    thirteen tired chaps like us lying on the floor with a single blanket for Feathers under us (the
                    Colonel in the only bed in the room in one corner) for Pillows each his coat rolled up in a ball.
                    Not more than ten minutes elapsed after the light was put out, than the more sensitive began to show
                    restiveness, a while after commenced exchanging views and become unanimous that there were Bed Bugs
                    about, some said they smelt them, others that they felt some thing crawling over them all the time,
                    others that they could feel them with their hands. By mid night every body was wider awake than ever
                    before in their lives. As for myself being the hot head of the crowd and not given to withholding
                    truthful deserving opinions, had by my oaths attracted Col Longs especial attintion, and he came
                    over to where I was and insisted on exchanging places, 
                    
                  GEST'S DRAWING OF A WHITEWATER CANAL LOCK
               
                    
                    
                  GEST'S DRAWINGOF A WHITEWATER CANAL LOCK
                  Courtesy ohio Historical Society, 
                                Columbus
                            
                  
               
                     which we did as he thought I would not swear so bad, but good
                    lord—the Bugs were so thick in the bed that they over ran me at once and it [was]
                    impossible to put my hand any where either on my body, or the bed but what it rested on bugs. It was
                    from the Frying pan into the Fire, and the change by the Colonel, as he said, as I could do the most
                    and loudest swearing, it was not more than right that I should have the most cause. Such a night. I
                    never experienced and hope no human being ever will have to undergo again. The Coln never let me
                    forget it when we met. After leaving Indiana I never saw him again nor heard of him. I [he] took
                    great fancy to me and gave me a very rare book.
            
               Colnl. [Simpson] Torbert died 20th February 1838 was buried at
                    Harrison. He was succeeded by Solomon Holeman, as Resident
                    Engineer—this Holeman was a good natured soul not probably over 35 but looked 55. He was
                    small thin man all skin and bone, suffered terribly with Dispepsia— kept himself alive he
                    said with rubing with a hard brush. He was afterwards [a] member of Congress.
            
               Martin Coryell was probably 25 years of age. Brother of Col Torberts
                    Sister—was born and lived at New Hope 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , his Father was Lewis S Coryell and with the Hon S D Ingham of Bucks Co ruled the
                    Democratic party in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    
                    east of the Mountains. Coryell was a jolly old fashioned young man making quaint,
                    quick remarks, in contrast or furtherance of Conversation—ever ready for fun when not
                    interfering with business—great hand with Ladies, visiting constantly, especially took
                    hand in all jolification with them, and if they failed to suggest, he had the faculty of doing so.
                    He did not seem to hitch to any one but had a good time with one and all, if they had any good time
                    in them. He managed to not marry until [blank space] and by referenc to his letter dated [blank
                    space] 18……it will be seen when & how.13 He
                    returned from Indiana some months after the death of Col Torbert with his sister. Subsequently
                    entered the Engineering service of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    —several years after engaged elsewhere—took up his residence
                    permanently at Wilkes barre—for a number of years passed, [he] has been attending the
                    Annual Meetings of the Society of Civil Engineers. Has several times within last ten years called at
                        
                  
                     13 No letter relating to Coryell's marriage was located in
                            Gest's papers.
               
                    
                    
                        Cincinnati
                     having preserved his friendly feelings for my parents and Sister and myself. Still
                    alive 188 [3].
            
               Clement Dare—was originally a journeyman coach maker, self made and self
                    edjucated. He studied Engineer while a journeyman—got his first practical service on
                    White Water Canal, [he] had the charge of the Laurenceburg end. He became quite expert as a
                    mathematican in its exact form, and fond of discovering mathematical formulas to shorten or make
                    exact calculations of irregular figures. He was terribly slow—utterly impossible for him
                    to approximate at any thing, must be exact, would spend any amount of time and undergo great
                    personal discomfort to get things right, when there was no necessity for exactness. This extreme
                    care allmost destroyed [h]is practical value as an Enginer. In fact he was out of place except when
                    mathematical exactness, Instrumented accuracy and closest personal attention were necessary. The
                    result was his life was fritterd away on things not requiring his skill. His integrity was equal to
                    his accuracy. He accumulated sufficient to purchase a good Farm near 
                        Oxford
                        Ohio
                    , to which he retired and lived to be quite an old man.
            
               TSR Noel—Had been raised a journeyman printer— took to
                    enginerng probably at 35—really knew nothing about it and too lazy to learn—he
                    soon after disappeared, at least I never heard of him.
            
               Myron S Webb, had some abilities, but lazy and vain, weakness for a Lady but either
                    afraid or did not know how to go about her—disappeared.
            
               Thomas Wardell—Dont know what became of him.
            
               John Farquer—a [illegible] could come at a fellow, as meekly and
                    obsequously as any one. He knew enough about Enginerg to know he could suceed better in Politics.
                    Subsequently became Member of Congress—but never heard of his seting that august body
                    beside itself. His autograph is on the other side of this page.
                    Dead but not Congress unfortunately.
            
               
                  
                            Granville
                         S Williams—Nephew of Jessie L Williams, subsequently turned
                    attention to Commercial matters, became partnerr in the house of Spragu & Whiteman (Whole
                    sale Grocery) Died in prime of life—rather fond of generous living—never
                    married.
            
            
               Wm B Young—well bred and well meaning young man, generous companionable
                    &c. It was not his fault that he did not succeed—it was not in him, although he
                    tried and desired to be a success. He was one of those creatures of which there are a great many.
                    For some natural deficincy not discoverable, and for no want of effort application desire &c
                    &c, some how remain as they are. He finally disappeared from my knowledge.
            Of the others—I have never heard since.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume IV, 184-8-1852: Including
                        Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough, Dorothy L. Riker, and
                    Paula Corpuz. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1975. Pp. xxix, 566. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            On his fifty-second birthday, February 4, 1850, Calvin Fletcher noted that "This past has
                    been a year of toil yet of pleasure. God has given me wonderful health and good success in
                    business" (p. 167)—an entry that might stand as a summary of the five years
                    included in volume four of his published diary. A record of incessant activity and hard work that
                    was more often than not rewarded with profit, the diary is also an account of the comings and goings
                    of the large, closely knit Fletcher family, of festive occasions, of public duties performed in good
                    conscience by a man of vigorous constitution.
            Born in 
                        Vermont
                     in 1798, Fletcher had lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     since 1821. Earlier volumes of his diary recorded his struggle to establish himself and
                    his family in Indiana's new capital, his experiences as a circuit riding lawyer, the
                    details of his debt collection partnership, the beginnings of his "second" career
                    as banker and large landowner, and the seemingly endless activities of an increasingly prominent
                    citizen.
            By 1848, Fletcher had terminated the collection agency and all but ceased the practice of law. During
                    the next half decade he devoted much of his time to the affairs of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Branch of the State Bank of Indiana, of which he was president. His other great concern
                    was his farms northeast of the city, comprising in all some fourteen hundred acres. Several of his
                    nine sons worked on the farms from time to time and he employed as many as a dozen other hands, but
                    Fletcher occasionally took to the harvest field himself. Claiming his attention, also, were other
                    farms in 
                        Marion
                     and Morgan counties, on which tenants lived, and his large investments in cattle and
                    hogs, some of which he fattened locally and some on the prairie near 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            Fletcher held no public office in these years, yet he was in public life, for he had a well developed
                    sense of his responsibility to the community. He worked particularly hard in the causes of free
                    schools and temperance, often addressing  meetings (which he
                    disliked to do) and serving on governing boards. As had been his custom for many years, he continued
                    to give generously of his time and money to church and Sunday school. The Fletcher home stood
                    hospitably open to the new schoolteacher, the itinerant preacher, the poor relative, and the
                    orphaned child. Twenty persons were as likely to gather around the breakfast table on any morning as
                    around the supper table on Christmas Eve.
            All this is not revealed by the scanning of a few pages of the diary, but the reader who perseveres
                    through the volume will find himself as involved with the Fletchers as with his favorite television
                    family. He will eagerly await news of Cooley, the eldest son, a missionary in 
                        Brazil
                    ; he will follow the younger children to their schools and feel with Calvin, Jr.,
                    Elijah, and Miles as they try to establish their independence; he will keep a watchful eye on the
                    mother's uncertain health and view with amusement and sympathy the father's
                    attempts to improve his irascible disposition; he will suffer with the Fletchers through cholera
                    epidemics and the death of the first grandchild. The historian who reads the diary will be rewarded
                    with new knowledge of banking practices, the midwestern cattle trade, conditions of travel (for the
                    Fletchers were often on the road), and many other aspects of the economy and society a century and a
                    quarter ago. In sum, the Fletcher diary is unrivalled as an account of life in the Midwest during
                    the years that it covers.
            As was the case with earlier volumes, the editors must be commended for their careful work on this
                    one.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Irene D. Neu
         
         
            
               Indiana Coverlet Weavers and Their Coverlets. By Pauline 
                        Montgomery
                    . (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Hoosier Heritage Press, 1974. Pp. vii, 138. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $14.95.)
            "Any book on pioneer crafts must necessarily be written in the subjunctive mood. It is too
                    late by more than a century to make positive assertions concerning some aspects of professional
                    weaving" (p. vi), recognizes Pauline 
                        Montgomery
                     in her volume describing Indiana's professional coverlet weavers and their
                    products. She consequently has not attempted to discuss the technicalities of the weaving process
                         or to make technical analyses of individual coverlets.
                    Neither does she claim a definitive listing of coverlets weavers in the Hoosier state. Included in
                    her book are descriptions and illustrations (in black and white and in color) of various types of
                    coverlets, suggestions as to the acquisition and care of coverlets, pioneer recipes for dyeing yarns
                    and cloth, and a brief background of the development of textile production in Indiana during the
                    pioneer period. The unique aspect of her work—and its major
                    contribution—however, is its emphasis on the individual coverlet weavers. "Many
                    of the weavers have become very real people to me" (p. v), writes 
                        Montgomery
                    ; her well researched, yet fascinating vignettes, make them very real to her readers,
                    too.
            Professional coverlet weaving flourished in Indiana during the midnineteenth century and provided a
                    connecting link between the pioneer home as a self sufficient textile producing unit and the power
                    loom. Thus 
                        Montgomery
                     places her subjects in their historical context. She quotes their prices, includes
                    illustrations of their correspondence and business ledgers, lists their assets, and identifies their
                    weaving trademarks whenever possible, thereby providing an economic and a professional context as
                    well. Within this framework the weavers themselves emerge: Samuel Balantyne, whose Scottish mother
                    thought a successful weaver more respectable than an impoverished actor and whose assets (listed as
                    $3,000) in 1850 vindicated his mother's choice of career for her son; John Muir,
                    married three times to women in "comfortable circumstances," who "by his
                    integrity and honesty… succeeded in obtaining a liberal share of this world's
                    good and at the same time rearing a large family" (p. 79); Indiana's
                    "first family" of weaving, the La Tourettes—John, the father; Henry,
                    his son and Indiana's only native born weaver; and the "incomparable"
                    Sarah, his daughter and the only woman professional weaver in the Hoosier state. Then there are the
                    coverlets they wove—the Whig Rose, King's Flower, Cat Track, 
                        Tennessee
                     Trouble, Frenchman's Fancy.
            Although the footnotes do not always reveal precisely how and where 
                        Montgomery
                     secured all her information, the prodigious amount of research which went into this
                    volume is evident. The author writes with conviction and expertise; not often does one doubt her
                    conclusions. There are things wrong with the book, of course. The chronology and organization  are often confusing. Not until the end of the volume, for
                    example, is there an attempt to explain a few weaving terms which may have confounded the reader
                    throughout the work. And certainly the nonprofessional after reading the book will be no more able
                    to distinguish among a single jaquard, a double jaquard, or an overshot coverlet than he was before.
                    It is undoubtedly unfair to expect to do so, since providing this kind of knowledge was not 
                        Montgomery
                    's intent, but it is frustrating all the same. Whatever the book's few
                    technical problems, however, its contributions to Indiana history in general and to professional
                    weaving in particular are myriad. It is a refreshingly informative and interesting volume.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Lorna Lutes Sylvester
         
         
            
               Oscar Carleton McCulloch, 1843-1891: Preacher and Practitioner of Applied
                        Christianity. By Genevieve C. Weeks. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1976. Pp. xvii, 248. Illustrations, notes, sources, index.
                    $7.50.)
            In this age of impersonal social service bureaucracies it is refreshing to encounter the life of a
                    person whose solitary human efforts made a difference in the quality of life for the poor and
                    underprivileged. Genevieve C. Weeks, a professor in the School of Social Service, Indiana
                    University, has revealed such a person in her loving, thorough, and well documented biography of
                    Oscar McCulloch.
            As minister of the Congregational 
                        Plymouth
                     Church and as president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society from 1877 until his death in 1891, McCullough was the most energetic
                    leader of humanitarian reform in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Whatever the issue—urban poverty, housing and health, the right of labor to
                    organize, strike, and win an eight hour day, kindergartens, child care and fresh air camps, or
                    nurses' training, prison reform, and juvenile justice—McCulloch was in the thick
                    of things. When not delivering a sermon on "Problems of Poor Relief" or
                    "Some Things I Want the Legislature to Attend To" (there were many), the
                    indefatigable minister was out in the city raising funds for his countless projects, organizing the
                    consolidation of charity societies in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ,  and conducting studies to determine the causes of
                    poverty.
            Like other Social Gospel clergymen, McCulloch introduced progressive ideas of science, theology, and
                    social reform to his largely upper middle and upper class congregations, and he assumed that a
                    plethora of paternalistic programs might alone usher in the kingdom of heaven on earth. His efforts
                    represented applied Christianity at its best—and most paternalistic. And here Weeks might
                    have described less and analyzed more. McCulloch sought to attract workingmen and women to his
                    "Open Door" church by offering lecture series, evenings of music and art, and
                    sermons illustrated with slides. He even invited three workers—once—to give
                    sermons. These overtures were genuine, but 
                        Plymouth
                     was hardly a working person's church, nor was McCulloch, as Weeks claims,
                    "a Christian socialist" (p. 155). 
                        Plymouth
                    's programs clearly aimed for the middle class: a literary society, a ladies
                    volunteer charity work group, an institute to provide culture for youth, a book club, and a travel
                    club featuring trips to Europe each winter. To McCulloch's funeral came the directors of
                    the Commercial Club, of which he was a member, the mayor, the governor, and other representatives of
                    the corporate and political elite of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . To be sure, there were letters of sympathy from labor organizations, but also a
                    telegram from President Harrison. The Social Gospel, it seems, was not so antithetical to the Gospel
                    of Wealth.
            Weeks presents McCulloch as a "doer" (p. 81), not given to troubled introspection
                    or ambiguity, and utterly without flaws. Yet there are hints in his diaries that he was a much more
                    complex and multidimensional person than this rather straightforward biography presents him to be.
                    One example, passed by almost without comment, is a remarkably intense and self questioning reaction
                    to Theodore Parker at a critical juncture in McCulloch's earlier life (p. 43).
                    Nevertheless, Weeks has rescued an influential "preacher and practitioner of applied
                    Christianity" from historical oblivion, one who, a friend said, had done "more
                    real practical good than any other minister in the state of Indiana" (p. 163).
            
                    
                  
                            Wabash
                         College, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        
               
                
            Peter Frederick
         
         
         
            
               Diplomacy on the Indiana-
                            Ohio
                         Frontier, 1783-1791. By Joyce G. Williams and Jill E. Farrelly. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Bicentennial Committee, 1976. Pp. ix, 118. Map, notes,
                    illustrations, appendix, bibliography. Limited number of paperbound copies available upon request,
                    $3.00.)
            The territorial provisions of the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     which ended the War for American Independence in 1783 immediately sparked a protracted
                    struggle among the "
                        United States
                    , Great Britain, and various Indian tribes for control over the region known as the Old
                    Northwest. More than an extended essay about this triangular diplomacy during the decade following
                    the Revolutionary War, Diplomacy on the Indiana-
                            Ohio
                         Frontier is also the first chapter of the tragic American saga which ended at
                    Wounded Knee, 
                        South Dakota
                    , in 1890.
            With consummate skill Joyce G. Williams and Jill E. Farrelly outline the stakes of postwar forest
                    diplomacy. The 
                        United States
                     wanted to neutralize and remove the Indians to facilitate settlement of the
                    trans-Appalachian territory. Great Britain wanted to maintain good relations with its wartime allies
                    in order to profit from the fur trade as well as to bolster British hegemony in the Great Lakes
                    region. The Indians, caught in the middle, wanted to retain both tribal independence and ancestral
                    homelands. The outcome was never really in doubt. Neither the British nor the Indians, separately or
                    in concert, could match the political power and military might of the Americans. When efforts of the 
                        United States
                     to acquire aboriginal lands peacefully through purchase met militant resistance from
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    - 
                        Ohio
                     tribes, the action moved from the negotiating table to the battlefield. By 1791 the
                    frontier skirmishes that first flared in 1786 had erupted into open warfare, the first salvo in what
                    was to be a century long battle between Americans white and red for empire.
            This monographic miniature is a welcome addition to the literature of the Revolutionary era in
                    general and Indian- white relations in particular. The book is firmly based upon thorough research
                    in relevant British and American sources; the ninety pages of text are buttressed by 272
                    consecutively numbered footnotes, many of which are explanatory in nature. If historians will find
                    few surprises here, they will rejoice that Williams and Farrelly have fashioned the first
                    comprehensive,  integrated study of 
                        Ohio
                     country diplomacy. The accounts of the major treaties—Ft. Stanwix (1784),
                    Ft. Mclntosh (1785), Ft. Finney (1786), and Ft. Harmar (1789) —are models of clarity. The
                    book also contains sensitive and revealing sketches of such Indian leaders as Joseph Brant (Mohawk),
                    Cornplanter (Seneca), and Little Turtle (
                        Miami
                    ). While clearly sympathetic to the plight of the Indians, the authors treat the
                    emotional and controversial subject of Indian-white relations in a dispassionate, judicious manner.
                    In sum, this tightly written and closely argued work will serve as a standard diplomatic history of
                    the Northwest during the Confederation period.
            While there is little to criticize in the substance of the book, there are weaknesses in format and
                    presentation. The authors do not provide sufficient background or perspective; there is neither a
                    discussion of the wartime diplomacy so essential to a just appreciation of postwar developments nor
                    an attempt in the cursory "Epilogue" to relate the diplomacy of the 1780s to the
                    larger course of relations between the 
                        United States
                     and Indians in the nineteenth century. On occasion the flow of the narrative is
                    disrupted because the eight chapters are arbitrary divisions of the text rather than unified topical
                    subdivisions. The work is marred by careless editing; inconsistencies abound, especially in the
                    footnotes. Finally, a personal complaint: the illustrations are attractive, but the sketch
                    "Indian Ambush along the Ohio River" (p. 78) is an
                    unnecessary and tasteless portrayal of the ignoble savage stereotype.
            Such criticism aside, the book can only be judged a success. The authors deserve congratulations for
                    a job well done; the Indiana University Bicentennial Committee deserves commendation for sponsoring
                    a work of substantive scholarship as an enduring commemoration of the Bicentennial.
            
                    University of 
                     Utah, Salt Lake City
                  
               
                
            Larry R. Gerlach
         
         
            
               Britain and the American Frontier, 1783-1815. By J. Leitch Wright, Jr. (
                        Athens
                    : The University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xii, 251. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $9.50.)
            As the 
                        United States
                     begins its third century, it is worth recalling how many people believed that the new
                    republic would not survive its youth. J. Leitch Wright's new  book makes vividly clear the expectations of British policymakers,
                    former Loyalists, Canadian officials, Indian leaders, and even some frontier Americans, that the 
                        United States
                     was a sport of nature whose existence would be painful and short.
            If most Americans viewed frontier problems in terms of how far and how fast they could expand against
                    Indian resistance and foreign machination, the British (in both North America and 
                        England
                    ) and the Indians saw things differently. Their questions always was: how could they
                    hasten, and benefit from, the inevitable disintegration of the 
                        United States
                    ?
            This is not the full study of British frontier policy which the title suggests, but rather a tale of
                    the influence which old Tories, Canadian officials, Indian traders, and the Indians themselves
                    had—or hoped to have—on British policy. Indian leaders wanted English help in
                    holding back the advance of white settlement. Loyalists who had fled to 
                  Canada, Florida
               , and
                    the offshore islands, hoped to regain land and status when the 
                        United States
                     broke up. The Canadian government wanted to protect its underpopulated colony by
                    securing control of the upper 
                        Mississippi
                    , detaching part of New 
                        England
                     or the Northwest from the Union, or at least creating an Indian buffer against the
                    advancing American tide. Each of these groups was perennially optimistic about the impending fall of
                    the 
                        United States
                    : just a little more British pressure, a little more wooing of frontier dissidents,
                    would do the job.
            The British government had no quarrel with any of these aims and it hoped itself to see the new
                    nation collapse. The key goal, as seen from 
                        London
                    , was a unified Mississippi Valley under British control. This
                    would give 
                        Canada
                     a southern water outlet, tie the Indians firmly to Britain, and eventually provide an
                    enormous market for British goods. Yet, while the home government wished to gratify the desires of
                    its adherents in North America, Wright shows that it seldom did so. Other considerations,
                    particularly the valuable American trade and the course of European diplomacy and war, usually
                    outweighed the opinions and advice of British subjects and their Indian friends in America. In the
                    end, Britain did little of consequence on the frontier, except during the actual war with the 
                        United States
                     after 1812.
            The author is quite at home in this period, having written several previous books in the field. His
                    research, heavily  weighted toward British sources, is strong in
                    both public and private manuscript materials and contemporary pamphlets. However, he lists only one
                    secondary work published since 1971 and—in common with too many historians—has
                    barely touched the store of good doctoral dissertations on the period. The book should be definitive
                    on its particular subject— the attempt by North American groups to influence British
                    policy—but not on the general topic of Britain and the American frontier from 1783 to
                    1815.
            
                    Centennial History of the Indiana General Assembly, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
                
            James H. Broussard
         
         
            
               Frontier Musicians on the Connoquenessing, 
                            Wabash
                        , and 
                            Ohio
                        : A History of the Music and Musicians of George Rapp's Harmony Society
                        (1805-1906). By Richard D. Wetzel. (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 1976. Pp. xi, 294. Notes, illustrations, appendixes, bibliography,
                    index, sound sheet. $16.00.)
            In the preface, Richard D. Wetzel states that his purpose has been to provide a comprehensive account
                    of the musical life of George Rapp's Harmony Society. The basic material for the text is
                    provided by the "descriptions of the Society's vocal and instrumental ensembles,
                    their repertoires and performance practices" (p. ix), but Wetzel admits "it is the
                    people themselves who emerge as the predominant subject" (p. ix).
            After sketching the general history of the society, the musical activities in the periods 1805-1825,
                    1825-1832, 1832-1892, and 1892-1906 are covered. In addition the volume carefully documents the
                    sources and the development of the Harmony Society's unique hymn repertoire and sketches
                    John Duss' colorful life and concert band career. Frequent footnotes and quotations support
                    the flowing writing style. Although Wetzel occasionally quotes from the original German text he
                    usually provides passages in English. Twenty-four illustrations are included, but a few, especially
                    those of badly worn manuscripts, are poorly reproduced.
            Wetzel complements his more general musical history of the Harmonist Society by four useful
                    appendixes. The first reproduces twenty-two musical examples from the various periods as
                    illustrations to the text. This generous compilation,  however,
                    does pose some problems for the reader. Examples are referred to by number in the text but by title
                    and author in the appendix. Manuscript sources for the examples are not identified; and
                    unfortunately, only six examples are complete. This is understandable in the case of the lengthy
                    odes or the symphony, but disappointing in the case of Mueller's short hymns, of which only
                    the third is fully given. These hymns contain slight editorial emendations not identified to the
                    reader in the transcriptions, though all the pitches correspond to those shown in the manuscript.
                    Minor but numerous typographical errors also mar the examples.
            The second appendix gives melodic incipits for the pieces in Dr. Mueller's violin book. The
                    third appendix assembles the tunes from the 1820 and the 1827 hymnals, and the fourth provides a
                    detailed, annotated catalog of the over eight hundred items in the music collection of Economy
                    Village. While minor oversights appear in this last appendix its careful scholarship will greatly
                    aid future studies of the village's collection.
            
               Frontier Musicians is a welcomed addition to the growing body of literature about
                    the Harmony Society. Wetzel's book provides informative and enjoyable reading for the
                    layman while serving the more specialized interest of the scholar.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Claude K. Sluder
         
         
            
               An 
                            Ohio
                         Portrait. By George W. Knepper. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, for 
                        Ohio
                     American Revolution Bicentennial Advisory Commission, 1976. Pp. 282. Illustrations,
                    maps, index. $20.00.)
            
               An 
                            Ohio
                         Portrait was produced as part of that state's celebration of the
                    bicentennial of the American Revolution. Upon seeing the title, this reviewer assumed the book was a
                    pictoral history. It is not. It is studded with photographs and illustrations. But the author does
                    not make statements pic- torially; he chose pictures, apparently, to amplify, in some unstated
                    manner, verbal remarks in the text. In contrast with a volume like The American
                    Albumn the reader comes away with relatively few visual impressions of change and continuity,
                    or even of what life was like in 
                        Ohio
                     over the  past two centuries. Pictures of
                    individuals mentioned in the text abound; other sorts of images are not arranged as parts of
                    pictoral essays.
            The book is a word portrait with illustrations. Its coverage is broad, ranging from pre-Columbian
                    times to the present. The emphasis is on succinct description and a brief mention of as many
                    subjects as possible; the goal is to provide information pleasantly. The author succeeds in this
                    purpose, yet the book ultimately is a failure. It is too brief to serve as an adequate reference
                    volume, and follows too conventional a narrative tradition in historiography to provide the reader
                    with themes or interpretations with which to gain much insight into his or her life. Surely
                    professional historians and their sponsoring agencies have an obligation to bring the best of the
                    new social history to bear on their efforts, especially those intended for a lay audience.
            Not that the book is a disaster, even in these terms. Clevelanders, for instance, can gain a general
                    understanding of how their city came to be in the modern sense. And all Ohioans will learn a little
                    about many famous persons who led the state's political life or gained popular attention if
                    only for a fleeting moment. But they will not learn much about changing patterns of social
                    organization and their attendant value systems. And the author is prone to boosterism in his account
                    of contemporary affairs.
            In summary, this book is a lavish but disappointing effort. It suffers from an unclear purpose and
                    inadequate consideration for the communicative value of visual images.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
               
                
            K. Austin Kerr
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
               . Volume XXVIII, The Territory of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1839-1848. Composed and edited by John Porter Bloom. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1975. Pp. viii, 1321. Notes, illustration, maps, index.
                    $20.10.)
            Covering the closing years of the territorial stage for 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1839-1848, this large volume follows lines well established by Editor Bloom. Texts of
                    documents are accompanied by a variety of explanatory notes and cross references. The index is
                    substantial and comprehensive. These laborious items appear to have been painstakingly performed.
                         Hence, it seems harsh to suggest that such volumes would be
                    considerably more useful if accompanied by some excellent maps and if the reader were given further
                    modest aid in identifying persons associated with the documents.
            It is not surprising to find that the volume at hand gives much attention to a wide range of topics,
                    including Indiana relations, public lands, internal improvements, territorial politics, federal
                    politics, and the movement toward statehood. In contrast to earlier volumes regarding the Indiana
                    and 
                        Illinois
                     territories, for instance, one is struck by the attention here to party politics and
                    maneuvering for party advantage and patronage. Nonetheless, though the development of organized and
                    rival political parties affected politics within 
                        Wisconsin
                     in these and other ways, the territorial system and process by which 
                        Wisconsin
                     became a state remained basically the same as for earlier states carved from the
                        Mississippi Valley.
            This volume, like the twenty-seven in the series which have preceded it, is a storehouse of
                    significant information. Though neither easy or exciting reading, the book provides invaluable
                    background history of the numerous "admitted" states of the Union. Equally it
                    traces the manner in which an uncertain union of thirteen Atlantic seaboard states expanded westward
                    across a vast and heterogeneous continent and became stronger as it did so.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Wheat Flour Messiah: Eric Jansson of Bishop Hill
               . By Paul
                    Elmen. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, for the Swedish Pioneer Historical Society, 1976. Pp. xv, 222. Notes,
                    illustrations, selected bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            Eric Jansson did not have a very long career as a religious leader; it lasted only from 1843, the
                    date of his first visit to H$aUlsingland, 
                        Sweden
                    , until his murder by a former follower in 
                  Henry
                        County, Illinois
               , in 1850. But in
                    those seven years he created quite a stir. Jansson experienced a dramatic religious conversion in
                    1830 at the age of twenty-two, but he did not attract many followers until 1843, when he left his
                    own province on a business trip to sell flour and began to preach in Halsingland. His message
                    contained a Methodist  like perfectionism and biblicism, but it
                    was combined with a messianic belief that his work would outdo Christ's. The state church
                    of 
                        Sweden
                     noticed with alarm Jannsonism's anti-Lutheran, separatist appeal and responded
                    by harassing the sect with increasing ferocity from 1844, when Jansson and his followers burned
                    books by Luther and Arndt, to 1846, when Jannsonists emigrated to America. Eric Jansson spent the
                    winter of 1845-1846 as an outlaw, furtively exhorting his followers to journey to America.
                    Approximately 1200 of them eventually pooled their resources to establish Bishop
                    Hill in 
                        Illinois
                    . There they lived communally until 1862, withstanding a plague of cholera that killed
                    more than 200 of them in 1849, Jansson's murder by an outraged husband whose wife refused
                    to leave the community in 1850, and the depression of 1857. In 1862, after prosperity had obviated
                    the need for communalism and dissension had broken the group into factions, the property was divided
                    for the last time, and former Janssonists went their individual ways.
            Paul Elmen, a professor of moral theology at Seabury- Western Theological Seminary in
                            
                  Evanston, Illinois
               , was primarily interested in the religious significance of
                    the Janssonist movement, and his sophisticated discussion of Janssonism's place in the
                    history of religious ideas may prove somewhat opaque to historians not fluently versed in
                    theological concepts. Since Elmen views Janssonism as "the lengthened shadow of an
                    extraordinary man" (p. 174), his interpretation depends upon successfully conveying the
                    character of Eric Jansson. Unfortunately, although Jansson's faults appear in great
                    profusion (he was arrogant, probably lascivious, shallow, and ignorant), the qualities which
                    attracted thousands of supporters in 
                        Sweden
                     and inspired more than a thousand people to brave danger and hardship in following him
                    to America rarely appear in this biography. In an understatement. Elmen acknowledges that
                    "Eric Jansson's power must remain something of an enigma to us" (p. 177).
                    But Elmen's failure to evoke Jansson's charisma should not be attributed to a want
                    of literary vivacity, since the author employs a vivid style: "Time seemed transfixed at
                        Bishop Hill, like a fly trapped in a cake of amber" (p. xiii). The
                    problem is that when Jansson speaks for himself, the result is not impressive.
            
            The author has used Swedish sources extensively and appears to have a detailed grasp of his
                    materials. However, the book suffers from a maddening confusion in chronology. Elmen often fails to
                    date his accounts of events and further confuses the reader by inserting dated references to earlier
                    and later events in order to amplify the obscure "present" of his narrative (e.g.,
                    chapter two). The bibliography is extensive and the index reliable.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            Lana Ruegamer Tam
         
         
            
               The Indian Legacy of Charles Bird King. By Herman J. Viola. (
                        Washington
                    : Smithsonian Institution Press and Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1976. Pp. 152.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $19.95.)
            
               
                        Rhode Island
                     born Charles Bird King studied under Benjamin West in 
                        England
                     before settling in the District of 
                        Columbia
                     after the War of 1812. A successful portrait painter, King met Thomas McKenney,
                    superintendent of Indian trade and later head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. McKenney had already
                    begun "The Archives of the American Indian," a collection of Indian artifacts, and
                    decided to employ King to add portraits to his archives. In 1822 McKenney commissioned King to
                    portray Pawnee, Oto, 
                        Omaha
                    , and other delegates who were in 
                        Washington
                     at government request.
            In the next twenty years King did portraits of at least 143 Indian leaders who visited the capital
                    and often did replicas for himself and for his subjects. Included were such notable figures
                    Petalesharro of the Pawnees, Keokuk and Black Hawk of the Sac and Fox, and Red Jacket of the
                    Senecas. King also did portraits of Tenskwautawawa (the Prophet), the brother of Tecumseh, from the
                    work of other artists. King's Indian portraits constituted an important and impressive
                    collection in precamera days and were an important attraction for whites and for visiting Indians.
                    The collection was decimated by fire in 1865 after having been moved from the war department to the
                    Smithsonian Institution, but fortunately King had done replicas of many of the portraits and others
                    had appeared in Thomas McKenney's and James Hall's three volume History of the Indian Tribes of North America (1836-1844).
            
            Herman Viola, director of the American Anthropological Archives in the Smithsonian Institution, has
                    located some sixty King portraits and a number of charcoal sketches and has presented them in an
                    attractive, large format book. His text briefly describes King's background and recounts
                    McKenney's work with the Indian office, the development of his archive and relations with
                    King, information on the Indian delegations, and the events leading to the McKenney- Hall classic.
                    Much of this story has been told before by Viola, especially in his biography of McKenney, and while
                    there is perhaps less information on King than many readers might wish, this volume does focus
                    necessary attention on the work of Charles Bird King.
            
                    University of New 
                            Mexico
                        , Albuquerque
                
            Richard N. Ellis
         
         
            
               Journey to the Green and Golden Lands: The Epic of Survival on the Wagon Trail.
                    By Raymond N. Doetsch. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1976. Pp. 112. Notes, illustrations, references, index.
                    $9.95.)
            Sprightly in style and brisk in pace, this succinct volume focuses on struggles for survival on the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     wagon trails during the 1840s. Raymond N. Doetsch sheds light on crushing illnesses,
                    daily aches and discomforts, and other misfortunes confronting those trekking west. He also stresses
                    the ideas, however zany, of travelers, physicians, and quacks concerning causes and treatments of
                    maladies. Noting that perhaps one in seventeen died en route, Doetsch highlights some ugly
                    relationships between diet, dirt, disease, and death, portraying the westward trek as no pleasure
                    jaunt, no summer lark, and certainly nothing to be approached lightly. Although physical infirmities
                    receive much attention, gnawing anxieties and psychological wear and tear also are considered, as
                    are other factors affecting survival: equipment and supplies; social organization and social
                    dynamics; leadership; useful knowledge and treacherous misinformation; geographical conditions; and
                    questions of morality, including wrenching decisions to abandon disabled members.
            Drawing heavily from manuscripts and diaries, the book brims with dozens of sparkling quotations
                    concerning misfortune and attempts to overcome it. Other strengths include candid references to
                    evidence, including admissions of limitations,  coherent
                    organization of thought, numerous references to women's roles, keen knowledge of medical
                    developments, and surging empathy for those stumbling into grief.
            Some weaknesses occur, however: a mediocre index, numerous unsupported assertions, several
                    undocumented quotations, and a minor error or two. Despite these flaws, the book succeeds in its
                    purpose, giving to the general reader clear and vibrant accounts of hardships lurking along the
                    trail to the green and golden lands. The historian, too, will find much that is useful.
            
                    
                  
                            Illinois
                         College, 
                            Jacksonville
                        
               
                
            James E. Davis
         
         
            
               A Southern Odyssey: Travelers in the Antebellum North. By John Hope Franklin. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1976. Pp. xvii, 299. Notes, illustrations, note on sources,
                    index. $12.50.)
            Historians have long read and quoted the many northern travelers to the South, and Thomas D.
                    Clark's bibliography of original travel accounts, Travelers in the Old
                    South (3 vols., 1956-1960), attests to the interest scholars have shown in such literature.
                    More recently Eugene L. Schwaab has edited a handsome two volume collection, Travelers
                        in the Old South: Selected from Periodicals of the Times. Yet one would hardly guess, from
                    reading the steady flow of monographs on different aspects of the antebellum period, that many more
                    southerners went North and recorded their impressions than did northerners visit the South. It is
                    this rich and neglected body of writing—in book form, periodicals, newspapers, and
                    manuscripts—that John Hope Franklin discusses in A Southern Odyssey.
            There are usually several ways to approach a subject, and 
                        Franklin
                     uses a straightforward, descriptive format. Beginning with a colorful account of how
                    numerous upper class southerners toured the North in style, visiting the fashionable resorts,
                    staying in the "right" hotels, and soaking up as much "culture"
                    as they could, he depicts the sojourners on a provincial version of the Grand Tour. Despite their
                    vaunted pride in all things pertaining to Dixie, southerners were strangely drawn northward. While
                    they insistently persisted in expressing their love for their own region, their itineraries showed a
                    recognition that the North possessed many virtues too, virtues which quite often made the South seem
                    wanting  by comparison. Thus a profound love-hate attraction
                    drew southerners northward at the same time that northern attitudes and institutions sometimes
                    shocked and infuriated them.
            Largely letting his material speak for itself, 
                        Franklin
                     carefully portrays those sons of the South who sought their education in the North; he
                    details the economic ties that bound the sections, showing how southerners were wedded to northern
                    products, fashions, and credit; he reveals the attitudes of southerners to northern racial
                    mores—and the supposed lessons they drew from their experiences; he includes southern
                    criticisms of the rival North and devotes a chapter to southern defenders speaking in the North on
                    behalf of the southern cause. And as his final chapter reveals, all this interregional travel did
                    not lessen tensions. Southerners on the whole saw what they wanted to see and came to believe even
                    more strongly that the North was an alien land and culture. Separation came to seem almost
                    inevitable; and in a subtle, or perhaps vague, way, travel by southerners in the North contributed
                    to the approaching conflict.
            
               
                        Franklin
                     has collected and synthesized a large body of information, presented it clearly, and
                    provided a useful bibliographical essay. Certainly many will find his account most helpful as they
                    develop their own interpretations of the era. Moreover, the volume is attractively designed and
                    printed, and contains twenty illustrations grouped as "An Album of Southern
                    Travel." An expanded version of the 1972 Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern
                    History at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University, the book won the Jules F. Landry Award for 1975.
            
                    Towson State University, 
                            Baltimore
                        
               
                
            John B. Boles
         
         
            
               History of Public Works in the 
                            United States
                        , 1776-1976. Edited by Ellis L. Armstrong; associate editors, Michael C.
                    Robinson, and Suellen M. Hoy. (
                        Chicago
                    : American Public Works Association, 1976. Pp. xv, 736. Illustrations, tables, figures,
                    maps, suggested readings, index. $20.00.)
            This interesting volume is a product of the historical interest generated by the nation's
                    bicentennial. In anticipation of the event the American Public Works Association established a
                    special bicentennial commission to supervise  the preparation of
                    a comprehensive history of public works in the 
                        United States
                     since the American Revolution. Ellis Armstrong, the editor of this work, is a
                    professional engineer who also served as 
                        United States
                     commissioner of public roads and commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation. In this
                    project he directed a staff of young professional historians who prepared individual chapters for
                    the book. In every sense, then, this is a team effort.
            The major purpose of this volume is to provide a survey of the history of public works in the 
                        United States
                    . Its sponsors felt that most professional historians have neglected this aspect of
                    American history, and it was their hope that the book would stimulate further historical research in
                    the field. Moreover, they expected that the project would also be of interest to government
                    officials, engineers, and administrators engaged in public works. Consequently, this was not
                    designed to be a scholarly study as much as a broad survey with wide appeal to a diverse audience.
            In an encyclopedic vein the twenty essays in this work cover a broad spectrum of public works
                    projects. These range from roads, highways, waterways, and airports to flood control projects,
                    irrigation, sewers, and light and power. Military installations, parks and recreation, as well as
                    public housing also receive particular attention. Most of the chapters tend to be descriptive rather
                    than analytical, factual rather than interpretative. Although the essays do not contain footnotes,
                    each is followed by a helpful bibliography and list of references. Well chosen photographs and
                    illustrations enhance the interest of the text. The usefulness of the volume is increased by a
                    careful and detailed index.
            As might be expected, the book has some of the strengths and weaknesses often found in collaborative
                    enterprises. Its comprehensiveness can only be admired as well as the effort of the editors to make
                    it a depository of interesting facts. On the other hand, the dearth of fresh and original insights
                    classifies it more as a work of reference. Understandably the quality of the chapters is uneven.
                    Some are based largely on materials provided by concerned federal agencies and retain the style,
                    tone, and format of formal government reports. Others were composed by the young historians working
                    on the project, Michael C. Robinson and Suellen M. Hoy, and are written in a somewhat livelier and
                    more stimulating fashion.
            
            On balance, historians will welcome this book. Although specialists will find little new in its
                    pages, it provides a most convenient and reliable reference for those not well acquainted with the
                    history of public works. To have brought together in one volume many scattered materials relating to
                    the history of public works in the 
                        United States
                     is a distinct contribution. And the book may stimulate further interest and research in
                    the field and so fulfill one of the prime aims of its sponsors.
            
                    University of New 
                            Mexico
                        , Albuquerque
                
            Gerald D. Nash
         
         
            
               From Poor Law to Welfare State: A History of Social Welfare in America. By
                    Walter I. Trattner. (
                        New York
                    : The Free Press, 1974. Pp. xii, 276. Notes, bibliographies, index. $3.95.)
            Social welfare programs have been a dominant political issue for most of this century. The lack of a
                    comprehensive history of American welfare has been regrettable. Recent monographs by Robert Bremner,
                    Roy Lubove, David Roth- man, Gerold Grob, and Clarke Chambers have considered various areas but not
                    the larger field. Now Walter I. Trattner's interpretive history, From Poor Law
                        to Welfare State, examines social weliare irom its colonial origins to the modern era.
                    While Trattner chose to write neither a comprehensive nor a definitive account, he nevertheless
                    presents a readable synthesis of the expanding literature, suitable for both scholar and layperson.
            The organization is superb, given the diverse topics involved in social welfare. Trattner
                    deliberately excludes serious discussion of such areas as corrections, overseas American social
                    welfare, or programs for the physically handicapped. He does cover the more familiar areas: child
                    welfare, social security, mental health, public health, the settlement house, and the
                    professionalization of social work. The chapters meld well. The author is particularly adept at
                    tracing the evolution of American attitudes toward welfare. First, the English Poor Law of 1601
                    advanced the individual's right to relief and his lack of personal responsibility for
                    misfortune. Then, during the nineteenth century, two beliefs, that poverty was the
                    individual's fault and that private  charity was
                    preferable to public programs, reflected the period's premium on unfettered economic
                    competition. Finally, "scientific charities" and settlement houses revealed the
                    more recent tendency to examine environmental factors as the cause of poverty. Trattner believes
                    that the New Deal marked the full acceptance of the right to public assistance. Poverty
                    "was no longer regarded as a question of personal weakness" (p. 242).
            It is true that relief has become a permanent federal expenditure. However, Trattner neglects ongoing
                    opposition to welfare. His treatment of the post-New Deal era is skimpy and sparse. Trattner does
                    reveal a general understanding of broad trends in American and seventeenth century British history
                    and their impact on social welfare. However, he hardly mentions the development of social welfare
                    programs in Europe in the latter nineteenth and twentieth centuries, and does not explore regional
                    differences within the 
                        United States
                    . His work is a valuable invitation to further research.
            Trattner clearly identifies his bias in favor of public welfare; for example, an exclamation point is
                    used in discussing Hoover's stand on direct public relief in 1930 and 1931. This book is
                    based on the author's class lectures, and it shows it. In the preface, he denounces
                    footnotes as impractical, an injustice to his years of reflection on the subject. This imposes a
                    burden on readers and reviewers. It hampers future research; it demands acts of faith instead of
                    traditional critical appraisal. Such statements as "Or, as an equally perceptive person put
                    it…" (p. 220) leave the reader perplexed. The bibliographies at the end of each
                    chapter offer some compensation. Despite these shortcomings, the book is a welcome contribution to
                    the study of social welfare.
            
               University of 
                            New Haven
                        
               , West Haven, 
                        Connecticut
                    
            
            Joseph B. Chepaitis
         
         
            
               Indian-White Relations: A Persistent Paradox. Edited by Jane F. Smith and Robert
                    M. Kvasnicka. (
                        Washington
                    : Howard University Press, 1976. Pp. xx, 278. Notes, illustrations, maps, appendix,
                    index. $15.00.)
            This volume contains a collection of edited papers and commentaries presented June 15-16, 1972, at
                    the National Archives conference on research in the history of Indian-white  relations. The tenth in a series of semiannual conferences sponsored by
                    the National Archives and Records Service, it was designed to focus attention on the research
                    potential of materials in the National Archives, to provide federal archivists with guidance and
                    counsel on how best to meet the research requirements of scholars, and to foster improved
                    communications and a continuing dialogue between archivists and the scholarly community.
            The papers and commentaries focus on the topics of the major resources of the National Archives,
                    Indian assimilation in the nineteenth century, Indian collections outside the National Archives, the
                    role of the military, recent research on Indian reservation policy, and aspects of twentieth century
                    federal Indian policy. In many instances an edited book presenting the views of a group of scholars
                    does not read well and is uneven in the quality of scholarship. This is not the case in Indian-White Relations. All the papers are of high quality, reflecting the good
                    scholarship of the contributors.
            The reader will not always agree with the conclusions reached, especially in the commentaries. It is
                    difficult to concur with Louis Bruce that "Indian self-determination is going to be a
                    complete reality not too far ahead of today, and when it is, one of the incomplete chapters of
                    American history will then have been completed" (p. 250). D'Arcy McNickle states
                    that "John Collier was whipped in this area [policy] because one man in the Senate
                    committee, the staff clerk, was bitterly opposed to him. Collier had refused to name this man as
                    chief counsel of the bureau at the beginning of his administration. Collier was never
                    forgiven" (p. 257). Unfortunately, this strong statement does not have any documentation.
                    Lawrence Kelly contends that "most of the sparse literature on the Indian New Deal creates
                    the impression that Congress broke with the traditional philosophy of assimilation and adopted
                    instead a policy encouraging Indian cultural, political and economic autonomy." Actually,
                    "the seeds of the termination movement which surfaced in the early 1950's were
                    planted in the latter years of the Collier administration" (p. 240). This is an interesting
                    conclusion which deserves serious consideration. W. David Baird was not satisfied with one of the
                    papers, so two-thirds of his commentary was "an extension of Professor [Kenneth R.]
                    Philip's paper rather than a criticism of it" (p. 216). Baird was able  to add some valuable material which contributed to Philip's
                    presentation.
            Although these scholars did not always agree, in most instances their criticism was constructive and
                    contributed to the success of the conference. This book is an important contribution to
                    understanding the present state of scholarship regarding the history of the native American.
            
                    
                  
                            Missouri
                         Southern State College, Joplin
                
            Robert E. Smith
         
         
            
               Sectionalism, Politics and American Diplomacy. By Edward W. Chester. (
                        Metuchen
                    , N.J.: The Scarecrow Press, Inc., 1975. Pp. xiii, 348. Bibliography, indexes.
                    $12.50.)
            This is a disappointing book. Purporting to be the first scholarly synthesis of primary and secondary
                    literature bearing on the effects of sectionalism and politics on American diplomacy from the
                    Revolutionary era to the 
                        Vietnam
                     War, it instead is a simplistic, almost kaleidoscopic review of numerous well known
                    events in American diplomatic history (without footnotes and other scholarly paraphernalia) which is
                    basically textbookish in scope and quality. Edward W. Chester argues that "Perhaps the most
                    important generalization that might be made on the basis of this data is that one-party domination
                    of a section often leads to sustained bloc-voting on diplomatic questions in Congress" (pp.
                    iv-v). In this sense, he says, "Southern Democratic bloc voting" appeared years
                    before the presidency of Woodrow Wilson (p. v). Probably the most significant development since
                    World War II, 
                        Chester
                     claims, is the decline in "southern internationalism" (p. 230), which
                    he attributes primarily to that section's racism and to its change to industrialism and
                    resultant call for tariff restrictions. 
                        Chester
                     declares that in addition to his roll call analysis, "supplementary data
                    reveals that such factors as economics, race, ethnicity, and metro- politanism vs. ruralism have
                    played a major role in the shaping of American foreign policy" (p. v). Unfortunately, he
                    does not substantiate the above assertions with either convincing evidence or sound reasoning.
            Primarily the author fails to analyze the importance of the events to American diplomacy. Though
                    showing over and over that the sections split over issues, he does not explain adequately why they
                    did so. Nor does he discuss whether their shifting stands constituted real sectional alignments  or just coincidental, temporary agreements on policy. It is not
                    sufficient, for example, to label the South's motives as predominantly
                    "racist" (pp. 44, 232, 242-43, 279-82); not only did other elements affect its
                    behavior, but countless scholarly studies have shown American racism to have no geographical
                    boundaries. It also is questionable whether one can draw valid conclusions about the role of
                    economic factors in American diplomacy merely by summarizing an issue, listing the public figures
                    involved, and stating that economic gains resulted from such policy. In another instance, the author
                    casually observes that the South was pro-Russian in the midnineteenth century partly because of
                    "certain valid parallels between Russian serfdom and southern slavery" (p. 100).
                    In another simplistic connection, he writes that several American newspapers carried the full text
                    of one of Hitler's speeches before the Reichstag in 1939, "thus negating the
                    theory that there was a correlation between isolationism and ignorance" (p. 209). And in
                    perhaps the lightest statement made, 
                        Chester
                     declares that "The South,… despite the severe economic dislocation
                    it suffered because of [the Embargo Act of 1807], failed to turn to manufacturing, a development
                    which, had it occurred, might have acted as a deterrent to slavery and helped therefore to prevent
                    the Civil War" (p. 23). The text abounds with unexplained and undefended statements such as
                    the above.
            Perhaps the author could have put together a noteworthy book—if he had offered more
                    analysis and less summary; if he had attempted to tie events together instead of merely allowing
                    them to follow one another because they conveniently did so in time span; if he had shown more of
                    the interrelationship between domestic and foreign policy; and if he had relied upon more primary
                    materials than Congressional records, newspaper editorials, and opinion polls. In fact, several
                    standard secondary works do not appear in his bibliography. 
                        Chester
                     laments that "there is not a single monograph in print which comprehensively
                    measures these sectional and political trends" (p. iv). Yet instead of offering some
                    hypotheses about why these trends developed, he concludes that his book "stops at charting
                    prominent trends rather than attempting to formulate some universal law" (p. 285). This
                    shallow overview of familiar facts adds little to any in depth understanding of American diplomatic
                    history.
            
                    University of 
                            Alabama
                        , University
                
            Howard Jones
         
         
         
            
               First Majority-Last Minority: The Transforming of Rural Life in America. By John
                    L. Shover. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1976. Pp. xix, 338. Tables, illustrations, notes, figures, appendix,
                    bibliographical note, index. Clothbound, $12.50; paperbound, $5.00.)
            That rural America and its agricultural base during the twentieth century has been swept along by
                    technological and other forces and that the change since World War II has been mind boggling forms
                    the central theme of John L. Stover's study. Since 1940, tractors—the harbinger
                    of the revolution that led to modern agribusiness—hybrid grains, upbreeding of stock,
                    herbicides and insecticides, and corporate conglomerates so increased productivity and the costs of
                    farming that marginal farmers could not survive. The impact of these developments was so intense and
                    rapid that many operators working farms considered viable before World War II faced marginality by
                    1960. Farm productivity per man hour quadrupled after 1948 compared with a doubling of productivity
                    in nonfarm sectors. This, in addition to federal intervention and the organizational invasion of
                    corporate farming, led to the departure of thirty million Americans from farms between 1929 and
                    1965, representing a migration "greater in scope and numbers than the great exodus of
                    Europeans and Asians to the 
                        United States
                     in the 140 years from 1820 to 1960" (p. 4).
            Shover divides his finely written work into two sections. In the first he utilizes a case study
                    approach—including historical sketches of Scioto Township, 
                  Delaware County, Ohio
               , and 
                  Bedford County, Pennsylvania
               , and the skillful use of farm
                    reminiscences by Curtis Stadtfeld and Dr. Henry C. Taylor—to accentuate the irresistible
                    forces pressing against rural communities. In the second section, beginning with chapter five, the
                    book studies the external structure within which farmers have operated since World War II.
            "From Community to Society," the title of chapter four, expresses the theme evoked
                    in the first part of the book. But the presentation fails to substantiate the loss of community
                    allegedly experienced in either Ostrander, 
                        Ohio
                    , or in places in 
                        Bedford County
                     such as Breezewood. The narrative clearly demonstrates that the subject communities
                    have become quite different than they were—Ostrander lost its functions as a  farm service center during the 1920s and Breezewood, an exit on the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Turnpike, became a traveller service center. But fewer farms and farmers, the influx of
                    a large rural nonfarm population, the impact of autos and highways, and other changes need not have
                    resulted in community decline or the decline of "community." Shover does not
                    provide the reader with an analysis of either how these places served residents in the past or the
                    manner in which the population interacted in community or associational activities. Hundreds of
                    communities in. 
                        Kansas
                     and other plains states continue to service farmers and others as well, and while
                    different today than in 1900, they are no less communities. Any one of these, from Fredonia, 
                        Kansas
                    , to Tecumseh, 
                        Nebraska
                    , would have served better as a laboratory to measure change in rural America than
                            
                  Bedford County, Pennsylvania
               . Shover's choice of communities determined his
                    conclusions.
            In the second part of the book the author discusses technology, agribusiness, the federal role in
                    agriculture, and the world food crisis. These significant topics are thoughtfully treated, but
                    Shover surrenders the earlier vantage point of the rural community. Many midwesterners know that the
                    structural changes discussed by Shover have affected rural Americans. But how? Preoccupied with a
                    concern for the intrusion of oligopolistic corporations in agriculture, anachronistic federal
                    legislation, and the finite productive capabilities of our planet, the author loses sight of rural
                    people. It is interesting to know that Greyhound owns Armour, but what difference does this make to
                    the cattle rancher? Still, chapter seven is one of the best summary statements of some forty years
                    of federal agricultural policy.
            The absence of a table of tables and a poorly conceived index limits the book's usefulness
                    as a reference tool. Entries for the Farm Security Administration are given as pages 231 and 237 but
                    the brief discussion of that agency occurs on page 244. Nor can the reader consult the index for an
                    entry that allows the quick discovery of how many farms existed in any given period.
            
                    University of 
                            Kansas
                        , Lawrence
                
            John G. Clark
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Indiana, Home. By Logan Esarey. Designed and illustrated by Bruce Rogers.
                    Introduction by R. E. Banta. Fourth edition. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1976. Pp. ix, 120. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $10.00; paper- bound, $3.95.) The fourth edition of The Indiana
                        Home makes this classic account of pioneer life available to all with an interest in
                    Indiana's past. Few people knew Indiana as well as Logan Esarey, who learned first hand the
                    ways of a fading pioneer life on a family farm in 
                        Perry County
                    . This collection of essays, published after Esarey's death in 1942, describes
                    that era vividly and authentically to readers now far removed by the processes of modernization.
                    Here one learns the trees of the forest and their uses, from hickory hoop-poles to persimmon
                    pudding, the routes of the pioneers, the work of clearing land and building a cabin. Unparalleled is
                    Esarey's account of farm life in the 1850s— of logrolling and planting corn, of
                    the difference between the wheat harvest and the corn harvest. Pen and ink drawings by Bruce Rogers
                    add a delightful and informative touch to this handsomely done and most welcome edition. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Trades and Professions in the Growth of 
                            South Bend
                         and 
                            St. Joseph County
                        
               . By 
                        St. Joseph County
                     Junior Historical Society Board. (
                        South Bend
                    : Northern Indiana Historical Society, 1976. Pp. 35. Illustrations, notes, bibliography.
                    Pamphlet, $2.00.) This publication surveys the role of various trades and professions in
                    the growth of 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . Separate short essays treat cabinet making, education, farming, fur trading, milling,
                    tailoring, and wagon building. The pamphlet is a commendable effort to study everyday life in
                    Indiana. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The Bicentennial. By Ronald P. Thrush. (
                        Wabash
                    , Ind.: Ronald P. Thrush, 1975. Pp. 59. Maps, illustrations. Booklet, $3.00.)
                    This bicentennial publication focuses on the history of 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Miami
                     counties and especially on the community of Richvalley. Emphasis is on the nineteenth
                    century. Written largely from secondary sources and profusely illustrated, it will be of special
                    interest to residents of the area. Copies may be ordered from Ronald P. Thrush, R. R. 2,
                            
                  Wabash, Indiana
                46992. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
            
               Women in 
                            Ohio
                         History: A Conference to Commemorate the Bicentennial of the American
                    Revolution. Edited by Marta Whitlock. (
                        Columbus
                    : The 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society for the 
                        Ohio
                     American Revolution Bicentennial Advisory Commission, 1976. Pp. 38. Illustrations,
                    notes, tables. Booklet, $2.00.) The six essays in this collection deal with the 
                        Salem
                     Convention of 1850, employment of married women in 
                        Ohio
                     from 1920 to 1940, women in public schools, and the lives and careers of a
                    governor's wife, a 
                        Toledo
                     feminist, and a 
                        Cleveland
                     domestic worker. The papers fulfill the notable intentions of the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society to encourage interest in aspects of the state's past
                    largely neglected by historians. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The Historic Indian In 
                            Ohio
                        : A Conference to Commemorate The Bicentennial of The American Revolution.
                    Edited by Randall Buchman. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society for the 
                        Ohio
                     American Revolution Bicentennial Advisory Commission, 1976. Pp. 46. Illustrations,
                    notes, maps, bibliographies. $2.00.) The papers in this publication were presented at a
                    conference in 1975 in an attempt to provide an overview of Indians and Indian-white relations in 
                        Ohio
                    . Papers by Reginald Horsman, James O'Donnell, and Richard C. Knopf deal with
                    the Revolutionary era. Carl Klopfenstein treats the removal of Indians from 
                        Ohio
                    , and James Clifton discusses the post removal history of 
                        Ohio
                    's native Americans. Together the papers provide a useful introduction to the
                    subject. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Manuscripts Guide to the Collections at the University of 
                            Illinois
                         at 
                            Urbana
                        -
                            Champaign
                        
               . [Edited] by Maynard J. Brichford, Robert W. Button, and Dennis F. Walle. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1976. Pp. 384. Index. $9.95.) This is a comprehensive list and
                    description of all manuscript collections at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    . The guide is divided into three parts: University Archives; 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Survey Library; and Business Archives, History Library, and Rare Book Room.
                    This excellent scholarly aid is testimony to the efforts of those who prepared it and to the rich
                    collections at the university. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
            
               Exhibits for the Small Museum: A Handbook. By Arminta Neal. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1976. Pp. ix, 169. Notes, figures,
                    illustrations. Paperbound. $8.00.) This excellent book will be valuable to curators and
                    staffs in local historical agencies and museums who are plagued by a lack of information on the nuts
                    and bolts techniques of exhibition and presentation. The many fine little outfits that labor with
                    tiny budgets and enthusiastic but sometimes untrained staff continue to be the chief outlets for the
                    interpretation of regional history and folklife. Books like Neal's help fill the gap of
                    practical information that assists museums in preparing high quality work. In 1969 Neal published
                        Help! For the Small Museum, which has had a beneficial impact on small
                    institutions, and this new volume is an extension of that first good book. Both are what the author
                    calls "do-it-yourself" and "how-to-do-it manuals" geared to the
                    energetic volunteers and low salaried personnel who daily produce tight, modest displays that in
                    turn reach very wide audiences across the country. Neal gives the basics of sensible design and
                    construction methods. If you put this volume together with Neal's first book, G. Ellis
                    Burcaw's uneven but useful Introduction to Museum Work (1976), Carl
                    Guthe's The Management of Small History Museums (1959), and George
                    MacBeath's and S. James Gooding's Basic Museum Management
                    (1969), the local curator will have a nucleus of usable and readable guides to better museum
                    presentations. Both Neal and AASLH deserve praise for adding another good title to their roster of
                    practical manuals. Howard Wight Marshall, American Folklife Center, Library of
                        Congress, 
                            Washington
                        
               .
            
               Tracing Your Ancestry: A Step-By-Step Guide to Researching Your Family History. By
                    F. Wilbur Helmbold. (
                        Birmingham
                    , Ala.: Oxmoor House, Inc., 1976. Pp. viii, 210. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $9.95.) This guide to geneological research provides a general introduction for persons
                    just beginning to develop a serious interest in family history. Helmbold carefully describes methods
                    of research and major kinds of sources, including census records, wills, land records, and church
                    documents. There is even a description of how to thread a microfilm reader! James H.
                        Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
            
               National Archives Microfilm Publications Deposited with the Regional Archives Branch 
                            Chicago
                         Federal Archives and Records Center during 1971-1972-1973: Microfilm List No.
                    1. (
                        Chicago
                    : Regional Archives Branch, 
                        Chicago
                     Federal Archives and Record Center, 1974. Pp. v, 30. Pamphlet, free.) This pamphlet
                    lists numerous microfilms available through interinstitutional loan rather than directly to
                    individuals. There are films concerning the Continental and Confederation congresses; papers
                    regarding the territories of the 
                        United States
                     preceding their admission as states; a wide variety of items regarding foreign
                    relations; letters about appointments to federal offices; and information on Indian affairs, the
                    public domain, federal census data, and numerous other topics. Donald F. Carmony,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The Lynching of Amer Green. Compiled and edited by C. E. Gerard and M. G. Griffey.
                    (Camden, Ind.: Photographic Associates, 1974. Pp. ii, 100. Illustrations. Booklet,
                    $5.50.) Amer Green was forcibly removed from the 
                        Carroll County
                     jail in 1887 and lynched by a mob. Green, who had allegedly murdered a local woman, had
                    been jailed pending his trial for that murder. Gerard and Griffey have compiled and edited a
                    considerable body of material from the 
                        Delphi
                    
                    Journal and the 
                        Delphi
                    
                    Times regarding this case. In an epilogue and commentary Gerard reviews the
                    circumstances involved and speculates about such matters as why Green was lynched. A copy of this
                    booklet can be obtained by writing Photographic Associates, Box 115, Camden, Indiana 46917. Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Our First Americans: The Indians of Today. By Ervin Stuntz. (Privately published,
                    1975. Pp. vii, 124. Illustrations. Paperbound, $4.00.) Stuntz, who has developed an
                    appreciation for the American Indian, has written a variety of brief and sympathetic sketches about
                    Indians throughout the 
                        United States
                    . The sources apparently mingle items from books, interviews, and oral tradition. This
                    volume can be ordered from Ervin Stuntz, R.R. 1, Box 167, Walkerton, Indiana 46574. Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
            
               All in a Century: The First 100 Years of Eli Lilly and Company. By E. J. Kahn, Jr. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    : Eli Lilly and Company, 1975]. Pp. 211. Illustrations, notes, index.) This brief and
                    readable volume commemorates the centennial of one of Indiana's leading companies. The
                    author, a self styled "outsider" who before 1974 knew nothing about Lilly or the
                    pharmaceutical industry, presents skillfully crafted ancedotes relating to the company and
                    especially to members of the Lilly family. The account is undocumented and laudatory rather than
                    analytical, but it is most interesting and will be of some use until a full scale scholarly history
                    of this important enterprise is available. The volume was prepared for employees and shareholders of
                    the Eli Lilly Company, and copies are not for sale. Insofar as supplies will permit, however, the
                    company will answer requests for the book from readers who are interested in having a copy. For
                    further information contact Mary E. Hendricks, Manager, Public Relations Services, Eli Lilly and
                    Company, 
                  Indianapolis, Indiana
                46206. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
         
            Book Reviewers
            Readers interested in having their names added to the list of potential book reviewers for the Indiana Magazine of History are invited to inform the editor. The prospective
                    reviewer should enclose a 4 × 6 card indicating name, address, and specific area and
                    topics of competence and interest. Additional information that might be provided, if relevant,
                    includes degree granting institution, current academic or professional affiliation, and
                    publications.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
