
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 18, Issue 1, pages 1-123. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:18+issue:1+year:1922&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            George H. Proffit His Day and Generation
            By GEORGE R. WILSON Jasper
            Dedicated to my sister Miss Margaret A. Wilson
            Information and incidents of thrilling interest may be found in the lives of many
                    of our leading pioneers in southern Indiana. They erected our state, wrote our
                    constitutions and started Indiana on a long and honorable career. The wisdom of
                    some was sought in the councils of the nation, to its own credit and benefit;
                    the voices of others were heard in congress, at public debates, and in our high
                    courts with consideration, pleasure, and public benefit; the bravery of many was
                    shown in our early wars and in the local but nationally historic battlefield of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , while the executive ability and war record of General Harrison
                    called him to the White House.
            One of the bright stars in a constellation we might call the "Southern
                    Cross" of Indiana is George H. Proffit, of 
                        Pike county
                    . My own county of 
                        Dubois
                     is interested in Mr. Proffit because he represented the county in
                    the legislature during the years 1831,1832,1836,1837, and 1838 (five terms); and
                    in congress, from 1839 to 1843, (two terms), twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh
                    congresses; and because he was one of our pioneer merchants, even though his
                    store at Porters-ville, our first county-town, may have been only a branch store
                    of that at 
                        Petersburg
                    . In this way we became, in a sense, personally interested in this
                    brilliant pioneer orator, political meteor, and youthful statesman; this French
                    lily of 
                        Louisiana
                    , transplanted to Hoosier soil, led an eventful career for about  twenty years, living entirely, while in
                    Indiana, under the state's first constitution.
            The production of a biographical sketch places a responsibility upon a writer
                    that is almost personal. For that reason we called into our services the
                    intimate knowledge of Mr. W. D. Crow, editor of the Petersburg Press; Mr. Simon Morgan, grandson, and Mr. Geo. C. Morgan,
                    great-grandson of Mr. Proffit; Mrs. Mary J. Taylor, and others to whom history
                    and tradition had been handed down. It has been said that so many distinguished
                    men have risen from apparently adverse circumstances on farms, or on the
                    frontier in America, that it has become a common lot of biography to magnify the
                    difficulties of such an origin and praise the man who has overcome such
                    impediments. We can hardly say this of our subject, for he was born September 7,
                    1807, in 
                        New Orleans
                    ; and, died in 
                        Louisville
                    , September 7, 1847, at the age of forty, but we can give him credit
                    for making use of his opportunities and abilities, which is indeed worth while.
                    It was Mr. Proffit's good fortune to be in touch with the best thought
                    and temper of the state in his day. In this connection it is well to remember
                    that eighty years ago the south and west were closely related from a political
                    standpoint. In point of time, trade and travel, 
                        New Orleans
                     was our metropolis.
            The 
                        New England
                     people pride themselves on their learning and general literary
                    qualities, and justly so; yet we must remember that from south of the
                        Ohio river–the cavalier half of America; the
                    Jamestown section, if you please–came many flowery orators,
                    statesment and writers, even from as far south as the Gulf of 
                        Mexico
                    . Patrick Henry, the orator of liberty days; 
                        Jefferson
                    , writer of the Declaration of Independence, our title deed to
                    liberty; 
                        Washington
                    , the father of his country; 
                        Marshall
                    , the construer and great conservator of the constitution, were
                    Virginians, and therefore southern people. It is largely due to Virginians that
                    the earlier public discussions and the later public papers so often partook of
                    the quality of literature. Our own subject was a capable artist when it came to
                    delivering an oratorical address in poetic prose.
            We do not wish to record mere platitudes of excellence, without giving a reason,
                    or the circumstances under which, or  through
                    which, Mr. Proffit's dominant qualities were brought out; therefore a
                    short review of pioneer days is carried through this biography. From the close
                    of the American Revolution until the close of the Civil war public speakers in
                    America were rather extravagant in their statements. Their orations were
                    frequently of the bombastic order, which in our vernacular is appropriately
                    named "tall talk." Even the most prominent and world renowned
                    orators used the grandiloquent style of oratory, in courts as well as before the
                    public. This tendency to extravagant oratory may be seen in the early orations
                    of such men as Patrick Henry; the scholarly Webster; the famous Virginian, known
                    as Henry Clay of 
                  Kentucky;
                            Missouri
               's
                    Senator Benton; 
                        South Carolina
                    's famous Senator Hayne, the great southern leader; John C.
                    Calhoun; and many others of Mr. Promt's day. Such oratory usually
                    follows successful revolutions, and frequently leads up to other revolutions. It
                    is a matter of fact that the Indiana pioneers loved a spread-eagle speech.
                    Eloquence of that kind reached a degree of extravagance, bombast, and turgidity,
                    never before known, except perhaps, in the ritualistic formalities of the feudal
                    ages. It was what the voter wanted and he got it, as he usually does, even unto
                    this day. Such a flow and style of language may have had much to do in placing
                    Indiana before the country in literature as well as in politics. It is also
                    found in the advertisements for the opening of new pioneer towns, about 1830.
            Mr. Promt was a shrewd politician and knew how to handle the gift nature had
                    given him, with the skill and art of the most successful orators of his day. His
                    style of delivery enhanced his words with deeper meaning and more power than
                    when ordinarily used. He knew how to apply the exciting adjectives to the
                    sleeping nouns, with the skill of a master. Mr. Proffit was a good off-hand
                    speaker, a success in an undress uniform as well as in the regulation dress suit
                    of his day. He was a brilliant and witty local epigramatist and phrasemaker,
                    whose ideas attracted any one who had the good fortune to know him intimately.
                    He looked what he was. His features were full of intellectual strength and
                    becoming graces. His glance was a mingling of the sunshine and the lightning of
                    heaven.
            
            Mr. Proffit came upon this earth during the first decade of the last century,
                    when such wonderful literary men as Cowper, Macauley, Lytton, Hugo, Emerson,
                    Schiller, Andersen, Browning, Mill, Longfellow, Whittier, Poe, Holmes, Tennyson,
                    Darwin, Fitzgerald, Lincoln, and many others were ushered in. Wonderful men were
                    being born! Few decades of the century can outclass the first decade. It was a
                    time when great intellectual men were coming. Could it have been in the air, or
                    in the heir?
            From 1830 to 1850, nearly all orators saw fit to have a high sounding beginning,
                    an argumentative discourse, and a lofty and grandiloquent peroration, in which
                    their figures of speech soar broad-cast to the high heavens. Occasionally
                    arguments were replaced by things sentimental. There was a lofty and bombastic
                    style not often seen in these days. The faded portraits of pioneer days usually
                    show an orator in a full dress suit, or a swallow-tailed coat, with one hand
                    stuck in front between the buttons in imitation of Daniel Webster, waiting for
                    the applause to die down.
            The decades from 1830 to 1850 were marked with mawkish sentimentality; it was an
                    era of extreme sentiment and gush, perhaps better described as
                    "swash"; no one seems to know just why. This is evident in the
                    songs, pictures, etc., of those days. Mr. Proffit lived in an age when people
                    were much given to hero worship and to extreme and sweeping statements. This is
                    evident from his addresses and from those of all other orators of his day. There
                    was much floridness and exaggeration in the political speeches of the middle
                    period of the last century. The Congressionable Globe is indisputable evidence.
            To have been born in a log cabin was a source of popularity at the time of the
                    Harrison election, in 1840, and it was magnified greatly for political effect.
                    In pioneer days the minds of men were busily engaged, perhaps more than at tTie
                    present time, in studying our government, compiling and applying new laws,
                    promoting new enterprises, institutions, or policies, or in finding objections
                    to them. Most men were intensely partisan, and were usually known as followers
                    of the thoughts promulgated by their respective favorite politician or
                    statesman, for whom they would fight at the drop of a hat.
            
            Mr. Proffit served five terms in the state legislature. In 1831 and also, in
                    1832, he served on the committee on education; in 1836 he served on the
                    judiciary committee, on enrolled bills and on canals and internal improvements;
                    in 1837, he served on the judiciary, on corporations, and on canal and internal
                    improvements, and in 1838, on the judiciary, canal and internal improvements. In
                    1837, Mr. Proffit received the second highest vote for speaker of the house.
            In Governor Noah Noble's message to the legislature, December, 1836,
                    appear these words: 
                        In establishing the several routes composing the plan of our public
                            works, they do not accommodate the interests, nor enlist the feelings of
                            our citizens of 
                        Jackson,
                                    Scott
                      and 
                                Clark
                             counties, nor of those south of the 
                                New Albany
                             and 
                                Vincennes
                             road, and therefore they complain of its injustice. Of
                            their dissatisfaction, information, both verbal and written, from
                            sources that cannot be disregarded, has been communicated to the
                            governor, that he may make it known to the legislature. In the last
                            named counties, delegates have been sent to a convention at Jasper to
                            deliberate upon measures for the promotion of their wishes, and through
                            their representatives here, the character of the improvements proposed,
                            and the extent of their claims upon the patronage of the state will be
                            made known to the legislature. But whilst they complain, they
                            acknowledged their obligations to the state, and mindful of their duty,
                            they are ready, now as heretofore, to sustain the state in her measures,
                            and to respect the supremacy of her laws. Good policy would seem to
                            dictate a course that will quiet these claims and unite these small
                            districts in interest and feeling with the other portions of the state,
                            and I recommend the subject to your serious considerations.
                    
            
            During the same session, but a few days later, Mr. Proffit presented a resolution
                    calling on the committee on canals and internal improvements to inquire into the
                    expediency of constructing a turn-pike road from 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Washington
                    , by way of 
                        Princeton
                     and Petersburg, and also one from Paoli to Mt. Carmel, by way of
                    French Lick, Portersville, and Petersburg. Thus he endeavored to make Petersburg
                    the crossing point of two improved highways. At one time, B. E. Ed-monston, of
                    the "Convention of Jasper," presented a petition in the house
                    of representatives asking for a state road from Jasper to the mouth of
                        White river. This "Convention of
                    Jasper" was a voice in the wilderness calling for means of
                    transportation, and the state highways now under construction  in 
                        Dubois
                     and adjoining counties are part of the delayed answer.
            Many pioneer speeches were delivered to win future votes for an internal
                    improvement in the home county, or to tickle the fancy and raise the pride in
                    the folks back home. The Wabash and Erie canal and its various branches,
                    constituted a subject of serious consideration in Mr. Proffit's day.
                    The routes of the canals were also a matter upon which an honest difference
                    could exist. Various towns on the Ohio river demanded a
                    terminal and great was the excitement months before even the surveys were made.
                    It was under such circumstances that one of Mr. Proffit's canal
                    speeches was delivered. As a future vote-getter in pioneer days as a high praise
                    of the generosity and public spirit of the men of his own counties of 
                        Dubois
                     and 
                        Pike
                    , and as a collection of flowery compliments, it is so classic, that
                    even Lord Chesterfield himself, might have to look to his laurels. The entire
                    speech appears in the Indiana Democrat January 13, 1832. The
                    speech was delivered in the legislature, in January, 1832, when Mr. Proffit
                    represented the counties of 
                        Dubois
                     and 
                        Pike
                    . Arouse ye sleeping politicians of today, wipe off the dew-drops
                    that sparkle on your garments, and listen to what the voters used to hear or
                    read in days gone by. Mr. Proffit's speech is too long to copy here,
                    but listen to this extract: 
                        I stand upon this floor, sir, the wakeful guardian of the rights and
                            interest of two counties, southern counties, sir, far distant from the
                            scene of this contemplated work and non-expectants of a share in the
                            distribution of its funds; we are as little interested in the work as
                            any portion of the state can possibly be, but, sir, I have generous and
                            liberal constituents, men, who in charging me to watchfulness and
                            wisdom, mean not that I should indiscriminately oppose any measure, no
                            matter how important, because not immediately conducive to their
                            interest; men who would regret to see their feelings and generosity
                            misrepresented in this hall by me their sentinel, sounding the alarm cry
                            of danger, and no danger to be apprehended; shouting the fearful word
                            "taxation" and no contribution asked. No sir, we care
                            not where a work of character and importance is projected without
                            jeopardizing the monied interest of the state, north or south, east or
                            west, it shall have our fostering hand extended over it and it shall
                            command our untiring exertions to its advancement and success.
                    
            
            
            This address falls musically upon the ear and awakens slumbering memories of men
                    and events. It brings a smile, for the amount of state taxes paid by his two
                    counties was very small. In 1829, in 
                        Dubois county
                    , it was only $209.68, and that included some delinquent
                    taxes and penalties. This speech had foresight in it. The southern arm of the
                    canal was built by way of Petersburg to 
                        Evansville
                    . Mr. Promt occasionally used this pun, at his own expense,
                    "I am not only a Promt but the son of a Proffit."
            Mr. Proffit and the people of 
                        Dubois county
                     had a vision of a railroad from 
                        New Albany
                    , through 
                        Dubois county
                    , to Mount Carmel, 
                        Illinois
                    . On Saturday, January 7, 1837, Mr. Proffit presented in the house
                    of representatives, a petition signed by sundry citizens of 
                        Dubois county
                     praying for a rail or macadamised road from 
                        New Albany
                     to Mount Carmel. A bill was passed to incorporate the
                    "Mount Carmel and 
                        New Albany
                     Railroad Company." Ten days later he was fighting in the
                    Indiana house of representatives for an appropriation of $150,000 for
                    a road from 
                        Rockport
                     to Jasper, and a continuation from Jasper, by the most eligible
                    route to the Central canal, but before he could complete the work the house
                    adjourned. The case was lost, so to speak, by a vote of 41 to 49. The Wabash and
                    Erie canal and the 
                        Michigan
                     road were financially helped by land grants, so why not aid other
                    public enterprises? On June 6, 1838, Senators John Tipton and O. H. Smith had a
                    bill before the 
                        United States
                     senate to grant to the Mount Carmel and 
                        New Albany
                     railroad company of Indiana, the alternate sections of the public
                    land on the route of the road, on condition that the company should carry the 
                        United States
                     mail for twenty years and its troops, arms, and munitions of war,
                    forever free of expense. It was ably defended by the two Indiana senators. The
                    bill was amended and then made a special order for the next day. It was not
                    passed, yet, the Southern railroad is the vision that came true. Do you
                    recognize it? It is the Biblical Jacob's ladder to the Knobs, and its
                    branches now cover ten out of the eleven counties in Mr. Proffit's old
                    district.
            Mr. Proffit did excellent work in the Indiana house of representatives, but he
                    never became a state senator. Fortune  failed
                    him in that ambition, for Judge Elisha Embree, who was rather conservative on
                    the question of internal improvements, defeated Mr. Promt for the state senate,
                    about 1838; and, in 1847, was elected to congress over Robert Dale Owen. 
                        Pike county
                     was kindly disposed toward Mr. Proffit. In the congressional race
                    of 1839, in 
                        Pike county
                    , Mr. Proffit received 478 votes; Mr. Owen 227. Robert Dale Owen
                    succeeded Mr. Proffit, in 1843, and Judge Elisha Embree succeeded Owen, in 1847.
            You who love to ramble down the dusty corridors of yester-century and who love to
                    draw the curtains and peep into the mysteries of long ago, may study the
                    traditions and read the printed pages of the annals of time, from the first dawn
                    of written history to the twilight of yester-night and you may not find a
                    character to parallel that of Abraham Lincoln–the child of 
                        Kentucky
                    , the boy of Indiana, the young man of 
                        Illinois
                    , the man of America, and, father of freedom who now belongs to the
                    ages; and, you must not forget that he lived here among us, in the days when 
                        Clay
                    , Proffit, Brackenridge, and other political orators were making the
                    welkin ring, and he drank in such speeches as only they were able to deliver.
                    Mr. Proffit was a political factor in southern Indiana before the Lincoln family
                    moved to 
                        Illinois
                    . He was full of political efficiency, of rare personal service, and
                    of rich southern humor and, no doubt was enjoyed by Abraham Lincoln, for both
                    Lincoln and Proffit knew there was more human nature in the world than anything
                    else.
            Mr. Proffit was known over all of Indiana from the Ohio
                    river to the shifting sand-dunes of the lake counties. It appears
                    that his was the pride and flower of the Hoosier oratory of his day. He was
                    magnetic, popular, and successful; there radiated from him vigor, health and
                    happiness. His presence was felt wherever he was. It is said he had the ability
                    to give back to an audience its own thoughts and conceptions, illuminated,
                    purged, perfected perhaps magnified, and transfigured until the product was
                    better than the audience could produce, and by this art he won approval because
                    he understood and was understood. He had the power to express a soul's
                    emotion and appreciation. Occasionally he could make the place where he stood
                    breathe forth an atmosphere of  dreams and
                    fancies. 
                        Washington
                     used long words; Lincoln used short words, as did most pioneers in
                    southern Indiana, except in the writing of legal documents, but Mr. Proffit ran
                    to neither extreme.
            In his oratorical peregrinations over the state of Indiana, no doubt he went well
                    prepared for his addresses, even to the extent of seven fingers.
                    "Loaded seven fingers" was a pioneer expression meaning that a
                    muzzle-loading gun of those days was so heavily charged that the ramrod stood
                    out seven inches above the muzzle. The expression came to mean "well
                    prepared", as for a speech. He could deliver a virile, pulsating
                    American political speech, whenever necessary. Early pioneer orators were long
                    on the glories of liberty and freedom, the rights of man, and kindred
                    generalities, and usually full of historical and political platitudes. Mr.
                    Proffit was so constituted, that if he fell in an undertaking, he would fall
                    like a strong man; he would not hesitate to embrace the pillars of a house and
                    pull the house down upon him. He was a master of sentences and could build them
                    well balanced and full of grace, dignity, and ever increasing interest. He
                    seemed always able to charm, fascinate, and carry away his hearers. He had the
                    power to transform dry logic into sentiment.
            There was an aristocratic southern color about him that was not altogether
                    without its punishment and rewards. According to all accounts we have of him he
                    was a pioneer orator in demand even in the elite east. His speeches do not have
                    the breadth and depth of Webster, those of very few orators do, but in the mere
                    use of words many of his sentences come upon us with a fancied Websterian ring
                    of college days. He had a gift of words and a facility of expression, the result
                    of much choice reading and careful study. For a western orator, his orations had
                    an unusually wide range of thought, imagination, and broad
                    appeal.
            Under the uninvited questions that come from a modern political crowd, the
                    rounded periods of the olden times, that embodied the eloquence of the past,
                    have disappeared; and hard knocks, close reasoning, and pointed questions
                    demanding a direct answer have taken their places.
            In their stump speeches, during the heat of political campaigns very often our
                    local pioneer orators used noisy rhetoric, 
                    tossed out big adjectives and stinging epithets, and made real exaggerations.
                    They brought this fiery oratory from the south. Mr. Promt, himself, could make
                    stinging adjectives cluster about an opponent's name, as honey-bees
                    gather about the wild flowers of the countryside. There was a great deal of
                    solemn humbug in frontier politics of eighty years ago. As a rule many pioneer
                    speeches show superlative degrees, excessive tastes, and vicious language. They
                    often contained much scurrility and abuse of the opposite party. Jackson used to
                    say he had won all his battles, defeated all his enemies, and rewarded all his
                    friends. In pioneer days the rancorous animosities of politics led to many a
                    fist-fight. These early campaigns, usually grumbled with thunder, but in time,
                    the violent eddies in the stream were flowing smoothly to the sea.
            Among Mr. Proffit's political or oratorical peers or opponents may be
                    mentioned three men, all strong and prominent Democrats, all sturdy and
                    successful men. of their day and exceedingly worthy and honorable, and all
                    eventually members of the constitutional convention of 1850. They show the power
                    and make of men with whom he had to compete. Mr. Proffit's most
                    prominent opponents were Benjamin Rose Ed monston, Judge James Lockhart, and
                    Robert Dale Owen.
            Benj. R. Edmonston was a man of large, physical frame and great personal courage.
                    He was devoted and strong in his attachments to principles or friends and ever
                    ready to defend them. He was always bitter in his denunciations of what he
                    considered wrong. These traits in his character fitted him to be a leader in the
                    days of the early settlement of 
                        Dubois county
                    , when personal encounters often settled the political status of a
                    neighborhood or county. Many times before he was of age he demonstrated his
                    physical strength in "fist and skull" encounters with the
                    champions of his political opponents, as was customary in pioneer days. He
                    weighed over two hundred pounds and when flat-boating was the means of
                    transportation, he would frequently shoulder a barrel of corn and carry it upon
                    the boat–a feat ordinarily requiring two men. He had more than an
                    average intellectual ability, although having only the scant education the
                    "bab schools" of that day afforded. He was a successful public
                    debater and stump orator in the then First congressional district. He was  a presidential elector of this district in
                    1844 and cast his vote for James Knox Polk. His style was fervid and pointed,
                    more calculated to arouse enthusiasm in his own party than to win over persons
                    from the opposite party. Edmonston had red hair, a florid complexion, and
                    usually wore a red flannel shirt. His friends called him "Red
                    Rover." He was a native of 
                  Buncombe
                            county, North
                    Carolina
               , and was always jealous of the honor of his native
                    state, but not given much to the use of "buncombe." His
                    political speeches were spiced with his own solos, for he was a good singer. He
                    was born March 8, 1807, died in August, 1856, and his remains lie buried in 
                        Dubois county
                    . Benj. R. Edmonston was a member of the house during the 20th,
                    24th, 28th, and 83rd sessions, was state senator during the 29th, 30th, and 31st
                    sessions of the Indiana legislature, a member of the last state constitutional
                    convention, sheriff of 
                        Dubois county
                    , and, at the time of his death, one of the state canal
                    commissioners.
            In the Western Sun, April 26, 1836, appears a column letter
                    dated at 
                        Jasper
                    , March 31, 1836. It is signed by Benj. Rose Edmonston. It is one of
                    the very first letters, dated at 
                        Jasper
                    , to find its way to a printed page. The letter is well written,
                    full of political data, Biblical references, and the political irony of the day.
                    It is directed against George H. Proffit, who was a candidate for state
                    representative for 
                        Pike
                     and 
                        Dubois
                     counties. Few could compose a better letter today. However, Mr.
                    Proffit was elected and served during the session which opened on the following
                    December, and it was during that session he presented his railroad petitions.
            Mr. Proffit's store at 
                        Portersville
                    , not over eight miles from Mr. Edmonston's country
                    mansion, may have been a Whig listening post for the purpose of prolonging Whig
                    supremacy in 
                        Dubois county
                    , for the county had been under Whig local government from its
                    organization until 1839, when the Democrats came into county power, and remained
                    there even unto this day. The Whig party, in 
                        Dubois county
                    , went out with the smoking embers of the old log court house at 
                        Jasper
                    , while its successor, the Republican party, has never been able to
                    obtain a substantial foothold in the purely local and county government.
            
            Judge James Lockhart was a man of acknowledged talents, a forcible speaker, a
                    sound lawyer, and a good judge; he made no pretense to what is called flowery
                    eloquence, but was rather a matter-of-fact, straightforward speaker and much
                    endeared to his friends. He had few of the arts of the professional orator, and
                    none of that studied grace and polish which some men often utilize in place of
                    solid worth and good judgment; but he was a sober thinker, and never addressed
                    an audience without conveying a message of value. He was "formed on the
                    good old plan, a true and brave democratic man." Well poised with the
                    serenity of calm judgment, he was duly and truly prepared to serve his people in
                    the exalted position he held, but the voters did not send him to congress in his
                    first attempt, in the year 1839. Judge Lockhart is described as being tall,
                    large, and portly, forehead prominent, hair and eyes dark. He was a most
                    valuable member of the late constitutional convention of Indiana. He represented
                    the counties of 
                        Pike
                     and 
                        Vandenburg
                    , and stood by the ancient landmarks with great firmness. He was the
                    first judge to formulate a code of rules for the government of his circuit
                    courts. He died while a member of congress, having served in 1851, 1852, and
                    1857.
            Robert Dale Owen was a Democrat of great force in the state. It was mainly
                    through the efforts of Robert Dale Owen, a Scotchman, that the women of Indiana
                    finally secured the right to own and control their separate property during
                    marriage; the right to their own earnings; the widow's absolute
                    ownership of her part of the deceased husband's property; and a
                    woman's right to divorce a husband for habitual drunkenness and
                    cruelty. He is so prominently connected with the pioneer history and development
                    of southern Indiana that the writer may as well carry roses to 
                        New Castle
                     as to place a laurel on his brow.
            Mr. Owen was a man small in stature, with a large forehead, light hair and eyes,
                    and prominent features. He looked like a sturdy Scotchman, recently from the
                    "Land o' Cakes." He was a man of many parts and in
                    early life wrote a play called "Pocahontas." He was a man of
                    literary ability, a reformer, and a statesman. He was born at
                            
                  Glasgow, Scotland
               , November 7, 1801. His family
                    became connected with the 
                    
                        New Harmony
                     pioneer enterprise, a subject too large to mention now except by
                    name. Robert Dale Owen was considered one of the best educated, most
                    intelligent, and most influential men of his day in southern Indiana.
            On August 5, 1839, Mr. Owen and Mr. Promt were candidates for congress, and Mr.
                    Promt was elected. Mr. Owen carried the counties of 
                  Orange, Posey,
                            Warrick
               , and 
                        Dubois
                    ; and Mr. Promt carried 
                  Gibson, Harrison, Crawford, Spencer,
                            Vandenburg, Perry
               , and 
                        Pike
                    . In 1877, in an article published in Scribner's Monthly, Mr. Owen gave this incident of that
                    campaign: 
                        I may mention here, as illustrative of the style of thought and idiomatic
                            expression among the simple people with whom I had made my home, an
                            incident of later date, when I was in the field for congress against
                            George H. Promt. It was in a rustic portion of the district, and after I
                            had spoken I had been invited as usual to spend the night at a
                            neighboring farmer's. Happening to sit, during the evening, on
                            my host's front porch, I overheard, from just 'round
                            the. corner of the cabin, the conversation of two men who did not
                            suppose I was within ear-shot. Their talk was, as usual, of the
                            candidates:
                        "Did you hear Owen speak?" asked one.
                        "Yes," said the other, "I hearn him."
                            "Now, ain't he a hoss?" was the next
                            question. "Well, yes; they're both blooded nags; they
                            make a very pretty race."
                    
            
            Seldom, indeed, were better blooded men than Promt and Owen entered for
                    congressional sweepstakes.
            Later, Mr. Owen became a member of congress and served his district well. While
                    in congress he was a prominent character. He introduced a bill creating the
                    Smithsonian Institution, and for many years afterwards he was one of its
                    regents. At the south steps of the state house stands a bronze statue of Mr.
                    Owen. The inscription reads: 
                        1801–1877
                        An Appreciation
                        Erected in 1911 in honor of Robert Dale Owen by the women of Indiana in
                            recognition of his efforts to obtain for them education privileges and
                            legal rights.
                        Author, Statesman, Politician, Philanthropist.
                            "Write me as one who loved his fellow men."
                    
            
            
            In the musty tomes of congress are to be found many speeches of John Lockhart,
                    Robert Dale Owen, and Mr. Proffit. In the Indiana constitutional convention of
                    1850, Mr. Owen was considered the best writer of correct English. The names of
                    Edmonston, Lockhart, and Owen, in the order named, appear in their own
                    chirography on the original engrossed parchment copy of the state constitution
                    of 1850 in the spread-eagle signatures of pioneer days. That is the document
                    referred to when you hold up your hand and swear "to support the
                    constitution of the state of Indiana," etc. These men have been given
                    full consideration that you may form an idea of the men with whom Mr. Proffit
                    found it necessary to compete for the honors he earned. The highest honors to
                    these men came after Mr. Proffit had passed to the great beyond. In the
                    beginning of the race for congress, in 1839, Judge Lockhart was nominated, at 
                        Jasper
                    , on what was then known as the "Van Buren
                    ticket." It was the first congressional convention ever held at 
                        Jasper
                    . In time Judge Lockhart withdrew and Robert Dale Owen was
                    substituted. Mr. Proffit's election over Mr. Owren drew the attention
                    of voters from distant states, because of Mr. Owen's religious
                    principles.
            Geo. H. Proffit was educated in English and French, and belonged to one of the
                    leading families of 
                        Louisiana
                    , where his grandfather held the office of surveyor-general under
                    the French government. He came to 
                        Pike county
                     about 1828 at the age of twenty-one, and engaged in the merchandise
                    business. He is spoken of as "a merchant of the twenties." He
                    became a member of the Indiana, legislature and served several terms with
                    distinction. He served in congress two terms. The east and south regarded him as
                    a brilliant son of Indiana. Much praise was showered upon him by Whig papers of
                    about 1840, during the Tippecanoe and Tyler campaign. He was a true southerner
                    and was very fond of politics, hunting, fishing, and horse racing. In that
                    respect he was akin to Daniel Webster of the same day and generation. Webster
                    outlined many of his famous orations, and committed some to memory while fishing
                    in the streams in and about Marshfield, his 
                        New England
                     estate. Mr. Proffit was perhaps as good a fisherman as Peter of
                    old, and he was also a fairly good fisher of men and votes for many years, as is
                    evident from his political record.  Mr.
                    Proffit may have constructed many of his flowery sentences while fishing in Mill
                    creek, and in Patoka, and White rivers.
            Oliver H. Smith, whose face may be seen upon a copper tablet in the waiting room
                    of the 
                        Union
                     Station, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and who was the author of Early Indiana Trials and
                        Sketches, a valuable pioneer volume of 1857, had a personal
                    acquaintance with George H. Proffit. Senator Smith served his state in the
                    senate, at 
                        Washington
                    , while Mr. Proffit was a member of congress from Indiana. In his
                    book Senator Smith has this to say of Mr. Proffit: 
                        In the great campaign of 1840, which resulted in the triumph of General
                            Harrison, there were few speakers of greater prominence than George H.
                            Promt of 
                        Petersburg,
                                    Pike county
                     . He was
                            in person below the medium size, short, slim, and spare, a good mouth,
                            head small, high forehead, cheeks bony, dark eyes, light brown hair. He
                            was quick and ready, his voice remarkably loud and clear, and he
                            possessed a fluent elocution and a fertile imagination. The greater
                            power of Mr. Proffit was on the stump before the people. I first became
                            acquainted with him at 
                                Washington City
                            , while he was in the house of representatives. He very soon
                            made his mark in the House, and rose to a highly respectable position as
                            a ready debater. As a popular speaker, in addressing the masses, few
                            stood higher in the East. One evening, after dark, I was passing down
                            the avenue from Capitol Hill, at 
                                Washington
                            , when I noticed a large gathering up at the City Hall. I
                            walked up, and found it to be a political Harrison meeting. Many
                            transparencies were exhibited. General Walter Jones, the president, was
                            seated on the platform, surrounded by vice-presidents. Just as I reached
                            the skirts of the crowd, General Jones rose, and at the top of his voice
                            said: "Is the Honorable George H. Proffit of Indiana in the
                            assembly? If so he will come forward and address the audience",
                            A voice in the crowd, "Mr. Proffit is unable to speak tonight.
                            He exhausted himself at 
                                Wilmington
                             last night." General Jones: "We are sorry
                            to hear it, the people want to hear Mr. Proffit. Is Caleb Cushing of 
                                Massachusetts
                             in the crowd?" A voice: "Yes, Mr. Cushing
                            is here." "Let him come up to the stand." I
                            was much gratified to see our Proffit stand higher with the multitude as
                            a speaker, than Mr. Cushing, the distinguished orator of 
                                Massachusetts
                            . Mr. Cushing took the stand and spoke over an hour. I heard
                            few such speeches during the campaign. He was rather taller than Mr.
                            Proffit, inclined to baldness, wide mouth and dark hair. He was fluent,
                            loud, rapid and animated. The only fault I could find at the time with
                            his speech, was its extreme bitterness against the Democratic party. I
                            had been much on the stump in that contest, had heard many distinguished
                            men, and my observation had satisfied me that soft words  and hard arguments was the true policy. The
                            sun, and not the wind, made the traveler part with his cloak.
                        Mr. Proffit abandoned the Whig cause with his friends–Cushing,
                            Wise, Upshur, Gilmer, Spencer, Irwin, and a few others, in 1841. His
                            name was more fortunate than theirs, in not being rejected by the
                            Senate. The reason, however, was that Mr. Tyler wisely withheld the
                            nomination of Mr. Proffit until after the Senate adjourned, and then
                            sent him to 
                                Brazil
                             as our Charge. The senate at the next session refused to
                            confirm the nomination, and he returned soon after, in very bad health,
                            lingered for some time, and died at the city of 
                                Louisville
                            . The last time I was at 
                                Petersburg
                             I visited his tomb. As I stood silently by his grave, he
                            seemed to rise as in the day of his pride before me, and then sink back
                            to his mother earth. How soon we pass from active life to the sleep of
                            death!
                    
            
            Mr. Proffit is interestingly spoken of in A Tour Through Indiana in
                        1800, a delightful and charming Indiana production from the pen of Mrs.
                    Kate Milner Rabb. Mr. Owen is also mentioned with becoming grace and dignity.
                    This wonderfully well drawn pen picture of the pioneer days of Indiana deserves
                    a careful perusal if you are interested in the subject of this paper, and his
                    day and generation with its barbecues, speeches, and processions. Politicians in
                    Mr. Proffit's day did things and took chances no one would dare attempt
                    in Indiana today. In 1840, Martin Van Buren was the Democratic candidate for
                    re-election as president, and William Henry Harrison was the Whig candidate. It
                    was during this campaign that Mr. Proffiit rendered heroic work for the Whigs.
            On page 342, of Goodspeed's History of 
                            Pike
                         and 
                            Dubois
                         Counties, we find this notice of Mr. Proffit: 
                        During the "twenties" George H. Proffit came to
                            Petersburg and engaged in merchandising. He later turned his attention
                            to law and politics, especially the latter. He was a shrewd politician
                            and an orator of great brilliancy, etc.
                     Thus a commercial history dismisses its mention of one of the most
                    wonderful men accredited to 
                        Pike county
                    .
            It is related of Mr. Proffit that once upon his return from 
                        Washington
                    , he brought with him a very fine carriage, carryall or barouche,
                    the first ever seen in 
                        Pike county
                    . It was drawn by a team of dashing horses with a set of flashy
                    harness. As was usual in those days, there was a large basket meeting  in the neighborhood of Petersburg. Mr. and Mrs.
                    Proffit attended, coming in the carriage, their driver in livery, and Mr. and
                    Mrs. Proffit correctly dressed, silk hat and all, after the fashion of the elite
                    east. The approach of the Proffits created a sensation, and any one who knows
                    the pioneers of the decade of the forties needs no prophet to tell him what
                    result to expect. It practically broke up the meeting. The Proffit turn-out got
                    the crowd, leaving the minister almost without a congregation. The people
                    viewed, admired, and wondered, but the old taxpayers shook their heads, did not
                    approve, and said that hereafter they would not vote for any one who made such a
                    display on the money they were paying him to represent them in congress; that it
                    was too much like royalty and not to the liking of an American citizen of
                    southern Indiana. The amusing part about this is the fact that no other public
                    speaker in Indiana could so bemean and condemn the Van Buren administration in 
                        Washington
                     for its extravagancies, aristocratic tendencies and so on, as Mr.
                    Proffit. Yet, Mr. Proffit was dressy, he could not avoid it; he was a cultured,
                    educated, aristocratic man from the south and really at home in the social ways
                    of 
                        Washington
                     and the east. The southern cavalier spirit was in him and he could
                    not help it; blood will tell.
            Mr. Goodlet Morgan who heard the address used to relate a story to the effect
                    that at one time Mr. Proffit had incurred the displeasure of some of the voters
                    of Petersburg, whether through the defamation of his rivals, the carriage and
                    livery. or some fancied wrongs seems unknown. Having in some way, become aware
                    of this displeasure, Mr. Proffit notified the voters by placards at the voting
                    places that he wished to speak to them once more before they voted. A large
                    crowd gathered to hear him, and he spoke for an hour. At the end of the speech
                    he secured practically every vote in the town, such was the overpowering
                    influence of his eloquence, and the strength of his logic. It is interesting to
                    know that he prepared for this event with the greatest care and the highest
                    regard for "stage setting." He had a platform built with a
                    canopy, dressed his two little daughters in their finest white dresses, and had
                    one of them on each side of him. In beginning his speech he told the crowd that
                    he wanted it to understand  that he valued
                    its good opinion and its confidence even as he loved his two little girls. He
                    told the crowd, that he could with fortitude and courage, although with
                    unspeakable grief, follow to the grave the bodies of his beloved children and
                    there stand until the last clod was thrown upon their little coffins, but he
                    confessed that he had not the strength to endure the loss of the confidence of
                    the masses who had so frequently honored him, whom he had sought to serve so
                    faithfully, and whose good opinion he was sure he still deserved. He then
                    proceeded with an exposition of his views and an explanation of his attitude
                    with the result that the whole crowd was with him heart and soul long before he
                    had finished.
            In 1842, the Whig party began to separate itself from President Tyler and to
                    detest him. By May, 1843, President Tyler was abandoned by the Whigs and was
                    seeking support for his administration from the Democrats. In the main it was
                    the old banking system that caused the dissatisfaction.
            In 1841, Mr. Proffit left the Whig party. He was a turbulent and daring spirit.
                    There was a French cavalier dash In him. His tempestuous public harangues suited
                    the people of the times. His style of oratory was every where received with
                    acclamation and huzzas. When it was known that he was to be present at a
                    political gathering, it added hundreds to the excited throng. His spirit was
                    suited to lead in battle. He was in the front rank as an orator in 1840. Do not
                    blame Mr. Proffit too harshly for leaving the Whigs. He was placed in the front
                    rank where the battle raged the fiercest. He would not accept a rear guard
                    position when the danger was past. Mr. Proffit was a real idol of the common
                    people when political excitement prevailed. His speeches were bold and searching
                    against the Democrats of Van Buren's day.
            Under our first constitution, state elections were held annually in August; the
                    legislature convened in December and everybody talked politics. Party conflicts
                    were frequent and extremely animated. Political fist-fights were common; for
                    heated discussions were conducive to ugly words and combats, yet after all, they
                    were sponsors of our present local political knowledge. The early newspapers of
                    Indiana contained very little of what we now call local news. Politics was the
                    chief item of interest in pioneer days, and aside from a few brief  items from the outside world column after column
                    was given over to the discussion of national and state political questions.
                    Political booklets, or tracts, were printed and circulated, and in this way
                    Indiana eventually became a close state, politically. Many of the booklets were
                    severe in tone and argument.
            Mr. Proffit's biography gives us valuable glimpses of the days when
                    Indiana was in the turmoil of annual elections in the dog days of every August.
                    No sooner was one election over, than they began their stump speeches for
                    revenge at the next general election. Today when a man is a candidate for
                    congress we are permitted to speak to him as "running for
                    congress." In pioneer days a candidate for congress was spoken of as
                    "standing a poll for congress."
            In 1839, the Whig candidates for the nomination to congress in the first district
                    were John A. Brackenridge, G. Burton Thompson and Geo. H. Proffit. Mr. Proffit
                    was nominated at 
                        Rockport
                    . He received five votes out of the eight that were cast. The
                    convention was conducted on the county unit system. The votes of
                            
                  Dubois, Pike, Gibson, Vanderburg
               , and 
                        Posey
                     were cast for Mr. Proffit. Each county had one vote. 
                        Crawford county
                     voted for Senator G. Burton Thompson, of 
                        Perry county
                    , while 
                        Spencer
                     and 
                        Warrick
                     voted for 
                        Brackenridge
                    . 
                  Perry, Orange
               , and 
                        Harrison
                     were not represented at the convention. In this convention Simon
                    Morgan, John Hurst, and Dr. A. B. McCrillus, one of the founders of 
                        Jasper
                    , represented 
                        Dubois county
                    . 
                        Pike county
                     was represented by M. W. Foster, John W. Posey, and Albert Hammond.
            In speaking of an address delivered at Freedonia, April 29, 1839, by Mr. Proffit,
                    the Leavenworth Arena of May 2, says: 
                        Well may Pike and Dubois boast of their, faithful servant–one
                            who has done much for the enlightened and patriotic people that so often
                            honored him with their suffrage. Mr. Proffit's speech was
                            listened to very attentively. Many went to hear him, and at the same
                            time harbored great prejudices against him, but afterwards were
                            thoroughly convinced that he was the people's
                            man–such a man as they would delight to honor.
                    
            
            The extent to which the pioneers would go to defeat a candidate is shown in a
                    copy of the Hickory Club a pioneer paper, wherein, among other
                    things, appears this statement: 
                    
                        It is currently reported in this county, and the people generally believe
                            it, that he (Mr. Proffit) kicked the Bible out of his house and in
                            mockery to the Christian religion administered the Lord's
                            supper using cornbread and buttermilk. This is said to be true.
                    
            
            This statement was signed "
                        Harrison County
                    ;" however, it was a coward's attack and not a
                    county's. This was also charged against Mr. Proffit, in earlier
                    campaigns in 
                        Pike
                     and 
                        Dubois
                     counties, but these charges were never substantiated. Time after
                    time Mr. Proffit challenged any man to prove ihis charge against him. One
                    slanderer said "Mr. Proffit administered the sacrament with whiskey,
                    etc." This is mentioned here as an example of pioneer politics. Judge
                    James Lock-hart started to make this race for congress in 1839, but in time,
                    Robert Dale Owen was substituted and became the Democratic candidate; then the
                    "concoctors of the buttermilk slander" had all they could do
                    to clear up another religious controversy. The "buttermilk
                    slander" became so extensively circulated that ministers and other
                    church people finally carded the papers as follows: 
                        Petersburg, June 12, 1839. We, the undersigned, members of the Methodist,
                            Presbyterian, and Baptist churches of 
                                Pike county
                             having understood that a report has been circulated that
                            Geo. H. Proffit of this county, kicked the Bible out of his house and
                            administered the Lord's supper with cornbread and buttermilk,
                            and was guilty of other disorderly and unbecoming conduct, deem it a
                            duty incumbent on us, as good citizens and as Christians, to pronounce
                            it a vile falsehood. Many of us have been acquainted with Mr. Proffit
                            several years, from his first settling in this state, and he could not
                            have been guilty of such improper behavior without it coming to our
                            knowledge, and we regret that any person should be guilty of such gross
                            falsehood as to charge Mr. Proffit with such conduct.
                        (Rev.) James Ritchey
                            (REV.) DAVID HORNADY, Samuel Stucky, Jr. (REV.) H. P. DE BRULER,
                                SAMUEL STUCKY, SR.
                    
            
            Mr. Promt's southern accent caused many of his political enemies to
                    believe he was a foreigner. In closing a circular issued during the campaign of
                    1839, Mr. Proffit says: 
                        I am a native of 
                                Louisiana
                            , and every feeling of my heart is truly American. I have
                            resided in this state eleven years, five of which I  have served in the legislature, and I
                            assure you that if you should honor me with your suffrage for the office
                            I seek, every opportunity shall be gladly seized to evince to you my
                            gratitude.
                        To my competitor personally, I have no objections, he has always treated
                            me as a gentleman, but to me there is a very convincing reason why he
                            should not go to congress. I WISH TO GO MYSELF.
                    
            
            Mr. Proffit's victory, in 1839, was indeed a victory, for it was an
                    early Whig congressional victory in the Pocket. Mr. Proffit won his laurels as
                    an orator before he was thirty-four years of age. At a time when oratory was in
                    flower in the American congress he was an idolized, popular Whig leader and a
                    far-famed Hoosier orator, whose speeches were veritable Niagaras of forceful
                    logic and rhetoric. One wonders where this Petersburg merchant acquired his
                    ability and when he found time to keep abreast of the national questions of the
                    day, to such an extent as to attract national recognition.
            In August, 1839, George H. Proffit was elected to congress from this district by
                    a vote of 6,008, being 779 more than Robert Dale Owen, the Democrat, received.
                    Mr. Proffit was known at that time as a constructive Whig, yet men were not
                    always known by party names. Politics was very personal. In the Indiana
                    delegation to congress in 1841, all were new men but Mr. Proffit, who alone
                    withstood the political upheaval of the campaign. During Mr. Proffit's
                    last term in congress his associates were Andrew Kennedy, Henry S. Lane, Richard
                    W. Thompson, and David Wallace, all exceptionally strong men. This election gave
                    Mr. Proffit a prominence in Indiana and in many eastern states. The presidential
                    campaign of 1840 was much of a frolic on the part of the Whigs. There were many
                    jubilant and uproarious expressions of imprisoned mirth and fun on the part of
                    the voters, and anything like calmness of judgment and real seriousness of
                    purpose seemed to be absent from the Whig camp. Harrison was presented to the
                    Whigs as a "poor man's friend"–while Van
                    Buren was proclaimed an aristocrat. The Whigs charged President Van Buren with
                    using golden spoons, with planting mulberry trees in the 
                        White
                     House grounds, and with other so-called extravagances, etc. The
                    Whigs claimed he was so "slick" that he should have planted
                    "slippery elms." His enemies referred to him as the
                    "Kinderhook Wizard." General Harrison's military  record was magnified greatly by the Whigs, a
                    common custom in those days, borrowed from the 
                        Jackson
                     Democrats. In the congressional election of 1840, when Geo. H.
                    Profnt was again elected to congress, he received 190 votes in 
                        Dubois county
                     while Judge Lockhart received 202. Mr. Profnt served in congress
                    from March 4, 1839, to March 3, 1843. At that time Mr. Profnt was rated as a
                    Whig, and since then few Whigs or Republicans, as such, ran any better races in 
                        Dubois county
                    . Pioneer voters were men usually of few words and they were usually
                    for a man, or against a man. It was not always a party question. Voters made no
                    half-way choice. If they had no use for a man, they never told him to go to
                    limbus; they told him to go all the way down. An idea of what was uppermost in
                    the minds of people at any given time may be obtained from the subjects of their
                    orations. In 1828 the fourth-day-July was celebrated by public speaking in
                    nearly all parts of Indiana. Here are some of the toasts–
                    "The Day We Celebrate," "
                        Washington
                    ," "The Sages and Heroes of the
                    Revolution," "The Cause of Liberty," "
                        Greece
                    ," "The Present Administration of the General
                    Government," "The American System,"
                    "Internal Improvements," "The Spirit of the
                    Times," "Indiana," "The New
                    Purchase," "The Army and the Navy." In 1830, some of
                    the toasts were "The Day–The brightest and most glorious in
                    the annals of freedom," "Gen. George Washington–the
                    name conveys sufficient meaning," "The Heroes of the
                    Revolution–may their fame be as immortal as the struggle was
                    glorious," "Charles Carroll–the only survivor of
                    the noble band who signed the Declaration of Independence," etc., etc.
                    This was at a period in our history when, at least once a year, there was a
                    feast of patriotism and a flow of patriotic oratory–a holiday that
                    should by all means be revived.
            In pioneer days toasts were the usual mode of expressing thought and sentiment.
                    They were emphasized in various ways, such as–"Six cheers
                    and one gun," "four cheers and one gun,"
                    "six cheers and two guns," "standing in
                    silence," "three cheers," etc. In those days in
                    southern Indiana political discussions and polemic societies were conducive to
                    offhand oratory with perhaps equal parts of logic and noise. Political
                    processions came into general use in the campaign  of 1840, and an accomplished orator was a dangerous
                    opponent. In pioneer days a cheap politician was called a
                    "rabble-rouser." The word explains itself, when separated
                    exactly in the middle. Mr. Proffit was nearly the opposite of a cheap
                    politician, but he knew human nature and he could hand out compliments with the
                    skill of an artist. A few of the pioneer voters could spit tobacco into either
                    eye of the family cat contentedly sleeping, with its back to a fireplace, ten
                    feet distant, for there was a lot of plain living and some high thinking going
                    on at the same time, in many a log cabin along the banks of the drowsy, sleepy,
                        Patoka river, that beavers' paradise of gentle
                    curves and graceful meanderings. The inhabitants felt honored at being
                    designated and appealed to as taxpayers, American patriots and citizens, holding
                    the destiny of a nation in the hollow of their hands. Mr. Proffit knew cabin
                    life as well as that of 
                        Washington
                    . He had touched life on many sides, and was in sympathy with the
                    needs, hopes, and ambitions of our pioneers, but patriotism was his pole-star
                    after all; politics the means to an end.
            In those early days a barbecue was a free-Avill offering on the altar of
                    patriotism or politics, a great outdoor feast of the very fat of the land. The
                    stump-speech system of electioneering was prevalent. It came to the Pocket from
                    the south. Its peculiar advantages over the convention system of the east gave
                    it a preference for many years. It was a school for offhand orators, and many of
                    the statesmen of eighty years ago learned how to speak in the old-time political
                    campaigns. In pioneer days, strong men like Mr. Proffit often went into public
                    life from an inward call and a love of the highest distinction, often to the
                    sacrifice or injury of their health or fortune. Distinction was the reward. In
                    those days it was not exactly the caprice of fashion, not the accident of high
                    rank, and not a distinguished social position that established a man's
                    reception in a community–to do that it usually took his politics, or
                    his position on some great state or national issue.
            The Van Buren marker, at 
                        Plainfield
                    , and the Van Buren Hill near 
                        Brazil
                    , are amusing reminders of the days of early travel over the old
                    Cumberland road. Mr. Proffit was a strong advocate for the completion of the
                    Cumberland road, the great  national highway
                    through Indiana, and on February 8, 1840, wrote the Spirit of
                        '76, a Whig paper of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , blaming the Van Buren adminitsration for lack of support to the
                    great highway. On the 14th of June, 1840, Mr. Promt wrote the same paper
                    denouncing Tilghman Howard, the Democrat candidate for governor of Indiana, for
                    leaving his seat in congress to look after his political fences at home, while
                    bills for the up-keep of the road were pending in congress. In the Spirit of '76, under dates of July 11 and 18, of the year
                    1840, may be found Mr. Promt's speech, delivered in the house of
                    representatives, at 
                        Washington
                    , on April 27 of that year. It is on the general appropriation bill.
                    It is a severe indictment of Van Buren's administration, and is
                    probably "loaded seven fingers."
            Near the opening of his speech Mr. Proffit says: 
                        It required no stretch of intellect to perceive that the order had gone
                            forth to vote down every proposition of the minority; and, sir, up to
                            this hour, that order has been most implicity obeyed. It comports not
                            with my taste to describe the tumult, the legislative depravity, the
                            utter recklessness which I have here witnessed. It has been but a
                            combination of the disgraceful scene with which our sitting opened; and
                            it is now lamentably palpable that a congress which commenced in
                            revolution, riot, and anarchy, must terminate in disorder and disgrace,
                            etc.
                    
            
            The speech is a long one, and a severe one. In closing, Mr. Proffit said: 
                        I take no pleasure in criticising the course of my government; I know the
                            fallibility of human nature. I regret being compelled to show my
                            fellow-citizens the corruptions of their government. I regret that this
                            corruption exists. I am sorry that the necessity is forced upon me to
                            take any thing like a prominent position in denouncing the conduct of
                            the administration. I know that a faithful discharge will draw down the
                            execrations and base calumnies of the administration presses; our
                            motives impunged; public course misrepresented; private character
                            assailed; 'life's life lied away.' But, sir,
                            I, for one, will pursue my course with the same defying spirit which
                            animated the poet when he exclaimed!
                        
                            "As little as the moon stops for the baying Of wolves, will
                                the bright muse withdraw one ray From out her skies–then
                                howl your idle wrath! While she still silvers o'er your
                                gloomy path."
                        
                    
            
            
            On May 14, 1840, in one of Mr. Proffit's speeches in congress he said he
                    did not pretend to be very orderly in congress himself. Thus began the
                    presidential campaign of 1840, with Mr. Proffit making the keynote speeches
                    which were of great assistance in winning the fight for "Tippecanoe and
                    Tyler, too," and for which services it is thought Mr. Tyler about two
                    years later rewarded Mr. Proffit with an appointment to 
                        Brazil
                    , but the senate was so hostile to Mr. Tyler, and perhaps to Mr.
                    Proffit, that it did not confirm the appointment: Mr. Proffit was severe in his
                    denunciation of Van Buren's administration, almost to the extent of an
                    iconoclast. He supported General Harrison as a hero worshiper would, in the days
                    of old.
            On December 22, 1840, in the house of representatives, at 
                        Washington
                    , Mr. Proffit submitted a resolution calling for $450,000
                    to be expended on the national road in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                     in 1841. He then "in a very animated manner, foretold the
                    direful consequences which he had alleged would ensue, in case the house should
                    not make the appropriation. He declared that: 
                        The eight states of the Northwestern Territory would unite, and in their
                            indignation would make their way into the hall to obtain their rights by
                            force. He could not conceive why the people of that part of the 
                                Union
                             should be so treated. The south got appropriations for its
                            Dismal Swamp, and everything else; so, also, did the north; but as for
                            his people, and those of the other northwestern states they could obtain
                            nothing. 'Why!' said he, 'are the people of
                            the West to be thus trampled upon? Mr. Proffitt also discoursed on the
                            grievances of the Western people arising from other causes. He then
                            touched upon nullification, the tariff question, etc., and concluded by
                            giving the House a solemn warning, that in case the resolution should be
                            rejected, the people of the northwest would rise in their might when
                            thier indignation would be an all consuming blaze, without a particle of
                            smoke, which would destroy all that was not right.
                    
            
            Mr. Proffit could well have said to the 
                        New England
                     members: 
                        Be strong-backed, brown-handed, upright as your pines; By the scale of a
                            hemisphere shape your designs.
                     for Mr. Proffit did so shape his own designs. During the days when
                    Webster, Calhoun, Benton, Hayne, and 
                        Clay
                     were in the senate, and the subtreasury bill was under serious
                    consideration  many ugly threats were made by
                    the southern and western leaders and when reminded of it, they pointed to the
                    ugly record of 
                        New England
                     in the War of 1812, with its Hartford convention, resolutions,
                    etc., as the school in which they had learned how to threaten the disruption of
                    the Union. When reminded of her selfish attitude in the War of 1812, 
                        New England
                     may well hang her proud head in shame. Mr. Proffit was using the
                    Yankee talk, argument, or reasoning, as well as the southern, when he predicted
                    a northwestern revolt, unless the national road was given more financial aid.
                    The south and west learned their line of reason and talk from the scholarly and
                    elite 
                        New England
                    , but happily all such talk ended with the Civil war of 1861.
            President Tyler vetoed several important bills. This caused much ill feeling
                    between the president and those of the Whigs who still believed that a 
                        United States
                     Bank was an absolute necessity. All the cabinet officers resigned
                    except Daniel Webster, (whom General Harrison had made secretary of state), for
                    Webster had started on the great negotiations with 
                        England
                     over the boundary line between 
                        Maine
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . Webster tried his utmost to prevent the break between Tyler and
                    the Whigs. Webster said it would ruin the Whig party, and help neither the bank
                    nor the country. Henry Clay exhausted his power of ridicule and sarcasm in
                    denouncing Mr. Tyler. Whig newspapers attacked Mr. Tyler and prominent Whigs
                    denounced him. Mr. Proffit remained faithful to the president. The Massachusetts
                    Whigs, in 1842, in their convention, declared a final separation of the party
                    from President Tyler. It was the beginning of the end of the Whig party. Some
                    Whigs left the party; the party left some Whigs.
            At one time during a discussion about the northeast boundary of 
                        Maine
                    , Mr. Proffit objected to the cost of the surveys but he withdrew
                    his objection when informed three lines were to be surveyed. The present
                    boundary as adjusted by Daniel Webster was the middle line. Mr. Proffit was not
                    inclined to "twist the lion's tail," as was often the
                    case in those days, but usually by a cheap grade of politicians.
            In July, 1840, the house had before it the case of Lieutenant Hooe, concerning
                    the enlistment of negroes, or other colored 
                    persons in the service of the army or navy of the 
                        United States
                    . It seems the conduct of a president in this case did not meet with
                    Mr. Proffit's approval. Mr. Proffit said he was unqualifiedly opposed
                    to the admission of the testimony of colored persons against white men. He
                    approved fully of the laws of the state of Indiana, which provided that no
                    negro, or mulatto, or Indian, or even the quarter-blood, should be admitted as
                    evidence against white persons. He considered the conduct of the president in
                    the case of Lieutenant Hooe as an insult not to be pardoned by any southern man
                    and a direct attack upon the institutions of the south, etc.
            On Monday, August 23, 1841, in the house, Mr. Proffit said: 
                        He believed the Whig party was not to be found in these halls; they were
                            to be found at the plough-handles and in the workshops. The Whig party
                            succeeded, by the addition of the old Jackson men, who wished to reform
                            the abuses of the administration. He compared a vetoed bill, which was
                            concocted in the senate to make great men–to make
                            presidents–to a limping animal that stalked up the avenue
                            with a leg of brass and a leg of wood, and finally died with the
                            "Botts." He said he belonged to the
                            corporal's guard; and, if the member from 
                                Virginia
                             would permit him, he would march as the humblest member of
                            the forlorn hope. He thought the president (Mr. Tyler) should have a new
                            cabinet; and if he were asked when, he should say NOW. If the present
                            members went out of their own accord, so much the better. He went
                            against Mr. Clay with sorrow, but he never could have Mr. Clay for his
                            president. He felt the chains upon his wrists now; he did not feel them
                            when he advocated Mr. Clay's cause before the people for
                            thirteen long years. He said the name of the bill would be changed
                            before it was passed, and he should not be surprised if its authors
                            stole the title of the much abused Sub-Treasury bill for it. Mr. Proffit
                            defended the president (Mr. Tyler) with eloquence, and to the fullest
                            extent.
                    
            
            On Tuesday night, August 24, 1841, a full length effigy of John Tyler was
                    displayed from a pole in one of the principal streets of 
                        Vincennes
                     because in the exercise of a power vested in him by the
                    constitution he vetoed the bill chartering a bank of the 
                        United States
                    . Politically, Mr. Proffit fell for his friend John Tyler.
            Mr. Tyler's elevation to the presidency, through the death of General
                    Harrison, was America's first lesson–yet not
                    learned–of the danger of being careless in naming a vice-presidential
                    candidate. Mr. Tyler's administration would have been a most
                    distressing failure had not Daniel Webster 
                    remained his secretary of state until he completed his boundary treaty with 
                        England
                    ; then A. P. Upshur, who signed Mr. Proffit's passport, in
                    time, became Mr. Tyler's secretary of state. Mr. Proffit was before the
                    public at a time of great unrest. Sectional interests were slowly dissolving
                    party lines. The symptoms of the approaching dissolution of the Whig party were
                    clear, but the travail that was to bring into life the Republican party had not
                    yet come to pass. Mr. Proffit was one of the star speakers in the defeat of
                    President Van Buren and the election of Harrison and Tyler. It is to be
                    remembered that Mr. Harrison died soon after his elevation to the presidency,
                    and that Mr. Tyler became president. Mr. Tyler's administration did not
                    meet with the approval of many eastern Whigs, but Mr. Proffit defended him; thus
                    Mr. Proffit became the victim of an enfilading fire from the Van Buren Democrats
                    and the eastern Whigs–some of the very men his vicious attacks upon
                    the Democrats had helped to elect. He proved to be a foeman worthy of their
                    steel, as the records of congress conclusively prove. He insisted upon their
                    votes being recorded on all questions of party policy.
            On March 11, 1842, in an address before congress, Mr. Proffit said: 
                        He was endeavoring to do something to relieve the country and to restore
                            the state of the currency. He was for the country; he was determined in
                            the words of 
                                Washington
                            , to have no party but this country. If the gentlemen chose
                            to keep up an angry party denunciation, in which he admitted that he had
                            himself too much indulged in the times past, they could do so; but for
                            him–as he grew older he grew wiser. The Whigs had told the
                            people they would endeavor to allay these party dissensions, and pour
                            oil upon the troubled waters; they were pledged to this, and he was
                            resolved to perform it.
                    
            
            On March 18, 1842, in the house: 
                        Mr. Proffit spoke of the bitterness of party spirit at the present
                            session, and the acrimony with which the executive and his supporters on
                            this floor had been attacked; and, added, that many of these gentlemen
                            who had been the most violent in their denunciations, had been seeking
                            office from him.
                    
            
            Mr. Proffit regretted but little had been done by congress. Among other things he
                    said: 
                    
                        Looking, sir, on the political struggles which have agitated and still
                            continue to agitate, this country, names more often than things causing
                            the rally, it is painful to witness the bitter fruits of error
                            committed. No question of domestic policy settled, no particular
                            principle finally established, everything seems to be the sport of the
                            hour, or of the majority temporarily in the ascendant, etc.
                    
            
            In closing this address Mr. Proffit said: 
                        We wish to forget party and think of our country, and our country only.
                            We feel deeply and sensibly the delicate position we occupy, situated,
                            as it were, between two contending parties; but we honestly and firmly
                            believe in the correctness of that position, and will maintain it,
                            convinced that it is our duty to do so, as Republican
                        Representatives.
                    
            
            On May 4 and 19, June 10 and 30, and August 2, 1842, Mr. Proffit was faithfully
                    defending Mr. Tyler on the floor of the house, from attacks made by Whigs as
                    well as by Democrats. In a speech before the house, on June 18, 1842: 
                        Mr. Proffit gave his definition of a Locofoco, whom he considered as a
                            dissatisfied, discontented individual, willing and ready to tear down
                            all government, in the hope that something would turn up to his own
                            advantage. He thought there were Whig-Locofocos as well as Van
                            Buren-Locofocos–men who were always telling the people that
                            they were badly treated.
                    
            
            In 1840, 
                        Hanover county
                    , Henry Clay's native county, in 
                        Virginia
                    , gave a dinner in honor of Mr. Clay. At that dinner there was given
                    a complimentary toast to Mr. Proffit. The toast reads: 
                        George H. Proffit–surpassed by few in talent–by
                            none in honesty. His country's good has been his object,
                            irrespective of party.
                    
            
            The dinner was given at 
                  Taylorsville, Virginia
               , in the first half of 1840, at which time Mr.
                    Proffit had not"been in congress six months. During his first year in
                    congress Mr. Proffit delivered a speech before an audience of ten thousand at
                            
                  West Chester, Pennsylvania
               . Its effect may
                    be imagined for after the applause had subsided nine cheers were spontaneously
                    given by the assembly. The first year Mr. Proffit was in congress a
                    correspondent of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald, then a neutral paper, wrote his paper as follows: 
                    
                        For an hour and a half, Mr. Proffit kept the House convulsed with
                            laughter. He is decidedly original. He thinks exactly as no other man
                            ever thought or ever will think–as no other mortal ever can
                            think. He is a man of unquestionable talent; and, as a partisan, may be
                            ranked as the most ardent and rabid of the Harrison party. John Randolph
                            once said that he would walk a mile to kick a sheep; and I suppose that
                            Blr. Proffit would traverse the whole of the greater prairies of the
                            West to demolish a locofoco, as such; and yet few men possess, as a man,
                            better feelings than he does. He is always good natured and complacent
                            to all and as he possesses strong conversational powers, a ready, and a
                            rich store of wit, and a large fund of anecdotes, he is popular with all
                            parties. As a representative, he is industrious and attentive to the
                            interests of the people, and may be regarded by them as a faithful and
                            constant agent.
                    
            
            From the records of congress it appears Mr. Proffit was a fiery, extemporaneous
                    speaker, often on the floor and in tne heat of debate, but it does not appear
                    that he was ever charged with loquacity. He had done much to elect Harrison and
                    Tyler, who received 234 out of 294 electoral votes. Gen. Harrison was moderately
                    in favor of a bank; Tyler was opposed to a bank. Tyler was a Virginian and not a
                    Whig in its generally accepted term. He was a "state-rights"
                    Whig or Democrat, with emphasis on the compound adjective, and is now generally
                    recorded as a Democrat in our histories. This ticket was elected at a time when
                    the west was supplying presidential candidates and demanding serious
                    consideration. In a sense, Tyler was a Democratic tail to a Whig kite. Had
                    President Harrison lived out his term, it is apparent, Mr. Proffit would have
                    been very powerful in the councils of the party, but Mr. Tyler was not a very
                    popular president, and the burden of defending his administration fell upon such
                    men as Mr. Proffit, who were, to some extent, responsible for his election; thus
                    Mr. Promt's last term in congress was one of defending the president, a
                    task not in harmony with his aggressive spirit. President Tyler was a 
                        Virginia
                     "State-Rights Whig" who became a Democrat and is
                    probably best known as a negative statesman, who quarreled with the Whig
                    leaders, vetoed many bills, among them the fiscal bank bills and the protective
                    tariff bill (of 1842); opposed the Ashburton treaty and the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    ; and favored the Confederate cause of 1861, etc. In 1840, Mr.
                    Proffit carried Harrison's  banner,
                    and beat Tyler's drum; they were elected, but Mr. Tyler proved a hard
                    man to justify. The burden fell upon Mr. Proffit to an unusual extent.
            On January 10, 1843, in the house, Congressman Botts, of 
                        Virginia
                    , brought forward articles of impeachment against President Tyler,
                    who came from his own state. The vote stood 83 yeas and 127 nays. Thus it was
                    decided the president was unimpeached and unimpeachable. Mr. Proffit voted
                    against the impeachment of the president, but said: 
                        For his part, he would have been perfectly willing that the impeachment
                            should have gone on, as he would like to see the black silk gloves, and
                            other trappings of a court of impeachment, but he did not vote for the
                            resolution, because he did not believe in the truth of the charges, or
                            that they contained impeachable matter.
                    
            
            On Friday, March 3, 1843, the last day of his last term, Mr. Proffit, Mr. Wise,
                    and some others, were at the desk of Mr. Fillmore, chairman of the committee of
                    ways and means, examining the manuscript copy of a bill in care of Mr. Fillmore,
                    it being the only one to which the members had access. The chairman told them
                    they must take their seats. Mr. Proffit stood for a moment
                    evidently in great astonishment, and then said firmly "Sir, I will not take my seat." A great sensation
                    was instantaneously created, and much confusion ensued. A half dozen gentlemen
                    sprang to the floor and each addressed the chair. Some asserted positively that
                    Mr. Proffit was not out of order, and begged the chairman to bear in mind that
                    the house of representatives was not a school house. During the excitement
                    Congressman Oliver drew Mr. Proffit to his desk and succeeded in pouring oil on
                    the troubled waters, and the affair was allowed to terminate–with Mr.
                    Proffiit's congressional career. Those were ugly days in congress and
                    in one of his speeches in the house, Mr. Proffit told the speaker, if he could
                    not get protection from the speaker he would come prepared to protect himself.
                    In those days dueling was not uncommon and many men went armed.
            Mr. Proffit is perhaps better known as a Whig, refined, and with a great respect
                    for education and learning. Practically all the old eastern Whigs cultivated
                    dignity and its allied graces, but Mr. Proffit may not have been altogether an
                    extremist  along that line, at least, not to
                    the extent of arrogance. When you once thoroughly know an American gentleman,
                    you can easily recognize a Hoosier gentelman. Mr. Proffit was both.
            In 1843, President John Tyler, who filled out the unexpired term of William Henry
                    Harrison, and for whom Mr. Promt did heroic campaign work, appointed Mr. Proffit
                    envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary, to 
                        Brazil
                    . His sheepskin commission reads as follows: 
                        JOHN TYLER
                        PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                        TO GEORGE H. PROFITT Greeting:
                        Reposing special trust and confidence in your Integrity, Prudence and
                            Ability, I DO APPOINT YOU, THE SAID GEORGE H. PROFFIT, OF INDIANA, ENVOY
                            EXTRAORDINARY AND MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY of the 
                                United States
                             of America NEAR HIS MAJESTY, THE EMPEROR OF BRAZIL,
                            authorizing you, hereby, to do and perform all such matters and things
                            as to the said place or office doth appertain, or as may be duly given
                            you in charge hereafter, and the said office to hold and exercise during
                            the pleasure of the President of the 
                                United States
                             for the time being, AND UNTIL THE END OF THE NEXT SESSION
                            OF THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND NO LONGER.
                        SEAL of the UNITED STATES
                        In testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the 
                                United States
                             to be hereunto affixed.
                        Given under my hand, at the City of 
                                Washington
                            , the Seventh day of June in the year of our Lord one
                            thousand eight hundred and forty-three and of the Independence of the 
                                United States
                             of America the sixty-seventh.
                        By the President JOHN TYLER. H. S.
                                LEGARE
                  
                        Secretary of State ad interim.
                    
            
            When Mr. Proffit started for 
                        Brazil
                     he had a passport which read as follows: 
                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA DEPARTMENT OF STATE To all to whom
                            these presents shall come Greeting:
                        Know Ye, that the bearer hereof George H. Proffit, Esquire, a
                            distinguished citizen of the 
                                United States
                            , is proceeding to Rio de Janeiro,  in the character of Envoy Extraordinary and
                            Minister Plenipotentiary of the said 
                                United States
                            , near His Majesty the Emporer of 
                                Brazil
                            .
                        These are therefore to request all whom it may concern to permit him and
                            the persons of his suite, to pass freely without let or molestation, and
                            to extend to them all such friendly aid and protection as would in like
                            cases be extended to citizens and subjects of other Countries resorting
                            to the 
                                United States
                             in the lawful pursuit of their business.
                        In testimony whereof, I, A. P. Upshur, Secretary of State of the 
                                United States
                             have hereunto set my hand, and caused the Seal of this
                            Department to be affixed, this 19th day of July SEAL A. D. 1843, and of
                            the Independence of the 
                                United States
                             the sixty-eighth.
                        A. P. UPSHUR.
                    
            
            The original papers are in the archives of the Indiana University. With the
                    penetrating glance of a seer Mr. Proffit saw in the future, the end of the Whig
                    party, as such, and went over into' the camp of the Democrats as did
                    Mr. Tyler, when all was mist and uncertainty to the generality of his
                    contemporaries, and he paid the penalty for his independent judgment. The man
                    that makes a character worthy of history usually makes foes. History is usually
                    very kind to great men; biography is not always so kind. The dignity of history
                    and the truth of biography compel us to speak the language of humility when we
                    say that Mr. Promt's appointment to 
                        Brazil
                     was not confirmed by the 
                        United States
                     senate, and he was called home. Perhaps neither the president nor
                    Mr. Promt expected the appointment to be confirmed. Mr. Promt served as
                    miniister from June 7, 1843, until August 10, 1844.
            Senator Thomas H. Benton of 
                        Missouri
                    , hated President Tyler and all his friends. He seems to have had a
                    special dislike for Mr. Promt, who was one of President Tyler's most
                    trusted lieutenants. It is probable that Mr. Proffit had in some of his speeches
                    exposed to ridicule some of Benton's weaknesses, as the
                    latter's ability, however great, was immeasurably exceeded by his
                    vanity. This sort of man always afforded Mr. Proffit an irresistible subject for
                    the exercise of his power of ridicule. Doubtless he had exercised this more than
                    once at Senator Benton's expense. In his Thirty
                        Years' View, Senator Benton makes an incorrect statement when
                    he says Mr. Proffit was not received by the emperor of 
                        Brazil
                    . Read the following from Senator Benton's works: 
                    
                        At the ensuing session a rapid succession of rejections of nominations
                            took place. Mr. George H. Proffit, of Indiana, late of the House of
                            Representatives, was nominated minister plenipotentiary and envoy
                            extraordinary to the Emperor of 
                                Brazil
                            . He had been commissioned in the vacation, and sailed upon
                            his destination, drawing the usual outfit and quarter's salary,
                            leaving the principal part behind, bet upon the presidential election.
                            He was not received by the Emperor of 
                                Brazil
                            , and was rejected by the Senate. Only eight members voted
                            for his confirmation: Messrs. Breese, Colquitt, Fulton, Hannegan, King,
                            Semple, Sevier, and Walker. He had been nominated in the place of
                            William Hunter, Esq., ex-senator from 
                                Rhode Island
                            , recalled–a gentleman of education, reading,
                            talent and finished manners; and eminently fit for the place. It was
                            difficult to see in Mr. Proffit intended to supersede him, any cause for
                            his appointment except for his adhesion to Mr. Tyler.
                    
            
            Thus, Senator Benton squared things after Mr. Proffit's death for all
                    the ridicule Mr. Proffit may have heaped upon him in his campaign speeches, but
                    he had no reason for saying that Mr. Promt was not received by the emperor. The
                    details of his formal reception were well known to a number of people at 
                        Petersburg
                     who were living twenty or thirty years ago and who heard Mr. Promt
                    describe the ceremony very minutely. They were greatly amazed that Mr. Promt (a 
                        Pike county
                     merchant) was not much embarassed in being presented to an emperor,
                    but Mr. Promt was as Bill Nye said of Benjamin Franklin: "To him a king
                    was no greater than a seven spot."
            That Mr. Promt was very prominent in congress for a young member, however, is
                    revealed occasionally through Senator Benton's work; for instance, in
                    writing of the attempt to pass the national bank bill, in 1841, when the measure
                    had been vetoed by Tyler, and the attempt was being made to pass it in the House
                    over the presidential veto (an attempt which was opposed by Mr. Proffit and in
                    which he was successful, since the effort failed) Benton says: 
                        It was disapproved and returned to the House with a message stating his
                            objections to it, where it gave rise to some violent speaking, more
                            directed to the personal conduct of the President than to the objections
                            to the bill stated in his message. In this debate Mr. Botts, of 
                                Virginia
                            , was the chief speaker on one side, inculpating the
                            President; Mr. Gilmer, of 
                                Virginia
                            , and Mr. Proffit, of Indiana, on the other were the chief
                            respondent? in his favor
                    
            
            
            It is quite evident from Senator Benton's reference to it that this
                    debate was a very important one and attracted wide attention at the time. The
                    President still had a large number of powerful and very able friends in both
                    houses. The fact that Mr. Promt was put forward as one of the two chosen orators
                    and debaters to bear the brunt of the battle, selected from all the eloquent,
                    able, and brilliant men in the House who were still Tyler's friends, is
                    a tribute to his ability, that even his enemies could not ignore. Mr. Promt had
                    just passed his thirty-fourth birthday at the time of this debate. He was still
                    on his first term as a representative in congress.
            Senator Benton's reference to the fact that only eight senators voted to
                    confirm Mr. Promt's nomination as minister to 
                        Brazil
                     contains nothing of reproach to Mr. Promt personally, since these
                    were the eight who stood by Tyler to the end. Caleb dishing received but two
                    votes, all the others in the senate being cast against approval of his
                    appointment to an important post. At that time there were only about fifty
                    members in the senate.
            Sydney George Fisher, a well known biographical writer, in his The
                        True Daniel Webster does not write very complimentary of Senator
                    Benton, but classes him as a man of distorted views.
            Evidently Mr. Promt had sufficient grounds for attacking Senator Benton, and he
                    did it while the senator was living. Senator Benton was a relay speaker in the
                    long debates between Senator Hayne and Daniel Webster. Webster had to defeat
                    both of them and he did it with becoming grace and dignity. Here is a quotation
                    from one of Senator Benton's speeches: 
                        Every canal and every road tending to draw the commerce of the western
                            states across the Alleghany Mountains is an injury to the people of the
                            West. They must trade with 
                                New Orleans
                             and make that their great city.
                    
            
            Benton was opposed to the great national road through 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , etc. That was enough to destroy any community of interest between
                    him and Mr. Proffit, to say nothing of the senator's attempt to unite
                    the west with  the south. Senator
                    Benton's opinion of Mr. Proffit will not cause Mr. Proffit to lose any
                    friends.
            Naturally Mr. Proffit's adhesion to Tyler in the break with the Whig
                    party lost him many Whig friends locally and gained him few among the Democrats.
                    He was accused of deserting his party for the sake of office. Judge Foster, a
                    local Whig of great influence and prominence, always insisted that Mr. Proffit
                    had clung to Tyler with the expectation of receiving the appointment to 
                        Brazil
                    . At this day, this does not seem probable. Mr. Proffit seems to
                    have stood by Tyler from the very first when there could have been no immediate
                    hope or expectation of reward; and indeed no desire for such at the hands of the
                    President, since Mr. Proffit's ability would have brought almost any
                    office he may have desired within his reach, provided it was within the power of
                    his party to grant it. He was accused of having turned to be a Democrat, but as
                    he was not active after his return from 
                        Brazil
                    , his health having failed, it is problematical just what his stand
                    would have been. It is unthinkable that having attained the heights when most
                    men are just beginning a career, he would have thrown all away for the sake of
                    an appointment of any kind when the highest places in the land were open to him.
                    It is probable that he conceived it to be his duty to stand by the President and
                    did so until he was gradually estranged from his party. He became involved to
                    such an extent. in the bitter personal quarrels that followed, and was so goaded
                    on, that he reached the point where he had to stand with Tyler to the end.
            Apparently Mr. Proffit had been well received in 
                        Brazil
                    , and his recall home reminds us of the wisdom of old, "A
                    prophet is not without honor save in his own country and in his own
                    house." In 1841, when Mr. Proffit went over to the opposite party it
                    caused quite a disturbance among the Whigs in Indiana. He was not a
                    "Clay for President" man. In the Whig convention of May, 1844,
                    Mr. Clay was nominated, but he was defeated by the Democratic candidate, James
                    Knox Polk, of 
                        Tennessee
                    . In this 
                        Clay
                     campaign of 1844, the Whigs used to sing a song to the tune of
                    "Auld Lang Syne;" one stanza ran: 
                    
                        Leave vain regrets to errors past Nor cast the ship away– But
                            nail your colors to the mast And strike for Henry Clay.
                    
            
            This was the campaign in which Mr. Proffit could not, or did not,
                    "strike for Henry Clay."
            The word W-H-I-G (We hope in God) is a time honored English term for those who
                    opposed power and upheld the cause of liberty. In America, many men, whose sons
                    became Republicans, took the name Whig when they felt it their mission or duty,
                    to oppose what they termed the tyranny ol Andrew Jackson. Abraham Lincoln, the
                    great Republican, and greater American, became a Republican by the Whig route.
                    One of the most tiresome notions of pioneer political days was that "a
                    statesman must remain perfectly consistent from childhood to old age and never
                    change his opinions." Even unto this day some people hold to this
                    theory, not only in politics but in many other things. Such a doctrine is
                    usually an enemy to progress, since it practically rules out the intelligence
                    and the conscience of a candidate for office.
            Many pioneers who came from the south, soon became prominent forensic orators.
                    They did not always possess qualities essential in great lawyers, or deep
                    thinkers, but they were effective as public speakers on the political issues of
                    the day. From the Pocket the easy way to the open door of the world was by
                    whiskey, the rivers, and politics. When our local pioneers spoke of
                    "going to town," they meant to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Not a few of our early statesmen came here from 
                        Louisiana
                    , and much early business was transacted at 
                        New Orleans
                    . It was our early market, and thereby much Mexican silver was
                    brought to Indiana. Strange as it may seem, the Mexican dollar constituted the
                    larger part of the coin of the pioneers in 1837.
            Mr. Proffit was a man of ability and of serene soul. He was endowed with a
                    delightfully joyous nature. He radiated good cheer and did not live by his hates
                    alone. He was one of the best citizens of 
                        Pike county
                    . American born with American ideals, he cherished
                    America's traditions and honor. In the twilight of local history he
                    represented the noblest ideals of local American life. All his short years were
                    devoted to  serving the best interests of his
                    country and the local people. To every worthy movement he gave his encouragement
                    and support. How full is that page in the early history of Indiana when Mr.
                    Proffit was an orator! He had an air of confidence, success, and gaiety. His
                    features were sharply cut, refined, and delicate. The biography of this man is a
                    pioneer history of his district, a measuring-rod of pioneer politics and Hoosier
                    progress in southern Indiana. His name added not only a dignity and a spirit,
                    but also an orator to the political influence in the Pocket. Perhaps after all,
                    "the proper study of mankind is man."
            Some pioneers could be referred to as men of dress, judging from the records left
                    by them. In 1831, the law provided that the stocks of Indiana militia men had to
                    be made of black leather or silk. Among articles stolen from Andrew Porter,
                    owner of a boat in 1821, two miles below the mouth of Deer creek in 
                        Perry county
                    , were "a close-bodied black broadcloth coat with a black
                    velvet collar, a gold watch (cased as a hunting watch) and a yellow silk
                    handkerchief"–fairly good evidence of some style.
                    "Silk Shirt," a warrior of the 
                        Delaware
                     tribe of Indians lost several horses at an Indian encampment near 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1820. He advertised for their recovery in the Western Sun, June 24, 1820. If his mother followed the traditional
                    method in naming him, some settlers must have been wearing silk shirts at least
                    a generation before Mr. Proffit put in his appearance in southern Indiana. Even
                    in those days a voter could do what a candidate or a public official could
                    hardly afford to do.
            In the decade of the thirties men were far more particular about their personal
                    appearance than they are at present. In an advertisement at 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1836, are these items: 
                        Silk velvet, marseilles, and Valencia vestings; Italian silk cravats;
                            silk and linen handkerchiefs; gentlemen's silk, linen, cotton,
                            horseskin and beaver gloves; silk half-hose, silk and satin vests, silk
                            hats, etc.
                    
            
            In 1840, a well dressed gentleman wore blue broadcloth with plated gold buttons,
                    a buff vest, and a high hat.
            Mr. Proffit was never at a loss in the social duties of his day. By his friends
                    he was considered one of the finest gentlemen in Indiana, while those not his
                    friends, or not in sympathy  with his
                    political ideas, were inclined to say he was
                    "high-falutin"–a pioneer expression for
                    well-mannered or perhaps aristocratic people. Well may we take our hats off to
                    the ghost of any pioneer politician who escaped severe criticism. In the decade
                    of the thirties Governor Noah Noble was a very polished man. In the decade of
                    the forties, James Whitcomb, a Democratic nominee and a very polished man,
                    became governor; so we see Mr. Proffit was in his class with good manners. In
                    retrospect, we look in the mirror of history and biography, with pardonable
                    pride and pleasure upon this pioneer orator of the Pocket and perhaps wonder why
                    he came to southern Indiana. In his day thousands of flat boats, loaded with the
                    products of the Wabash valley, reached 
                        New Orleans
                     annually. Perhaps he came north to make his mark, or his fortune,
                    for the same reason that hundreds of young Hoosiers went west fifty years ago.
                    It would seem that of Mr. Proffit no citizen of 
                        Pike county
                     could think without pleasure or speak without praise. If there are
                    to be any paintings on the walls of the new temple of justice in that county
                    paintings of Mr. Proffit, Mr. Foster, The Old Fort, The Buffalo Trail, and
                    Abraham Lincoln moving to 
                        Illinois
                    , should find appropriate places. It would help local history
                    throughout all of southern Indiana. If I were a citizen of 
                        Pike county
                     I would ask permission to suggest this to the county commissioners.
                    The records of 
                        Pike county
                     show that Mr. Proffit was awarded the contract for the construction
                    of the first brick court house in the county, in the year 1834. This would
                    indicate that he was a man of means or good credit, when he was yet very young.
                    Mr. Simon Morgan, a grandson of Mr. Proffit, has an oil painting of Mr. Proffit.
                    Not many pioneers of Mr. Proffit's day were financially able to sit for
                    an oil painting though ever so crude.
            Along the vista of a century of local history there are high points and bright
                    lights. Mr. Proffit was a bright light in the wilderness of southern Indiana. He
                    was qualified by inherited aptitude, training, and education to be an orator,
                    and a leader of men. In 1836, General Harrison received 165 votes in 
                        Dubois county
                    . Van Buren received 127. In 1840, General Harrison also carried 
                        Dubois county
                    ; he received 264 votes to Van Buren's 239, and since then
                    only the Democratic  candidates for president
                    carried the county. In 
                        Pike county
                    , Harrison received 474 votes to Van Buren's 318. To Mr.
                    Proffit's efforts are due many of these Whig votes.
            As has been previously stated, Mr. Proffit died in 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . The 
                  
                            Louisville
                         Democrat, of September 8, 1847, in speaking of Mr.
                    Proffit's death said: 
                        The Hon. George H. Proffit, who has filled several important stations in
                            our country, died at the Comstock House about one o'clock, on
                            the night of the 6th. inst. He has been afflicted for some time, we
                            learn, and came to our city last Thursday for the purpose of procuring
                            further medical aid. This will be sad news for his family, as it did not
                            look for his death so soon.
                    
            
            This notice was copied by the Indiana State Sentinel, 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, and the Western Sun, and that seems
                    to have been the extent of the notices. At that time all these papers were using
                    column after column in explaining how Judge Embree came to defeat Robert Dale
                    Owen for congress, by 391 votes, in Mr. Proffit's old district. The
                    remains of Mr. Proffit lie buried in the Walnut Hills
                    cemetery, at 
                        Petersburg
                    . The inscription on the stone reads as follows: 
                        HON. GEORGE H. PROFFIT Born in the City of 
                        New Orleans, La.
                     , September 7th, 1807 Died in the City of
                                    
                        Louisville,
                                    Ky.
                     , September 7th,
                            1847 Aged 40 years.
                        He was frequently elected to the Legislature from the Counties of 
                                Pike
                             and 
                                Dubois
                            , was elected to Congress from the First Congressional
                            District in 1839 and re-elected in 1841; was appointed Minister from the 
                                United States
                             to the Empire of 
                                Brazil
                             in 1842. In all the various positions of Honor and Trust
                            which he filled he acquitted himself witH credit and honor and to the
                            entire satisfaction of his constituency and the government which
                            employed him.
                    
            
            The records of 
                        Pike county
                     reveal, in the petition of the widow for the setting aside to her
                    of her dower interest, that Mr. Proffit died the owner of 1,541 acres of land,
                    practically all of whiph was in the immediate vicinity of Petersburg, some of
                    which the town now covers. In addition to this he owned seven lots in the town
                    and two very valuable lots in the city of 
                        Evansville
                    . His personal estate was undoubtedly very large  for that day, since the settlement of other estates
                    show payments of interest, debts, etc., to Mr. Proffit. Mr. Proffit left as his
                    only heirs his wife and Emily; the latter married Good-let 
                        Morgan
                     a few months after her father's death and the estate was
                    settled out of court; that is, the personal estate was so disposed of. Mrs.
                    Proffit shared in Mr. Profit's estate under Indiana's first
                    constitution when a widow's estate was not under the more liberal laws
                    that appeared later through the efforts of Robert Dale Owen in behalf of the
                    women of Indiana.
            At the time of his death Mr. Proffit was one of the wealthiest men in this
                    section of Indiana. This was accumulated in the few years he was in 
                        Pike county
                    . He owned good property in the city of 
                        Evansville
                    . The property he owned at the time of his death would now be worth
                    a handsome fortune. Most of this was made in mercantile business and in trading
                    in land, although he did not hesitate to "take a chance." As
                    an evidence of this it is well known that he wagered $5,000 on
                    Polk's election and won the money. It was not regarded as any
                    "surething" either, owing to the great popularity of 
                        Clay
                    . Mr. Proffit would also bet on a horse race, or back his judgment
                    on a dog or cock fight. This sporting inclination was one of the secrets of his
                    great popularity with the pioneers. He drank, as did most men of his day, but
                    rarely to excess. Notwithstanding the fact that he mixed freely with the people,
                    took part in their sports, and occasionally drank with them, he seems to have
                    had a manner that let them know that while he could do these things, he was,
                    after all, not really one of them. They had this feeling and seemed to have
                    respected him for it. He was, after all, a southerner, with the southern
                    man's class ideas.
            While there seems to be no record that Mr. Proffit was educated especially for
                    the law, he practiced that profession to a limited extent in 
                        Petersburg
                    , and was unquestionably far above the average lawyer of that day in
                    ability and learning. However, the profession at that time did not offer great
                    prospects of financial return. The litigation was mostly trivial and small sums
                    only were involved. Goodlet Morgan, who married Miss Proffit, told the following
                    story about one of Mr. Proffit's experiences as a lawyer: 
                    
                        Mr. Proffit was engaged to prosecute a small civil suit before a local
                            justice of the peace. The justice was a man of decided views on all
                            subjects and one who made up his mind quickly. The evidence being in,
                            Mr. Proffit arose to make an argument for his client. The justice
                            promptly told him that it was useless to argue the case, that the
                            court's mind was made up and that he was going to decide the
                            case against Mr. Proffit's client. Mr. Proffit insisted on his
                            right to be heard until the court finally said: "Mr. Proffit,
                            the court has no objection to hearing you make a speech, but it is now
                            supper time, the evidence is in, and the court here and now decides the
                            case in favor of the defendent and against your client; the court will
                            be here at eight o'clock in the morning and so far as I am
                            concerned you may speak until sun-down and I will hear you. Court is
                            adjourned." Mr. Proffit, who was a man of violent temper, when
                            aroused, was making loud protests long after the justice had closed his
                            office and gone home to supper, but gradually the ludicrous side of the
                            matter dawned upon Mr. Proffit and he later enjoyed telling the story as
                            much as his hearers enjoyed listening to it.
                    
            
            Mrs. Mary J. Taylor, of Petersburg, who was fifteen years old at the time of Mr.
                    Proffit's death, was one of the play-mates of his two daughters. She
                    was in the Proffit home countless times. She says that when in good health Mr.
                    Proffit weighed about one hundred ten pounds. He was a charming man about home,
                    of perfect manners and idolized his family. He was gone much of the time and on
                    the occasion of his return his wife and daughters always gave a
                    "party" to celebrate the event to which the young folks, and
                    especially the friends of the girls, were invited. On these occasions Mr.
                    Proffit was always at his best, kept the girls in a high state of delight with
                    tales of his experiences as member of the legislature, member of congress, and
                    minister to 
                        Brazil
                    . His house was well furnished for that day. The entertainments
                    given were always a source of pleasure to the young. Mr. Proffit took special
                    pains to entertain the girl friends of his daughters, and soon made them feel
                    perfectly at ease in his presence. Mrs. Taylor remembers him thus as one of the
                    most charming men she ever saw. Mrs. Taylor also remembers his wife. She was
                    Miss Mahala Wyatt, daughter of John Turner Wyatt, a prosperous farmer of near
                    Petersburg, and was reputed to be the most beautiful girl of her day in this
                    section of the country. Her father lived on the road from Petersburg to 
                        Evansville
                    , and it was on one of his trips to 
                        Evansville
                     that Mr. Proffit first saw her. She retained her beauty almost to
                         the day of her death, which occurred
                    long after that of her distinguished husband. She had none of the education that
                    distinguished Mr. Proffit; yet for her he always manifested the strongest
                    affection. One of Mrs. Taylor's most vivid recollections of him is his
                    devotion to his wife and daughters. The daughters also had much of their
                    mother's beauty.
            Unfortunately Mrs. Taylor remembers little of the political life of that day. She
                    never attended a political meeting at which Mr. Proffit spoke, and says that
                    girls of her age, as a rule, did not attend political meetings in those days.
                    She does not remember exactly the way Mr. Proffit was brought home after his
                    death at 
                        Louisville
                    , but thinks it was overland on the old Buffalo trail to 
                        New Albany
                    . She distinctly remembers his death and says that the death of
                    Abraham Lincoln was the only other occurrence of the kind that ever caused so
                    much excitement in 
                        Petersburg
                     and vicinity. It seems that it was wholly unlooked for and
                    unexpected by the majority of people and even by his family. She naively remarks
                    that Mr. Proffit was regarded here as being almost as great as a president.
            Mr. and Mrs. Proffit were the parents of two daughters, Emily, who became the
                    wife of the Hon. Goodlet Morgan, and Amanda, who died at the age of nine years
                    and six months. All the members of the family are buried at Walnut
                        Hills cemetery at 
                        Petersburg
                    . An inscription on a stone reads: 
                        Amanda, second daughter of George H. and Mahala Proffit. Died September
                            18, 1845, aged 9 years, 6 months, and 3 days.
                    
            
            On February 1, 1848, an act of the General Assembly was approved which named
                    Mahala Proffit as adminisitratrix of the estate and also as guardian of Emily
                    Proffit.
            Some years after the death of Mr. Proffit his widow became the wife of John B.
                    Hannah, a man well known locally, and very prominent in the Democratic party of 
                        Pike county
                    .
            We may not have measured this man correctly, or have visualized him properly. We
                    have tried to make national facts shine through the surface annals of local
                    history and through the data of biography; and, to show the reasons for any
                    action or position Mr. Proffit took. Perhaps there are no hues so soft and
                    delicate as those with which the imagination invests that which is unseen or
                    only faintly seen, particularly so,  when one
                    takes no delight in being an iconoclast. Remoteness in time may have an
                    idealizing effect. The voice that comes from the dim chambers of the past may
                    have a subdued, softening influence, for it is a good practice to write the
                    shortcomings of men of the past upon the sands of the sea shore, if they must be
                    written at all, and let the waves wash them away. It seems almost as difficult
                    to say anything new of the old days as it is to say anything old of the new
                    days. If you doubt this, try it.
            In conclusion, we may as well recognize, that democracy places a heavier burden
                    on individuals than do many other forms of government; for that reason every
                    citizen of our form of government should know his local, state, and national
                    history; for, after all, history, like charity, should begin at home. Biography
                    is history with a soul. He who knows his history well, does not find much
                    trouble in judging where America should have stood in the World War, or where
                    she should stand now. It is unsafe for a state to produce ignorant men and
                    indifferent women. None should be ignorant of, or indifferent to, the high aims
                    and ambitions of America.
            Let us rake "embers out of the ashes of the past," and fan them
                    into a blaze to illuminate the present and throw a headlight into the future.
                    There are many embers of unsullied fame in southern Indiana. Shall they shine?
                    There were many good men during the mid-years of the nineteenth century whose
                    biographies we should compile for the help they may be to the future historian.
                    Old documents and papers taken from the blurred and scattered records of a
                    countryside, are often rich in a subdued splendor of historical data and human
                    interest.
            The power of this nation was made up, in part, by the generations of the past,
                    whose bodily forms long ago crumbled into dust beneath the bramble and the briar
                    of neglected burial grounds; but whose sentiments, spirits, and impulses move
                    on. Woodrow Wilson says: 
                        The history of a nation is only the history of its villages written
                            large. Local history is the ultimate substance of national history.
                    
            
            Poets, painters, and peers have pictured the passing pioneers in pleasing poetry
                    and polite prose; why can not we  ordinary
                    mortals try it? History mellows with age, and historians themselves soften in
                    their interpretations of men and of conduct. Some pioneers were leaders, great
                    local historical figures, whom their grandchildren may well study, analyze, and
                    admire. May the time soon come when the names of our pioneers will shine with
                    the reward that justly belongs to them; however, the illumination of the past
                    will not serve its best purpose unless its rays are able to penetrate into the
                    present and to bestow guidance and confidence for the future. Often a generation
                    will place an erroneous judgment upon contemporaneous men and events, and time
                    only will correct the injustice.
            Mr. Proffit's life was all too short, being only forty years to a day.
                    He died too young, but most men die at the wrong time. His political career is a
                    wonderful record of brilliant achievements, successes, and, in time,
                    adversities. In fewer than twenty years he advanced from bartering indigo for
                    mink skins at 
                        Petersburg
                     and 
                        Portersville
                     on the banks of White river, to being sent as
                    envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary by the president of the
                    greatest republic on earth, and being received by the emperor of the greatest
                    American empire at Rio de Janeiro, on the shores of the sea. It recalls to mind
                    the lines of the poet: 
                        Honor and fame from no condition rise, Act well your part, there all the
                            honor lies.
                    
            
             It may be said of Mr. Proffit, and of each of the other Hoosier pioneers
                    mentioned in this sketch: 
                         What lasting gratitude to them we owe! "Tis from their toils
                            our richest blessings flow, Illustrious men! though slumbering in the
                            dust, You still are honored by the good and just! Posterity will shed a
                            conscious tear, And, pointing, say, 'There sleeps a
                            pioneer.'
                    
            
            We have accomplished our purpose if we have, for a short time brought back the
                    pioneers to the very few yet living who knew them and have given some slight
                    basis for appreciation by those who knew them not.
            
            
               REFERENCES
               
                  Indiana House Journals, 1831-32-36-37-38.
               
                  Senate Documents, Volume 56" 937.
               
                  Early Trails and Sketches, O. H. Smith, 359, 360, 370.
               The original 
                            Brazil
                         commission and passport, at Indiana University.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Semi-Weekly Journal, issued September 4, 1841-2.
               Wilson, History of 
                                Dubois County
                            
                  , 168, 169, 258.
               
                  True Life of Daniel Webster, Sidney G. Fisher, 130, 131,
                        168, 173, 233, 237, 241, 251, 277, 279, 309, 385, 391, 400, 411, 415, 388,
                        389.
               Leavenworth Arena, June 14, 1838; June 6 and July
                        4" 1839; May 28, April 2, November 28, June 25, July 16 and July
                        23, 1840.
               
                  Modern Eloquence, Volume IX, 1199 and 1218.
               
                  History of 
                                Pike
                             and 
                                Dubois
                             Counties, 293, 305, 309, 338, 342, 566 and 590.
               Mrs. Kate Milner Rabb, A Tour Through Indiana in 18UO,
                        104, 169, 183, 322, 324, 325, 346, 349.
               
                  Free Enquirer, October 15, 1831, Common
                        Era, etc.
               
                  The Century Dictionary and Cyclopedia, IX, 1016.
               W. W. Woolen, Biographical and Historical Sketclies,
                        196, 200, 289, 308, etc.
               Dwight, History of the Hartford Convention, 355, 361,
                        etc.
               Extra State Gazette, June 10, 1842.
               
                  
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Gazette, September 2, 1847.
               
                  Indiana State Sentinel, November 15 and 22, 1842.
               
                  Spirit of '76, March 7, June 27, July 11 and
                        18, 1840.
               Webster's address on "Greek Independence."
               (The speeches of Webster, Benton, Hayne, Calhoun and 
                            Clay
                         show how closely related were the South and West about
                        1830-1840.)
               
                  The Western Sun, 1825-1850, September 14, 1839.
               
                  The 
                                Harvard
                             Classics, L, 465 and 466.
               
                  
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, September 11, 1847, page 2, column 2.
               
                  
                            Louisville
                        
                        Democrat, September 8, 1847.
               
                  The Western Sun, September 11, 1847, page 2, column 2.
               
                  Indiana State Sentinel, September 11, 1847, page 2,
                        column 1.
               
                  Congressional Globe, VIII, 396 and 526; IX, 48; X, 371;
                        XI, Part I, 1, 312, 339, 476, 617, 651, 699, 830; Part II, 254, 259; XII,
                        146, 395; Appendix, 1, N. E. Boundary Map.
               
                  Indiana Magazine of History. XVII, 48. Speeches of Daniel Webster, (A. L. Burt Co., N. Y.) "The
                        Greek Revolution," 121, 161; "The Reply to
                        Hayne," 347-444; "The Reply to Calhoun," 445-520.
               
                  Thirty Years View, Senator Thos. H. Benton, (Appleton
                        Co.) II, 341 and 630.
               
                  Gales and Seaton's Debates, VI, 115.
               
                  Local Laws of Indiana, 1847-1848, pp. 351, 352.
               Tyler Effigy–See Western Sun, August 28,
                        1841.
               Von Holtz, Constitutional and Political History of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , II, 420, 421, 424, 447 and 470.
            
         
         
         
            The History of the Know Nothing Party In Indiana
            CARL FREMONT BRAND,
                    A. M.
            
                    INTRODUCTION
                
            This study of the Know Nothing party was undertaken at the suggestion of Dr.
                    Logan Esarey at Indiana university. One of the most powerful movements in our
                    political history has received comparatively little attention from historians.
                    This may be due to two causes: first, it disappeared as suddenly and silently as
                    it arose, apparently having had but little permanent effect on our politics or
                    institutions; and second, the traces it left were few.
            It is a difficult task to write the history of a secret society from the reports
                    which become public. The newspapers of the time were full of Know Nothing news,
                    but it was the opponents of the order who were so anxious to publish anything
                    they could learn about it. Those who were favorable were pledged to secrecy and
                    pretended to know nothing at all about the organization. The result of this
                    situation is that the Know Nothings must be studied in a great measure from the
                    reports of their enemies.
            The records of the various councils would have been the best source, but they
                    seem in practically every instance to have been destroyed when the council
                    disbanded. It has been impossible to gain access to the private papers of Col.
                    Richard W. Thompson and other leaders of the party. Until these become
                    available, we will have to be content with the information that newspapers and
                    contemporary political literature can give.
            
                    THE ORIGIN
                        OF KNOW NOTHINGISM
               
                
            Political nativism in the 
                        United States
                     divides itself naturally into three periods. Until 1845 it was a
                    local movement confined largely to 
                        New York city
                    . In 1845 it entered the field of national politics, but died out
                    within a few years. Revived under the auspices of the Know Nothing order it
                    became national in 1854, but again after a brief existence it was stifled by the
                    intrusion of a larger issue. It is with the last phase of the movement that this
                    paper is concerned, but for a proper understanding of the subject a brief survey
                    of early nativism is necessary.
            Hostility to foreigners and Catholics dates back to colonial days, but as there
                    were few Catholics in the country and immigration was so small as to be almost
                    negligible, the opposition  was based upon
                    theory, rather than upon some ever present danger. After the Revolution a small
                    but steady inflow of Irish Catholics began, most of whom settled in 
                        New York city
                    . In 1786 the first Catholic congregation was organized there, the
                    members of which were mostly Irish, who, to the number of several thousand, were
                    settled in one district, forming a community noticeably apart from the native
                    born citizens.1 They soon became a factor in local politics.
            The naturalization question divided the first political parties. The Federalists
                    were strongly anti-alien. The first naturalization law, approved March 26, 1790,
                    required only two years' residence in this country. A few years
                    afterwards the Federalists extended the time to five years and in 1798 to
                    fourteen years. The Democratic party on the other hand was very favorable to
                    foreigners; in fact, it contained a very large element of naturalized citizens.
                    When the Federalists were overthrown in 1800 the naturalization period was
                    promptly reduced to five years (1802).2
            
            The earliest exhibition of hostility toward Catholics came on Christmas eve,
                    1806. In a riot between a crowd of Irishmen and some non-Catholics in 
                        New York city
                     a city watchman who attempted to interfere was killed by an
                    Irishman. Only the arrival of the authorities prevented a general sack of the
                    homes of the Irish Catholics.3 This isolated incident shows
                    how early there existed an antagonism directed against them. The next spring,
                    when some assemblymen were to be chosen, an "American ticket"
                    was put forward, the first attempt at a Native American organization.4 This ticket did not prove to be successful.
            For several years there was no further manifestation of the latent nativist
                    sentiment, but all the time the Catholic population became more and more
                    numerous until by 1826 they numbered twenty-five thousand in 
                        New York city
                     alone. The native born viewed this increase with alarm, which
                    resulted in the first-great attempt at organization. In 1834 a series of twelve
                    letters signed by "Brutus" appeared in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Observer. The real writer was Samuel F. B. Morse, 
                  
                     1 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                , 17.
                  
                     2 Cooper, American Politics, 54.
                  
                     3 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                , 18.
                  
                     4 Cooper, American Politics,
                        54.
               
                     later the inventor of the telegraph, who, in
                    a recent visit to Europe, had learned of the existence of the Leopold
                    Foundation, a Catholic organization intended to promote church expansion in
                    America. As the letters of "Brutus" voiced an alarm felt by
                    many, steps were taken toward the formation of an organization, which in July of
                    1835 received the name of the Native American Democratic Association. The
                    principles of the movement, as declared in its platform, were: opposition to
                    office holding by foreigners, to pauper and criminal immigration and to the
                    Catholic church on the ground that that church was a political machine.5 For the November elections of that year, 1835, the Whigs
                    united with the new movement, beginning an alliance that was to last throughout
                    the career of nativism in the state. But their combined forces were defeated.
                    The next spring Samuel F. B. Morse ran for mayor, unsupported by the Whigs, and
                    polled about fifteen hundred votes.6 In 1837 Aaron Clark,
                    supported by a combination of natives and Whigs, was elected by a plurality of
                    three thousand three hundred, together with a common council of the same
                    politics. But the nativist movement was ruined by the fusion, and absorbed by
                    the Whigs in the hour of victory.7
            
            For a number of years nativism again was inactive. Then in June, 1843, a new
                    organization was formed in 
                        New York city
                    , which, in February, 1844, took the name, American liepublican
                        Party.s In the spring election of 1844 this organization
                    succeeded in electing its candidate for mayor and the greater part of the city
                        council.9 The movement by this time had spread
                    throughout 
                        New York
                     state and similar organizations had been formed in
                            
                  Boston, Philadelphia, St.
                        Louis
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                    ; each of which cities, in 1844, elected in whole or in part, an
                    American Republican municipal government.10 In May and July
                    of 1844, the great Kensington and Southwark riots, a number of conflicts between
                    Americans and Irish, took place in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , which lost much sympathy to the cause 
                  
                     5 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                , 26.
                  
                     6 Scisco, Political Nativism in Neio
                                York, 29; Whitney, Defences of the American
                                Policy, 240, says nine thousand, evidently an exaggeration.
                  
                     7 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                , 31.
                  
                     8 Carrol, Great American Battle,
                            264. Whitney, Defence of the American Policy, 244.
                  
                     9 Carrol, Great American Battle,
                            265.
                  
                     10 Whitney, Defense of the American
                                Policy, 247-8.
               
                     of nativism.11 In the
                    November elections of 1844, the Americans again carried 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                    , electing mayors in both cities, and sending six representatives to
                    the twenty-ninth congress, four from the former city and two from the later.12
            
            The purposes of the American Republicans, as given in an appeal issued by their
                    executive committee of the city and county of 
                        New York
                     were as follows: 
                  To extend the time of naturalization (to twenty-one years).
                  To guard from corruption and abuse the proceedings necessary to obtain
                            certificates of naturalization.
                  So to instruct and form public opinion, as to give native citizens an
                            equal chance at least with foreigners to obtain office and lucrative
                            employment.
                  To prevent the exclusion of the Bible from the use of schools.
                  To prevent riots, the violation of our laws, the desecration of the
                            American flag and the shooting and murder of peaceable citizens when in
                            the exercise of their undoubted rights.
                  To resist any further encroachments of a foreign civil and spiritual
                            power, upon the institutions of our country.
                  To prevent all union of church and state.13
                  
               
                
            A convention met in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , July 4-7, 1845, to perfect a national organization. Fourteen
                    states were represented.14 The convention issued an address
                    and a declaration of principles and named the new party the "Native
                        American."15
            
            The Native American party, however, was a failure. Each year it declined. A
                    second national convention, scantily attended, met at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , then adjourned to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , in 1847, where Zachary Taylor and Henry Dearborn were recommended
                    for the presidency and the vice-presidency. But no campaign was made and the
                    Native American party passed out of existence.16
            
            
               
                  11 Lee, Origin and Progress of the
                            American Party in Politics, 42 et seq.
               
                  12 Cooper, American Politics, 54.
               
                  13
                        The Crisis, 8. Address of the Executive Committee of the
                        American Republicans of 
                            Boston
                        , 12. Proceedings of the Native American State Convention of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , 8, 15.
               
                  14 Indiana was represented but the names and number of
                        delegates are not stated. Lee, Origin and Progress of the
                            American Party in Politics, 229.
               
                  15 Whitney, Defense of the American
                            Policy, 252.
               
                  16 Whitney, Defense of the American
                            Policy, 256.
            
            
            The passing of the Native American party left the field open for a new factor in
                    American politics, the secret political society. There were many of these
                    associations, but two stand out above all others in importance, namely, the
                    Order of United Americans, commonly called the O. U. A., and the Order of the
                    Star Spangled Banner, the Know Nothing order.
            Of these the Order of United Americans was the first in the field. It was
                    organized in 
                        New York city
                    , December 21, 1844, and adopted the weapon of secrecy.17 Expansion was slow but steady. By 1850 chapters were
                    organized in 
                  Massachusetts,
                            New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut
               , and 
                        California
                    . In 1854-55 the order appeared in nearly all the western and
                    southern states.18 The O. U. A. was a social and beneficial
                    society, with no program of political conduct. The secrecy extended only to the
                    signs and ceremonies connected with its work. There was a uniform ritual for all
                    chapters, but there were no degrees.19 In government, the
                    chapters or local organizations were grouped into a State Chancery, which was
                    the legislative head, consisting of three delegates from each chapter. The
                    Arch-Chancery, in turn, was the national legislative head, consisting of three
                    delegates from each State Chancery. The presiding officer in each chapter was
                    called the Sachem. The 0. U. A. was thrown into the (background by the rise of
                    the Know Nothing order. It reached its height of prosperity in 1855, when it was
                    represented in sixteen states. After that date it declined rapidly.20
            
            The Native Sons of America was another society formed in December, 1844, in 
                        New York
                    .21 The United Daughters of America, organized
                    in 
                        New York city
                    , November 27, 1845, was a woman's auxiliary to the 0. U.
                        A.22 The Order of United American Mechanics originated
                    in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1845. Its purposes were: 
                        (1) Mutual aid and benevolence; (2) the reformation of the naturalization
                            laws; (3) to oppose pauper foreign labor.23
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  17 Carrol, Great American Battle,
                        252.
               
                  18 Whitney, Defense of the American
                            Policy, 258-264, 272.
               
                  19 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                New York
                            , 70.
               
                  20 Whitney, Defense of the American
                            Policy, 265-272.
               
                  21 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                New York
                            , 64.
               
                  22 Carrol, Great American Battle,
                        258.
               
                  23 Whitney, Defense of the American
                            Policy, 312. Carrol, Great American Battle,
                    258.
            
            
            The United Sons of America organized in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1845.24 Two societies, the Benevolent Order
                    of Bereans, and the American Protestant Association, were founded by
                    "Orangemen," protestant Irish whose antipathy to the Catholics
                    exceeded, if possible, that of the native born Americans.25
            
            The Order of the Star Spangled Banner, or Order of the Sons of the Sires of
                    '76, was conceived and planned by Charles B. Allen of 
                        New York city
                    , who had never been associated with any of the other nativist
                    societies. As early as 1849, he prepared his plan, but did not begin his work
                    until the next year. Drawing a little group about him, he formed a secret
                    organization whose qualifications for membership were far more restrictive than
                    the 0. U. A. Secrecy was specific and stringent. The plan of action was to
                    control, rather than to make nominations, by concerted action in favor of such
                    nominees of other political parties as might be agreed upon. It cost nothing to
                    acquire and hold membership. At first there was no stated place of meeting. A
                    private home or lodge room might be used.26
            
            After two years the little group numbered scarcely thirty. Then, under new
                    leaders, steps to increase the membership were taken, and a thousand new members
                    were secured in four months. Regular weekly meetings were instituted. This
                    reorganization took place in April, 1852.27 All this time
                    the existence of such an organization was entirely unknown to the general
                    public. In the local elections of 1852 and still more in 1853 it was able to
                    take a decided stand. Then, in the latter year, its existence first became
                        known28 and for lack of a better name was dubbed the
                    "Know Nothing Order" and under that name the Order of the Star
                    Spangled Banner continued its career.
            A revival of nativism came in the years 1853-54. The story of the imprisonment of
                    the Madiai family in Tuscany for reading the Protestant Bible, it was said,
                    roused the horror 
                  
                     24 Whitney, Defence of the American
                                Policy, 315.
                  
                     25 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                , 68.
                  
                     26 Carrol, Great American
                            Battle, 268. Whitney, Defence of the American
                            Policy, 281-2.
                  
                     27 Whitney, Defense of the American
                                Policy, 283.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 22, 1853.
               
                     of the Americans.29
                    Catholic bishops were said to be attacking the American non-sectarian school
                    system. In 1853 Father Alessandro Gavazzi, a priest and revolutionary, came to
                    America for the purpose of agitating against the Catholic church. He was
                    received in the same manner as Kossuth. On October 29-30 he spoke in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the evils of the Church of Rome, against Catholic schools, and
                    of the horrors of the Inquisition.30 At the same time, the
                    lack of tact of Bedini, papal nuncio to the 
                        United States
                    , who came to settle a dispute between the 
                        New York
                     archbishop and the members of the diocese, roused American
                        feeling.31 The thought that the ambassador of a foreign
                    prince should have power to settle disputes between Americans was repugnant to
                    most of our citizens.
            The Know Nothing Order, taking advantage of these circumstances, realized its
                    ambition of becoming national. A system of national, state and local councils
                    was adopted and other arrangements for a widespread and numerous
                        organization.32 The work of expansion was rapidly
                    carried out and by the early part of 1855, every state and territory in the 
                        Union
                     had been organized.33
            
            On May 14, 1854, a general convention met at 
                        New York city
                     in which seven states and the 
                        District of Columbia
                     were represented. It adjourned after making arrangements for a
                    fuller gathering later.34 On June 14 a Grand Council met in 
                        New York city
                     at which thirteen states were represented. 
                  
                     29 Whitney, Defense of the American
                                Policy, 95. The Sons of the Sires, 31.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 1, 1853.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 7, 1854. The Sons of the
                                Sires, 32.
                  
                     32 Whitney, Defense of the American
                                Policy, 283.
                  
                     33 The organization of the order in the several
                            states occurred in the following order, according to Whitney, Defense of the American Policy, 84. 
                                New York
                            , April 4, 1852; 
                                New Jersey
                            , April, 1853; 
                        Vermont, Maryland
                     , May, 1853; 
                                Connecticut
                            , July, 1853; 
                                Ohio
                            , October, 1853; 
                                Massachusetts
                            , November, 1853; 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , December, 1853; 
                                District of Columbia
                            , January, 1854; 
                                New Hampshire
                            , Indiana, February, 1854; 
                        Rhode Island, Maine
                     , March, 1854; 
                                Alabama
                            , April, 1854; 
                        Georgia, Illinois
                     , May, 1854; 
                                Michigan
                            , June, 1854; 
                                Iowa
                            , July, 1854; 
                        Kentucky, Wisconsin, North
                                Carolina
                     , August, 1854; 
                        Missouri, Louisiana, Oregon
                     , September, 1854;
                                    
                        South Carolina,
                                    Tennessee, Virginia, Delaware
                     , October, 1854; 
                                Mississippi
                            , November, 1854; 
                        California, Texas
                     , Fall 1854; 
                        Florida, Arkansas
                     , December, 1854; 
                                Minnesota
                            , May, 1855; 
                        New
                                Mexico, Kansas
                      and 
                                Nebraska
                             in 1855. See also 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Sept. 23, 1857; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 22, 1853; Hushville Republican, May 17, 31, 1854; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, June 7, 1S54; Carrol, Great
                                American Battle, 269-70.
                  
                     34 Carrol, Great American
                            Battle, 270.
               
                     The following officers were elected: 
                        James W. Barker, president, 
                                New York City
                            ; W. W. Williamson, vice-president, 
                        Alexandria, Va.
                     ; Charles D. Deshler,
                            corresponding secretary, 
                                New Brunswick
                            , N. J.; James M. Stephens, recording secretary, 
                                Baltimore
                            , Md.; Henry Crane, treasurer, 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ; John P. Hilton, inside
                            sentinel, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C; Henry Metz, outside sentinel, 
                                Detroit
                            , Mich.; Samuel P. Crawford, chaplain, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind.35
                  
                    
            
            On June 17, the delegates completed the organization of the order by adopting a
                    constitution and a new ritual.38 Under their hands the Grand
                    Council became a permanent body, holding jurisdiction wherever the order spread.
                    After making arrangements for a second Grand Council to be held at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , November 15, 1854, the convention adjourned.37
            
            The causes of the success of nativiism were due to (1) the increase in the volume
                    of immigration, and (2) the growth in power and influence of the Catholic
                    church.
            The increase in immigration, due to the potato famine in 
                        Ireland
                     and the political unrest in 
                        Germany
                    , presented a real problem to the 
                        United States
                    . This is shown by the following table:38
            
            
               
                  From 1790 to 1810
                  120,000
               
               
                  From 1810 to 1820
                  114,000
               
               
                  From 1820 to 1830
                  103,979
               
               
                  From 1830 to 1840
                  762,369
               
               
                  From 1840 to 1850
                  1,521,850
               
               
                  Total for the entire 60 years
                  2,722,198
               
            
            The following table shows the rapid increase during the first half of the decade
                    1850-1860: 
                  
                     From June 1, 1850 to Dec. 31, 1851
                     558,000
                  
                  
                     In the year 1852
                     375,000
                  
                  
                     In the year 1853
                     368,000
                  
                  
                     In the year 1854 (estimate)
                     500,000
                  
                  
                     Aggregate for four and one-half years
                     1,801,000
                  
               
                
            
               
                  35
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 18, '54. Carrol, Great American Battle, 271.
               
                  36
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 18, 1854. 
                            Carroll
                        , Great American Battle, 271.
               
                  37
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 18, 1854.
               
                  38
                        The Sons of the Sires, 189. The Crisis,
                        15-23. Appendix to Congressional Globe, 33 Congress, 2
                        Session, 51.
            
            
            The assimilation of such a mass of an element entirely different from the native
                    stock threatened the homogeneous-ness of the people, which was considered
                    essential to a permanent nationality.39 The pauper and
                    criminal element among the immigrants was believed to be large. The states of
                    Europe were thought to make a regular practice of ridding themselves of their
                    undesirables by paying their passage to America. 
                        The commissioners of the poor in 
                                England
                             recommend that Parliament pass an act authorizing the
                            different parishes in 
                                England
                             to raise money for the purpose of sending the most vicious
                            and worthless of their parishes–such as are
                            irreclaimable–out of that country to this!
                     Such is a passage quoted from Niles Register.
               40 Such charges may or may not be true, but it is certain
                    that they were made often and with great effect.41 It is
                    also certain that the proportion of paupers and criminals among the foreign born
                    was much larger than among the native born.42
            
            The immigrants remained a class apart, forming their own settlements and
                    retaining their own habits and customs, many of which were repugnant to the
                    Americans. The lax observance of the Sabbath customary on the continent shocked
                    our people in a day when Puritanism was still a strong sentiment. The foreigners
                    had their own political associations, societies, militia companies and clubs.43 Their liberal views upon the liquor question won the
                    enmity of the "
                        Maine
                     Law" men, for the temperance movement was then at its
                    height. It was felt that the foreigners were the rumsellers, and were the most
                    active in the opposition to the proposed reform.44
            
            
               
                  39 Whitney, Defence of the American
                            Policy, 69.
               
                  40
                        The Crisis, 24.
               
                  41
                        The Sons of the Sires, 68. Carrol, Great
                            American Battle, 107. The Crisis, 24-34. 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, Feb. 15, 1855.
               
                  42
                        The Crisis, 28. Whitney, Defence of the
                            American Policy, 180, 358.
               
                  43 Whitney, A Defence of the American
                            Policy, 175, gives the following as the articles in the platform of
                        a German society in 
                     Richmond, Va.
                   (summarized).
                     a. Abolition of all neutrality. Intervention in favor of every
                                people struggling for liberty.
                     b. Reform in religion; abolition of laws for the observance of the
                                Sabbath; of prayers in Congress, of oath upon the Bible.
                     c. The establishment of a German university and instruction in the
                                German language.
                     See also, 
                                    Logansport
                                
                                Journal, June 24, July 15, 1854. The
                                    Crisis, 50-55.
                  
               
               
                  44
                        
                            Brookville
                        
                        Indiana American, June 16, 1854.
            
            
            But it was the political activity of foreigners that gave the natives the
                    greatest cause for alarm. The catering of politicians to secure their vote was
                    notorious. Candidates for office were chosen for their availability to catch the
                    foreign vote. 
                        If he had an ear "for the sweetness of the German accent and the
                            richness of the Irish brogue" he was put upon the course of the
                            presidential race.45
                  
                     The naturalized citizens held the balance of power between the two old
                        parties.46 They cast over a quarter of a million votes
                    in 1852, in an election in which a change of thirty-nine thousand votes would
                    have elected 
                        Scott
                     instead of Pierce.47 Kossuth once said to some
                    German-Americans: 
                        You are strong enough to effect the election of that candidate for the
                            presidency who gives the most attention to the European cause.48
                  
                     A large portion of the foreign vote was venal. The native born felt
                    that an element foreign in origin, ignorant and irresponsible, and secret in its
                    character, cast the deciding vote in the elections.49
            
            The Know Nothings tried to make it clear that they bore no enmity to foreigners
                    as such and did not desire to deprive them of their rights.50 Representative N. P. Banks of 
                        Massachusetts
                     expressed this on the floor of the House: 
                        I bear no enmity to foreigners ∗∗∗ But if they hold as the
                            supreme head of secular power the Pontiff of Rome, and consider that he
                            can in any case absolve them from their allegiance ∗∗∗ to the 
                                United States
                            
                            ∗∗∗ if they
                            understand that their interests are separate from those of American
                            citizens, if they take direction from their spiritual guides in
                            political matters, and by preconcerted and private arrangements, form
                            associations, and make parties of their own, seeking to obtain and hold
                            the balance of power, throwing their weight first into one scale and
                            then into the other ∗∗∗ they will force upon American
                            citizens the alternative either to make similar combinations against
                            them, or to abdicate the seats of political power.51
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  45
                        The Sons of the Sires, 46.
               
                  46
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Union, Sept. 1, 1857.
               
                  47 Appendix to Congressional Globe.
                        33 Congress, 2 Session, 52.
               
                  48 Whitney, Defence of the American
                            Policy, 338.
               
                  49
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, Dec. 6, 1854. 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, March 16, 1856.
               
                  50
                        The Sons of the Sires, 116. 
                            Brookville
                        
                        Indiana American, May 11, 1855.
               
                  51 Appendix to Congressional Globe,
                        33 Congress, 2 Session, 62.
            
            
            The more conservative opponents of the Know Nothings recognized this fact.
            
                    Were foreigners to discard the dictation of self-appointed leaders among
                        themselves, abandon their own national organizations, disregard all causes
                        which bound them together or separated them from one another in the old
                        country, we confidently believe that we should no longer hear of Know
                        Nothing or Native American politics.52
               
                
            The second great cause of nativism was the fear engendered in the minds of
                    Protestant Americans by the growth of the power and influence of the Catholic
                    church. The growth of that church may be seen from the following table:53
                    
                  
                     
                     1808
                     1855
                  
                  
                     Bishops
                     2
                     40
                  
                  
                     Archbishops
                     0
                     7
                  
                  
                     Priests
                     68
                     1,704
                  
                  
                     Missionary stations
                     0
                     678
                  
                  
                     Churches
                     80
                     1,824
                  
                  
                     Ecclesiastical institutions
                     2
                     37
                  
                  
                     Colleges
                     1
                     21
                  
                  
                     Female academies
                     2
                     117
                  
                  
                     Adherents
                     very few
                     2,500,000 (in 1851)
                  
                  
                     Papal provinces
                     0
                     7
                  
               
                
            The hierarchical system of the Catholic church with its infallible head roused
                    the fears of the native Protestants for the safety of their free institutions.
                    Romanism was believed to suppress intelligence, adjudicate by the inquisition,
                    muzzle the press and forbid discussion, favor absolutism and pronounce liberty
                    of conscience a wicked heresy.54
            
            
                    There is not in the annals of mankind, any example of such perfect despotism,
                        exercised not only over monks shut up in the cells of a convent, but over
                        men dispersed among all the nations of the earth.55
                
            The increase of purely Catholic societies, schools, and colleges set them apart
                    from other citizens. Of all their associations the Jesuits were the most feared.
                    "When Jesuitical conjurers ∗∗∗ follow ∗∗∗ it behooves us to organize even
                    secret societies."56 The whole Roman system was
                        
                  
                     52
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, June 21, 1854.
                  
                     53 Whitney, Defence of the American
                                Policy, 116-17.
                  
                     54 Whitney, Defence of the American
                                Policy, 95.
                  
                     55
                            "Sam", or the History of a Mystery,
                            533.
                  
                     56 Rushville Republican, May 17,
                            1854.
               
                     looked upon as a great conspiracy to ensnare
                    Protestant America. The Koman schools were regarded as designed not so much to
                    promote education as to make converts to popery.
            
                    The papal conspiracy is represented to be of a far more insidious character
                        than has been surmised, ∗∗∗ we fear the story is not without
                            foundation.57
               
                
            The Roman church was believed to be an active political agent, still insisting on
                    its mediaeval claims of temporal supremacy over every nation and people of the
                    earth. Under the organization of the Jesuits the Catholic vote was presumed to
                    be cast solidly for the candidate most favorable to them.58
                    In 1852 both parties had bid for the foreign and Catholic vote. The question
                    seemed to be, which of the two candidates and of the two parties was most
                    favorable to the Catholics and foreigners.59 A purely
                    Catholic political ticket was not unknown. In 1841 a separate ticket was
                    nominated by a mass meeting of Irish Catholics in 
                        New York city
                    . The purpose of this "Carrol Hall" ticket was to
                    rebuke the Democrats. The result showed that the balance of power lay in their
                        hands.60 Reflecting on the activity of the church and
                    the attitude of the old parties, the native Protestants thought that the Roman
                    church was striving directly to establish its temporal or political power in the 
                        United States
                    .61
            
            
                    THE BEGINNING
                        OF
                        THE KNOW NOTHING
                            MOVEMENT
                        IN INDIANA
                        AND
                        THE CAMPAIGN
                        OF 1854
                
            The secret work and ritual of the society which afterward came to be called the
                    Know Nothings seem to have been brought to Indiana in the month of February,
                    1854, when the first lodge was organized at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in 
                        Dearborn
                    
                    
                  
                     57 Rushville Republican, May 17,
                            1854.
                  
                     58 Appendix to Congressional
                            Globe, 33 Congress, 2 Session, 52. The Crisis,
                            72-80.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 1, 10, 13, 1852; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, June 16, 1854; The Sons
                                of the Sires 46. 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Union, Sept. 1, Oct. 8, 1857.
                  
                     60 Carrol, Great American
                            Battle, 263.
                  
                     61 Whitney, Defense of the American
                                Policy, 71.
               
                     county.1 The
                    organization spread rapidly, penetrating every part of the state, but all the
                    while keeping its movements shrouded in the utmost secrecy. During March and
                    April it reached the towns of southern Indiana, local organizations being formed
                    at Versailles,2
                    
                        Madison
                     and 
                        New Albany
                    . By the end of spring its mysterious presence was felt in the towns
                    of central and northern Indiana.
            The details of the organization of the society cannot be told fully, for the
                    traces it left were few. None of the organs of public opinion were openly used
                    to advance its propaganda. From curious, enigmatical posters in 
                        Lafayette
                     the uninitiated could surmise that the Know Nothings were abroad in
                    their city.3 Diamond shaped pieces of paper scattered about
                    on the streets of 
                        Madison
                     and even pasted on the door of the Courier office
                    were the only intimation that the society was at work there.4 The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Journal said: 
                        Is there a Know Nothing wigwam among us? No doubt exists that regular
                            meetings of the society are held here from time to time. Tney are banded
                            together in opposition to naturalized citizens, especially to those of
                            the Catholic faith.5
                  
                    
            
            Democratic editors were especially active in their attempts to expose the
                    progress of the order. "We understand that a
                        'Wigwam'6 of the Know Nothings was
                    established in town last night," said the Rushville Jacksonian. "It is a rehash of Native Americanism, gotten up
                    on such a scale that Whig politicians can follow their instinct by joining
                    without being exposed." The Republican, replying in a
                    manner common to those editors favorable to the Know Nothings, accused the
                    Democrat of being the real Know Nothing, saying: 
                  
                     1 Whitney in A Defence of the
                                American Policy, 284, makes the statement that the order was
                            introduced into Indiana by the formation of a state council in Feb.,
                            1854. This is undoubtedly a mistake as it is positively stated in Know
                            Nothing sources that the state council of June 11-12, 1854, was the
                            first. He probably had the date of the organization of the first lodge
                            in mind. See the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 18, 1854, Aug. 9, 1860; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 81, 1856; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Nov. 2, 1855.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, April 7, 1854.
                  
                     3
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, April 25, 1854.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, June 7, 1854.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, June 14, 1854.
                  
                     6 The proper term is "council".
                            The O. U. A. was organized into "wigwams" or
                            "lodges" and in popular speech these terms were
                            frequently applied to the Know Nothing councils.
               
                    
                    
                        We understand he went to 
                                Indianapolis
                             for the purpose of joining, although we don't know
                            anything about it, more than that his instincts would naturally lead him
                            that way.7
                  
                     The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Enquirer, denouncing the Know Nothings bitterly, announced
                    their appearance in that city in June. The 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune, now becoming recognized as very favorable to Know
                    Nothingisrn, retorted that such abuse would make the order rapidly increase.8 "Like an ill-omened bird of night," said
                    the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Democratic Pharos, giving an account of the organization of a
                    branch there, "this society, afraid to meet the light of day, and
                    honestly avow its purpose, holds its gatherings in secret."9
            
            The Know Nothing question held a leading place of interest in the newspapers of
                    the time. Editors favorable to the movement, although they invariably denied all
                    connection with the organization, commented with obvious pleasure upon its
                    vigorous and rapid progress. The "old line" Democratic
                    editors, fearing the approach of this new secret political association that had
                    already become such a powerful factor in the east, printed anything that tended
                    to discredit the movement or to expose its proceedings.
            The name of no man of prominence is connected with the extension of the order
                    over the state. The work was accomplished by obscure men. Not many politicians
                    were willing to identify themselves with such a movement while it was in its
                    infancy, although they were willing enough to make use of it when its political
                    strength began to be revealed. Judge William J. Peaslee, president of the
                    council at Shelbyville, was actively engaged during the spring and summer of
                    1854 in organizing subordinate councils throughout central Indiana.10 Samuel Brown, of 
                        Boone county
                    , was prominent as an organizer in his own district.11
            
            Quietly the Know Nothings worked their way throughout the state until they were
                    numbered by thousands. By May, 1854, three months after their appearance, one of
                    the national leaders, Lewis C. Levin, of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , boasted that 
                  
                     7 Rushville Republican, May 3,
                            1854.
                  
                     8
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, June 20, 1854.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, June 24, 1854.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, Oct. 5, 1854.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Lebanon
                            
                            
                        
                                    Boone County
                                 Pioneer, Sept. 15, 1855.
               
                     thirty thousand names were on the rolls of
                    Indiana "wigwams;" enough to constitute the deciding factor in
                    future elections.12 With a rapidity unequalled in our whole
                    political history their progress continued until by July they could claim a
                    membership of sixty thousand and were still daily increasing in numbers.13 They were proportionately strongest in the southern part
                    of the state. In 
                        Dearborn county
                     they claimed a majority; in the city of 
                        Madison
                     alone the number was variously estimated at from five to twelve
                        hundred.14 The old "Burnt District"
                    (then the Fifth congressional) soon became a Know Nothing stronghold. At least
                    three councils were located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the northern part of the state Know Nothingism never gained so
                    firm a foothold, yet in the one county of LaPorte there were five subordinate
                        councils.15
            
            A brief survey of the political situation in Indiana in 1854 here becomes
                    necessary. Parties were in a state of flux. The Whigs, as an organization, had
                    practically ceased to exist after their disastrous campaign of 1852. They had
                    largely drifted into the ranks of the Know Nothings. The Free Soil movement, at
                    its height in 1848, had had its vote cut in half in 1852, but still obtained
                    strong support in central and northern Indiana. The radical Abolitionists were a
                    mere handful, but, because of their activity, they exercised an influence far
                    out of proportion to their numbers. The "
                        Maine
                     Law" temperance men were an important factor in politics
                    although the agitation was not at the high pitch of a few years previous.
            The 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill, which passed the House March 22, 1854, split the Democratic
                    party. The major portion, the "Old Liners," remained true to
                    their party affiliations and followed the lead of Pierce and the administration.
                    A smaller fraction, whose antipathy toward the extension of slavery overcame the
                    strength of their party ties, severed relations with the Old Liners and became
                    known as Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats.
            
               
                  12
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 27, 1854.
               
                  13
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, July 17, 1854.
               
                  14
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, Juno 14, 1854.
               
                  15
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Nov. 5, 1854.
            
            
            This same situation existed throughout the north. These diverse elements of the
                    opposition united for the campaign of 1854 in nearly all the northern states.
                    This movement marks the birth of the Republican party, although in 1854 it
                    received that name in but a few states. In other states fusion tickets known as
                    People's or Anti-
                        Nebraska
                    , were formed, the various elements of the opposition uniting on the
                    common ground of enmity to the further expansion of the slave power.
            In Indiana as elsewhere there was a movement for a Fusion or People's
                    party. The Know Nothings, perhaps the strongest of all the elements of the
                    opposition but not strong enough to run a ticket of their own, determined to act
                    with the Fusionists, to control the whole movement and to direct it in their own
                    interests. In this they were merely following the usage of their brethren in the
                    eastern states when the party was weak there. As a result their program was
                    carried out with astonishing success, for during the entire canvass of 1854 the
                    invisible machinery of Know Nothingism governed the Fusion
                    movement–its nominations, its active organization and its
                        campaign.16
            
            A state convention was called for July 13, 1854, by the Fusionists to meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for the purpose of uniting on a common People's ticket.
                    The Know Nothings, now that a sufficient number of councils had been organized
                    to hold a state council, secretly decided to hold their state convention at the
                    same place on July 11-12.1T Their next step was to secure
                    control of the election of delegates to the Fusion convention. In this they
                    succeeded. Probably three-fourths of the Fusion delegates chosen were Know
                        Nothings.18 The men thus openly elected to the Fusion
                    convention were then secretly nominated by the Know Nothing county councils to
                    their own convention. Thus it happened that the members of the state council
                    secured control of the People's convention.
            The Know Nothings engaged the Masonic hall for July 11, 12 and 14.16 The windows were blinded and an attempt 
                  
                     16 Turpie, Sketches of My Own
                            Times, 153; 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, July 28, 1855; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 24, 1855.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, July 20, 1854.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 27, 1854. "
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 12, 1854.
               
                     was made to keep the proceedings secret, in
                    which they were quite successful for the time being, although one of the younger
                    editors of the Sentinel, Mr. Austin H. Brown, climbed upon a
                    small building in the rear of the hall and succeeded in identifying several
                    members before he was detected and dislodged from his position.20
            
            Among the well known delegates were Godlove S. Orth, Godlove O. Behm, and W. G.
                    Terrel, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , the latter the editor of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal; Judge William J. Peaslee, of Shelbyville; Reuben A.
                    Riley, of 
                        Greenfield
                     (father of James Whitcomb Riley); Dr. James N. Ritchey, of 
                        Franklin
                    ; Milton Gregg, editor of the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune, and Rev. Lucien W. Berry, president of Asbury
                    University. The exact number of delegates present is unknown but the hall was
                    said to be crowded.21 A complete council would have
                    consisted of one delegate from each county council. Judge Peaslee was president
                    of the council.22 Many other prominent politicians connected
                    with the Fusion movement found business in 
                        Indianapolis
                     while the Know Nothings were in session but disclaimed any
                    connection with them. 
                        Seeing a crowd going into Masonic hall, thinking it was an anti-
                                Nebraska
                             meeting, went in too, and we were seen coming out, for the
                            very good reason that we were not allowed to stay in; but if the very
                            respectable men and good citizens we saw in the hall and left in it were
                            Know Nothings, we have no objection to be called one.23
                  
                     Berry Sulgrove, editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, was present at the convention and wrote blandly that
                    it was only a caucas of anti-Nebraskaites, which was no doubt the truth but not
                    the whole truth.24
            
            Details of the proceedings are lacking. The first session was held on the
                    afternoon of July 11, at which time a state constitution was reported and
                    adopted, along with a ritual and a set of rules and regulations.25 As these documents are discussed 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 15, 1854, Aug. 9, 1860; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, July 21, 1854.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, July 21, 1854.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 13, 1854.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, July 19, 1854.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 15, 1854; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, Aug. 1, 1855.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Sept. 18, 1854.
               
                     in the following chapter and are given in
                    the appendix, they will not be dealt with here.
            The council nominated a state ticket which the Know Nothings planned to have
                    renominated by the convention of the 13th and appear as if brought out by the
                        latter.26
            
            The officers elected for the ensuing year were:27
                    
                        President, Godlove S. Orth, 
                                Lafayette
                            ; vice-president, J. H. Cravens, 
                        New Marion, Ripley
                                    county
                     ; secretary, Rev. Samuel P. Crawford, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; treasurer, E. H. Barry, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; chaplain, Rev. James Havens, Rushville; mashall, Elias
                            Thomasson, 
                                New Albany
                            ; sergeant-at-arms, John T. Wallace, Bowling Green.
                    
            
            On the 13th this board of officers drafted a set of orders.28
                    This ended the work of the first Know Nothing state convention.
            The People's convention met July 13. Many of the delegates to the secret
                    conclave of the Know Nothings now took their seats in the People's
                    convention. All the various elements of the opposition, the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrat, Whig, Free Soil, Abolition, 
                        Maine
                     Law and Know Nothings, were represented. The Fusion papers however,
                    refrained from mentioning the Know Nothings as forming a factor. They did not
                    care to have that known. The convention organized by electing Thomas Smith, of 
                        Ripley county
                    , a former Democrat, president, with a number of vice-presidents and
                    secretaries which included men of all the factions.29 A
                    leading Know Nothing, Dr. James Ritchey, was one of the vice-presidents. A
                    committee on resolutions was appointed, on which Judge Peaslee acted.
            The one common object which had brought them together and which united them,
                    namely the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, was expressed in a platform of resolutions; a more
                    radical minority report of George W. Julian being voted down.30
            
            
               
                  26
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, July 27, 1854; 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, Oct. 7, 1854; 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, Aug. 1, 1855.
               
                  27
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 18, 1854.
               
                  28 See appendix.
               
                  29
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, July 15, 1854.
               
                  30
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, July 22, 1854. For this slight Julian never
                        ceased denouncing the Know Nothings.
            
            
            The convention then proceeded to renominate the following ticket slated by the
                    Know Nothing conclave, as though it was being brought out spontaneously.31 The party affiliations of each as given are taken from
                    the Sentinel.
               32
            
            
                    For secretary of state, Erasmus B. Collins, of 
                            Dearborn county
                        . (Free Soil, 
                            Maine
                         Law, Know Nothing.)
                    For auditor of state, Hiram E. Talbot, of 
                            Putnam county
                        . (
                            Maine
                         Law, Know Nothing.)
                    For treasurer of state, William R. Nofsinger, of 
                            Parke county
                        . (Free Soil, 
                            Maine
                         Law.)
                    Judge of the supreme court, Samuel B. Gookins, of 
                            Vigo county
                         (Whig, Free Soil, 
                            Maine
                         Law.)
                    Superintendent of common schools, Prof. Caleb Mills, of 
                            Montgomery county
                        . (Whig, Free Soil, 
                            Maine
                         Law.) n
            Recommending this ticket to the people of the state, the convention adjourned,
                    feeling that the work of uniting the many factions of the opposition was well
                    under way.
            This ticket and the method of its nomination did not please the more radical
                    anti-slavery men, such as George W. Julian, but both the platform and ticket
                    were suitable to the Know Nothings. Julian says of the convention: 
                        The platform, however, was narrow and equivocal, and the ticket nominated
                            had been agreed on the day before by the Know Nothings, in secret
                            conclave, as the outside world afterward learned.33
                  
                    
            
            Also in his Raysville speech, July 4, 1857, he said: 
                        The Know Nothings were pleased (in 1854) not only because they liked the
                            platform but because the state ticket publicly nominated at the same
                            time had been formed by the order in secret conclave the day before, as
                            the outside world has since learned.34
                  
                    
            
            Julian denounced the Know Nothings in the bitterest invective, and did not want
                    them in the People's party. In his Recollections he
                    says: 
                        Pretending to herald a new era in politics in which the people were to
                            take the helm and expel demagogues and traders from the ship, it reduced
                            political swindling to the certainty and system of a science. 
                        
                           31
                                    
                                        New Albany
                                    
                                    Tribune, Aug. 1, 1855.
                        
                           32
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, July 22, 1854.
                        
                           33 Julian, Recollections, 144.
                        
                           34 Julian, Speeches,
                                    130.
                     
                             It drew to itself, as the great
                            festering center of corruption all the known rascalities of the previous
                            generation, and assigned them to active duty in its service. It was an
                            embodied lie of the first magnitude, a horrid conspiracy against
                            decency, the rights of man, and the principle of human brotherhood.35
                  
                    
            
            He was also the principal exponent of the conspiracy theory, the belief of the
                    abolitionists being that the whole Know Nothing movement was created by southern
                    slave holders for the sole purpose of diverting popular interest from the
                    anti-slavery agitation into a new and, less dangerous channel.
            
                    Its birth, simultaneously with the repeal of the 
                            Missouri
                         Compromise, was not an accident, as any one could see who had
                        studied the tactics of the slave holders. It was a well-timed scheme to
                        divide the peoples of the free States upon trifles and side issues, while
                        the South remained a unit in defense of its great interest. It was the
                        cunning attempt to balk and divert the indignation aroused by the repeal of
                        the 
                            Missouri
                         restriction, which else would spend its force upon the
                        aggressions of slavery; for by thus kindling the Protestant jealousy of our
                        people against the Pope, and enlisting them in a crusade against the
                        foreigner, the South could all the more successfully push froward its
                        schemes.
                    On this ground, as an anti-slavery man, I opposed it with all my might from
                        the beginning to the end of its life.36
               
                
            To the believers in the conspiracy theory, the opposition of the Know Nothings to
                    foreigners appeared as an attempt to discourage immigration to the north, and
                    thus prevent the north from outstripping the south in population. They saw the
                    invisible hand of the slave holding aristocracy of the south attempting to
                    preserve the political equilibrium of the sections.37
            
            The more moderate anti-slavery men were alarmed at the rise of Know Nothingism,
                    fearing that it would crush out the anti-slavery movement in the north.38 Horace Greeley foresaw that while it would temporarily
                    divert public opinion from the slavery question, it did not contain enough
                    elements of permanence to be dangerous. As he said: 
                  
                     35 Julian, Recollections, 140.
                            It evidently failed in part of its duty with respect to demogogues.
                  
                     36 Julian, Recollections, 141.
                  
                     37 Ft. Wayne Standard, April 19,
                            1855.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Dec. 9, 1854
               
                    
                    
                        It would seem devoid of the elements of persistance as an anti-cholera or
                            an anti-potato-rot party would be.
                     The 
                        Maine
                     Law temperance men also believed that Know Nothingism was inimical
                    to their own movement.39
            
            To the views of the northern radicals it is interesting to oppose those of the
                    southern Democrats. To the latter the movement in the north was Abolitionism in
                    a very thin disguise. Representative O. R. Singleton, of 
                        Mississippi
                    , said on the floor of the House: 
                        They are all Free Soilers or Abolitionists ∗∗∗ Show me a single
                            resolution passed by them in a subordinate lodge, or in Grand Council,
                            which repudiates Abolitionists, or Abolition sentiments, or expresses a
                            willingness to acquiesce in the provisions of the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             act, or the fugitive slave law.40
                    
            
            The "Old Line" press in the north also tried to stigmatise the
                    movement as an abolition order, or at least controlled by an abolition
                        majority.41
            
            The true attitude of Know Nothingism toward slavery was not expressed correctly
                    by any of the views given above. The order in its primitive character and
                    purpose wished to ignore entirely the issue of free soil and slavery, which it
                    considered to be sectional.42 Know Nothingism, on the other
                    hand, they wished to make a national issue.
            
                    The American organization is not a local institution; it extends east, west,
                        north and south, and an entire repudiation of everything like abolitionism
                        was necessary to preserve its integrity and unity. This independent
                        nomination (i. e. Ullman for governor of 
                            New York
                        ) therefore, is a guarantee to our southern friends that
                        whatever the parties of the North may do, the patriotism of the masses knows
                        no distinction between North and South.
                
            Their theory was correct. As long as the slavery question was rapidly dividing
                    the political parties, the churches and the 
                        Union
                     itself into opposing camps, the Know Nothings could not commit
                    themselves to one side or the other and remain national.
            
               
                  39
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Dec. 9, 1854.
               
                  40 Appendix to Congressional Globe,
                        33 Congress, 2 Session 267.
               
                  41
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Nov. 4, 1854.
               
                  42 Whitney, Defence of the American
                            Policy, 298; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Dec. 18, 1854; Appendix to Congressional Globe, 34 Congress, 1 Session, 1192.
            
            
            But Know Nothingism in Indiana did not quite conform to this theoretical
                    non-committal position. In the councils of central and northern Indiana, both
                    the leaders and the rank and file were men with strong opinions on the slavery
                    question. Only in the southern portion were the "national"
                    Know Nothings in a majority. Thus in 1854 the state organization was controlled
                    by men with free-soil views. Throughout its brief history the fortunes of the
                    Know Nothing movement in Indiana were largely determined by its relations with
                    the anti-slavery element.43
            
            The Democratic party held its state convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 26, 1854. Already the strength of their new secret foe was
                    known and feared. The following resolution, aimed at the Know Nothings, was
                    introduced by Dr. B. F. Mullen, a Roman Catholic: 
                        That the Democracy of Indiana, still adhering to the constitution of the
                            Confederacy, openly and avowedly condemn any organization, secret or
                            otherwise, that would aim to disrobe any citizen, native or adopted, of
                            his political, civil, or religious liberty.44
                  
                     It passed without opposition. The Journal commented
                    that though it did not fully understand the resolution it must be aimed at the
                    Know Nothings, "a set of gentlemen of whom every person talks and about
                    whom they 'Know Nothing'."45
            
            The Democrats made the campaign of 1854 chiefly against Know Nothingism. Governor
                    Joseph A. Wright attacked it severely, claiming in a speech at 
                        Indianapolis
                     that he had succeeded in breaking up sixty Know Nothing wigwams.
                    Ex-Lieutenant-Governor Jesse Bright, Dr. Graham N. Fitch, of 
                        Logansport
                    , and the other Democratic campaign orators handled the Know
                    Nothings very vigorously.46 They were called the
                    "party with one idea," the "dark lantern
                        party,'1 "owls,"
                    "birds of night," "midnight conspirators"
                    and such opprobrious terms.
            Since the principles of the party were secret its opponents could attack only its
                    secrecy and its manifest opposition 
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 1, 1854; Ft. Wayne Standard, Nov. 30, 1854.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, June 7, 1854; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, June 20, 1854; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 31, 1856; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, June 9, 1854.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 26, 1854.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal. Oct. 14, 1854; Apr. 21, 1858; Oct. 21, 1854;
                            Sept. 2, 1854.
               
                     to Catholics and foreigners. The secrecy of
                    the movement threw it open to many charges. It was un-American and was
                    preventive of a free and true expression of the voice of the people at the
                    ballot box.47 Secrecy gave an appearance of cowardice.
                    Instead of the heretofore frank, open methods of American politics, an unjust,
                    exclusive, anti-democratic means of gaining elections was adopted. The
                    anti-Papal program was construed as mere bigotry and the anti-foreign creed was
                    held to be unfair to the naturalized citizens.48
            
            The Whig party practically had ceased to exist by 1854. From its former ranks the
                    greater part of the Know Nothing strength in Indiana was recruited.49 The Free Soilers and 
                        Maine
                     Law men constituted a considerable portion. God-love S. Orth,
                    Richard W. Thompson, William K. Edwards, Schuyler Colfax and Solomon Meredith
                    were old Whigs. Besides there was a small percentage of Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats, of whom Will Cumback was the most conspicuous example,
                    in the Know Nothing councils.50 All the elements of the
                    People's party were represented in the movement. Yet many anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men, such as Oliver P. Morton, were repelled by their secret
                    measures, their opposition to the Catholic church and their desire to exclude
                    foreigners from the suffrage.51
            
            The tactics which the Know Nothings used to secure the nomination of their
                    candidates by the People's convention of July 13 were pursued in
                    district and local nominating conventions 
                  
                            
                        47 A comparison of the presidential vote of 1852
                                with that of 1856 proves conclusively that the major portion of the
                                Know Nothings in Indiana came from the ranks of the Whigs.
                                Buchanan's strength, allowing for the increase in
                                population in the four years, was practically the same as that of
                                Pierce in 1852. The Fillmore and Fremont vote combined equalled
                                approximately that cast for 
                                    Scott
                                 In 1852. The result in the following counties is
                                illustrative: 
                           
                              
                                            County
                                        
                              
                                            Pierce
                                        
                              
                                            Scott
                                        
                              
                                            Buchanan
                                        
                              
                                            Fremont
                                        
                              
                                            Fillmore
                                        
                           
                           
                              Clark
                              1812
                              1186
                              1950
                              492
                              1074
                           
                           
                              
                                            
                                                Floyd
                                            
                                        
                              1815
                              1328
                              1767
                              228
                              1262
                           
                           
                              
                                            
                                                Gibson
                                            
                                        
                              1127
                              942
                              1286
                              365
                              766
                           
                           
                              Lawrence
                              1113
                              1054
                              1126
                              480
                              660
                           
                           
                              Ohio
                              455
                              432
                              505
                              104
                              379
                           
                           
                              
                                            
                                                Orange
                                            
                                        
                              1022
                              747
                              1207
                              49
                              606
                           
                           
                              Switzerland
                              1147
                              1134
                              1121
                              228
                              1040
                           
                        
                     
                            The 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, Dec. 6, 1852, and Dec. 3, 1856; see also 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Sentinel, June 14, 1854, and Julian Recollections, 141.
                        
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 24, 1854.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 1, 1854; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, May 25, 1854.
                  
                     50 Rushville Republican, Aug.
                            30, 1854; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, Aug. 81, 1854.
                  
                     51 Foulke, Life of Morton, I,
                            43, 44.
               
                     throughout the state. The Democrats and
                    other opponents charged the Know Nothings at the time with making use of these
                    subtle means, and although the latter denied the facts at the time, they later
                    confessed to the truth of the accusation.
            
                    The same invisible power was found at work in the nomination and election of
                        congressmen in nearly every district in the State.52
               
                
            Mr. Cumback (in the Fourth district) was nominated by a Know Nothing convention
                    in the first instance, and we know that Mr. Slaughter, the candidate against Mr.
                    English in the Second district, was first nominated by a Know Nothing caucus.
            
                    We have no doubt every anti-Democratic candidate in the state, unless it be
                        Mr. Dunn, was brought out in the same manner ∗∗∗ Cumback, Holloway, Barbour, 
                            Scott
                        , Mace, Colfax, Brenton and Pettit are all Know Nothings.53
               
                
            In the "Old Burnt District" a Fusion convention met at 
                        Cambridge City
                    . The Know Nothings attempted to nominate Morton, but as he was not
                    willing to connect himself with their organization, they secured the nomination
                    of D. P. Holloway, editor of the Palladium.54
                Harvey D. Scott in the Seventh district was the nominee of a Know
                    Nothing convention in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , August 3, 1854.95 Thomas C. Slaughter, of
                    Corydon in the Second district was likewise chosen in secret conclave and
                    confirmed by a People's convention.86
            
            A call was issued by William J. Peaslee, chairman of the Sixth district Fusion
                    committee, for a convention to be held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , August 3, to nominate a candidate for congress. Messrs. J. P.
                    Chapman, former editor of the State Sentinel; William
                    Sullivan, and Lucien Barbour, were designated to procure a suitable place.57 It is interesting to note that three of these men at
                    least, Peaslee, Chapman, and Barbour, were prominent Know Nothings. Following
                    their usual 
                  
                     52
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, Aug. 1, 1855.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 21, 1856, Sept. 2, 1854.
                  
                     54 Foulke, Life of Morton, I,
                            42.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Oct. 6, 1854.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Sept. 2, 1854.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 22, 1854.
               
                     tactics the "dark lantern
                    party" secured the nomination of Mr. Barbour. During the campaign Mr.
                    Barbour and his opponent, Thomas A. Hendricks, made Know Nothingism the issue,
                    the one appealing to that sentiment as strongly as the other opposed it.58
            
            The same methods were followed in the counties. In 
                        Marion county
                     a ticket prepared by a secret Know Nothing meeting on September 16,
                    was ratified to a man by the Fus-ionists on September 20. Every man on the
                    ticket was claimed to be a member of the order.59 The
                    council of 
                        Wayne county
                     fixed up a ticket on September 16 that was introduced and
                    nominated, with two exceptions, by the People's convention at
                    Centreville, one week afterwards.60 The same thing happened
                    in 
                        Floyd county
                    .61 In 
                        Dearborn county
                     the People's convention nominated a ticket that had been
                    selected by a secret council of Know Nothings, even though in the meantime the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Register had secured possession of and published the names.62
            
            An insight into the political workings of the Know Nothing lodges at this time is
                    afforded by the minutes of the 
                        Milton
                     lodge, 
                        Wayne county
                    , which came into the possession of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Jeffersonian and were made public.63 An
                    entry dated September 8, 1854, records that a committee of three from each ward
                    was appointed "to attend to forming a ticket for corporation
                    officers." On September 15th it is stated that said committee
                    "reported the following ticket," etc. On the same date occurs
                    a most important entry which confirms the dictation to the People's
                    party by the Know Nothings in 
                        Wayne county
                     referred to above: 
                        On motion the Council went into the election of delegates to the County
                            Council, which resulted in the election of the following persons: Henry
                            Voglesong, E. Roberts, James L. Allen, and H. B. Sinks; County Council
                            to be held at 
                                Richmond
                             on the 16th of September.
                        On motion of Dr. Kersey, the delegates be instructed to use their best
                            efforts to promote the permanent interests of the organization.
                    
            
            
               
                  58 Holcomb and Skinner, Life of 
                                Hendricks
                            , 163-164.
               
                  59
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 21, 1854.
               
                  60
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Jeffersonian, June 21, 1855.
               
                  61
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger, Aug. 30, 1854; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 2, 1854.
               
                  62
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Oct. 7, 1854.
               
                  63
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Jeffersonian, July 5, 1855.
            
            
            The next entry, dated September 18th, reads: 
                        Council was called by the president, for the purpose of letting the
                            committee report the proceedings of the County Council which was held on
                            the 16th instant. They report the Council met, and appointed the
                            following officers: J. B. Dinsmore, president; Nim. H. Johnson,
                            vice-president, and that the greatest harmony prevailed. They then went
                            into the selection of a ticket for state and county officers which
                            resulted in the following: (Here follows what was called the
                            "People's Ticket" with two exceptions). Which
                            report was unanimously adopted, and the members agreed to support the
                            ticket nominated by the People's Convention on the 23d
                        inst.
                    
            
            Such was the procedure. First delegates were appointed to the council at 
                        Richmond
                    –a county council, hence similar proceedings must have
                    been transpiring in the subordinate councils all over the county. Next a special
                    meeting was called to hear the report of these delegates, which embodied as the
                    result of the main action of the county council the precise ticket, with slight
                    exceptions, introduced as original at the so-called People's convention
                    one week afterwards. Finally the 
                        Milton
                     council agreed to support the ticket nominated by the
                    People's convention of the 23d inst. five days before such convention
                    had any existence.
            In the light of such testimony there can be no question of the activity of the
                    Know Nothing machinery. Moreover such proceedings were not peculiar to Indiana.
                    It was the method of control planned by the founders of the order and had been
                    practiced elsewhere with great success.
            While there was no authorized publication of the Know Nothing platform the main
                    principles were beginning to be pretty well known. The following platform is
                    given by an organ of the Fusion party that was more than favorable to Know
                    Nothing principles: 
                  Repeal of all naturalization laws.
                  None but native Americans in office.
                  A pure American common school system.
                  War to the hilt on Romanism.
                  Opposition, first and last, to the formation of military companies
                            composed of foreigners.
                  The advocacy of a sound, healthy and safe nationality.
                  Hostility to all Papal influence, in whatever form, and under whatever
                            name.
                  American institutions and American sentiments.
                  
                  More stringent and effective emigration laws.
                  The amplest protection to Protestant interests.
                  The doctrines of the revered 
                                Washington
                             and his compatriots.
                  The sending back of all foreign paupers landed on our shores.
                  The formation of societies to protect all American interests.
                  Eternal enmity to all who attempt to carry out principles of a foreign
                            church or state.
                  Our country, our whole country, and nothing but our country.
                   And finally, American laws and American legislation, and death to all
                            foreign influence, whether in high places or low.64
                  
               
            
            Briefly, Know Nothingism professed to oppose and annul the influence of the Roman
                    Catholic church over the institutions and affairs of our country and to break up
                    the subserviency of American politics and politicians to foreign influence. Its
                    advocates asserted that they 
                        desired to return to the pure Americanism of the Republican Fathers, and
                            the administration of national affairs upon principles as understood by
                                them.65
                  
                    
            
            After the constitution of the grand council became known in the fall of 1854 the
                    object became definitely known, 
                        The object of this organization shall be to resist the insidious policy
                            of the church of Rome and other foreign influence against the
                            institutions of our country by placing in all offices in the gift of the
                            people, or by appointment, none but native born Protestant citizens.66
                  
                    
            
            The Know Nothings claimed to bear no enmity to foreigners as such, but only to
                    their misuse of the privileges given them here. This position is well stated in
                    a communication signed "Know Nothing" in the Journal.
            
            
                    We wage no war on the elective franchise of the foreigner. We oppose or
                        denounce no man's religion. We interfere with the right of no man,
                        native or foreigner, to "life, liberty and the pursuit of
                        happiness."
                    But we do oppose, and we will battle till we destroy, that accursed party
                        practice, which lays the institutions of our country at the feet of the
                        ignorant, the debauched, and the un-Americanized subject of any and every
                        European king. We do not think that a mere voyage across the Atlantic ∗∗∗ qualifies a man to
                        hold our offices, or make our 
                     
                        64
                                
                                    Brookville
                                
                                Indiana American, May 26, 1854; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, July 8, Sept. 2, 1854.
                     
                        65
                                
                                    Logansport
                                
                                Journal, March 15, 1856.
                     
                        66 See appendix. Constitution of the Grand
                                Council, Art. 3, Sec. 1. 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Sentinel, Sept. 18, 1854.
                  
                         laws or even to control us in doing
                        either. We want men to know our country, and its Constitution, to have some
                        stake, some home, some abiding place in it, and we have determined ∗∗∗ it shall be
                            done.67
               
                
            In Indiana the 
                        Nebraska
                     question clouded the Know Nothing issue. The congressional campaign
                    was fought out principally on this question. The party in the state as a whole
                    was heartily opposed to the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill although there were exceptions.68 The
                    temperance question aided in complicating the congressional campaign. Will
                    Cumback in a speech at 
                  Manchester, Dearborn
                    county
               , frankly declared he did not want the vote of any
                    foreigner, of any man who favored the 
                        Nebraska
                     iniquity, or who was opposed to the search, seizure, confiscation,
                    and destruction of all intoxicating drinks.69
            
            Mention has been made of the curiosity aroused by the mystery of the secret order
                    and the attempt to spy on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention. The attempts to discover and expose them have no
                    parallel in the history of our secret societies. Consequently the Know Nothings
                    had to take the utmost care to preserve the secrecy of their meetings. The
                    signal for a meeting was given by scattering bits of paper cut or colored in
                    such a manner as to designate the place and time.70 They met
                    usually in some secluded place, well guarded. In Bloom-ington while the council
                    was weak, they met in the midst of a field where there was a tall growth of
                    fennel. One lodge near 
                        Crawfordsville
                     had its headquarters in a deserted house in the woods.71 A lodge near Georgetown, bothered by espionage, met at
                    night in a cornfield. Finding themselves surrounded by eavesdroppers one night,
                    at a given signal they suddenly put out the lights and charged their unwelcome
                    visitors who fled and troubled them no more.72
            
            A series of exposes73 was the result of this espionage upon
                        
                  
                     67
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 21, 1854; see also 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, June 21, 1854; 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, June 24, 1854.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Republican, Aug. 9, 1855; 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Sept. 6, 1854.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 29, 1854.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, June 7, 1854; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Mar. 18, 1854, April 5, 1855; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger, Apr. 4, 1855.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 4, 1855.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 2, 1854.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Apr. 7, 1854, Sept. 22, 1854; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 30, 1854; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, Oct. 5, 1854.
               
                     "Sam" or the
                    "Cayennes" as the Know Nothings were popularly nicknamed. Most
                    of them were false, consisting of conjecture and popular report. Finally
                    authentic copies of the constitutions of the grand, state, and subordinate
                    councils, and the ritual were secured from a drunken friend of
                    "Sam" and the whole was published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, September 18, 1854.
            It was natural that a bitter enmity should be aroused between the Know Nothings
                    and the lower class of foreigners and Catholics in the country. Unscrupulous
                    politicians courting the support of that vote told the foreigners that the Know
                    Nothings wished to disfranchise all foreigners and either kill or drive them out
                    of the country. Taking this literally many Germans and Irish went armed. There
                    is at least one instance in 
                        Franklin county
                     where several Germans attended a funeral armed with Bowie knives to
                    defend themselves against the murderous Know Nothings74 At
                    this time there were great construction camps of Irish laborers along the
                    railroads then being built. It was not at all safe for a man of native American
                    opinions to go near them, for they held a bitter hatred against the Know
                    Nothings. To intimate that any one was a Know Nothing was sufficient to set the
                    Irish on them in all their fury. Riots and assaults on individuals were
                        common.75 The Germans of 
                        Franklin county
                     prepared to go armed to the polls on election day.76
            
            By the end of September, 1854, the Know Nothings claimed to number eighty-seven
                    thousand in the state.77 There is no way of verifying the
                    claim but it cannot be greatly exaggerated. There were councils in practically
                    every town and community in the state, possibly as many as five hundred.78 The strength of the individual councils ranged from a few
                    members up to several hundred. The strength of the one in such a small place as
                            
                  Milton, Wayne county
               , rapidly increased from
                    the original nine to one hundred thirty. Because of their close organization
                    they were even more powerful than their numbers warranted. The balance of
                    political power was in 
                  
                     74
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Sept. 29, 1854.
                  
                     75 Stormont, History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                , 97.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Sept. 29, 1854.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Sept. 26, 1854.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 5, 1854.
               
                     the hands of "Sam." The
                    way to political preferment was through a Know Nothing
                    "wigwam" and to oppose nativism was to commit political
                        suicide.79
            
            The election came on October 10, 1854. There was considerable rioting. The Know
                    Nothings of 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                     were charged with importing bullies from 
                        Louisville
                    , who assaulted foreigners and Roman Catholics to prevent them from
                        voting.80 It is certain that "brass
                    knuckles" were used to help carry the election, but it is impossible to
                    fix the blame for such happenings. All the charges do not come from one side.
                    Irishmen were accused of using violence agaiust the
                        "Natives."81
            
            It was certain that "Sam" was very active on the day of the
                    election, but it was not until the returns came in that it was discovered just
                    how successful he had been. Although the Know Nothings had nowhere openly run
                    tickets of their own, the thorough manner in which they controlled, almost
                    monopolized, the People's movement was now so well known that its
                    victories were reported indiscriminately as Fusion, or Know Nothing successes.
                    Nine out of the eleven Fusion candidates for congress were elected,82 of whom every one with the possible exception of George
                    G. Dunn in the Third district were Know Nothings.83 George
                    Dunn, Will Cumback, David P. Holloway, Lucien Barbour, Harvey D. Scott, Daniel
                    Mace, Schuyler Colfax, Samuel Brenton and John U. Pettit were the men sent to
                    congress by Know Nothing support. In but two rockribbed Democratic districts,
                    the first and the second, were the Old Liners successful, where Smith Miller and
                    William H. English were re-elected. The Indiana delegation in the existing
                    congress consisted of ten Democrats and one Whig.
            
               
                  79
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos, May 7, 1856.
               
                  80 Baird, History of 
                                Clark County
                            , 11; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 21, 1855; 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger, May 23, 1855.
               
                  81 Stormont, History of 
                                Gibson County
                            , 97.
               
                  82
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Oct. 14, 1854.
               
                  83
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos, Sept. 22, 1858; 
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, Dec. 24, 1856; 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger, May 16, 1855. A list of one hundred twenty members
                        of congress elected as Know Nothings is given in the Congressional Globe (Appendix, 34 Congress, 1 Session, 352) in the
                        speech of Representative Smith. In it every one of the nine fusion members
                        from Indiana is listed as a Know Nothing. Representative Mace showed his
                        nativist sentiments when he objected on the floor of the House to
                        Witte's resolution against secret political associations. See the
                            Congressional Globe, 33 Congress, 2 Session,
                    571.
            
            
            The People's state ticket was also triumphantly elected by a majority of
                    about thirteen thousand.8∗ Among the Know
                    Nothings elected to the state senate were David Crane of 
                        Floyd
                     and P. S. Sage of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Switzerland
                    .85 To the house they sent David Kilgore of 
                        Delaware
                    , who was elected speaker, James W. Hervey and Horatio C. Newcomb of 
                        Marion
                    , David Cain of 
                        Switzerland
                    , Solomon Meredith and Charles H. Test of Wayne, and Robert N.
                    Hudson of 
                        Vigo
                    .86
            
            In the county and city elections over the state they were equally successful.
                            
                  Princeton, New Albany
               , Covington,
                            
                  Salem, Logansport, Lafayette, Indianapolis
               , and Crawfords-ville were among the
                    places which the followers of "Sam"' helped to
                        carry.87
            
            Both the Fusionists and their opponents attributed the outcome of the election to
                    the Know Nothings. The Journal said: 
                        There was a universal impression somewhere yesterday that the horrible
                            "Know Nothings" were responsible for the very
                            unexpected result of the election, but nobody assumed the responsibility
                            of averring of his own knowledge that such was the fact. ∗∗∗ Not an infrequent
                            accompaniment of their cheerful looks was a mysterious and to our ears,
                            silly inquiry about "Sam" and whether anybody had seen
                            him and chuckles over the "sucks in" that
                            "Sam" seems to have practiced on our Slaveite friends.
                                ∗∗∗ The Know
                            Nothings are, as usual, charged with this result, and so far as we can
                            learn with great justice. There can be little doubt that a vast majority
                            of all the native born citizens of the State, are unchangably hostile to
                            the subserviency to foreigners, which for years has been the disgrace of
                            the country, and the defeat of right and truth.88
                  
                        An organization, admitted to be a controlling power in the State,
                            suffered itself to be abused, maligned and persecuted ∗∗∗ without retorting,
                            explaining, or contradicting. ∗∗∗ It has had no organs, no
                            canvassers, no friends among prominent men, but it has put the schemes
                            of the shrewdest to shame, and the forces of the strongest parties to
                            flight. ∗∗∗
                            Politicians have not controlled it.89
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  89
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Oct. 21, 1854.
               
                  84
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Oct. 26, 1854, contains the official vote.
               
                  85
                        Senate Journal for 1855, 3-4.
               
                  86
                  Bouse Journal for 1855, 3-5.
               
                  87
                        
                            New Albany
                        
                        Tribune, May 8, 1855; 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Ledger, May 9, Oct. 17, 1855; 
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, Apr. 21, 1855; 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos, May 19, 1858.
               
                  88
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Oct. 14, 1854.
            
            
            The Democratic papers universally charged the "dark lantern
                    party" with their defeat. As the Sentinel put it.
                    "It is a Know Nothing triumph."90
            
            By the end of 1854 the Know Nothings had made their entry into every state of the
                    union. In 
                  Philadelphia,
                            Washington, D. C, St. Louis, Chicago
               , and the cities of 
                  Massachusetts, Ohio
               , and 
                        Virginia
                     the Know Nothings won notable victories.91 In 
                        Nashville
                    ,92
                    
                        Tennessee
                    , and Bridgeport,93
                    
                        Connecticut
                    , they elected mayors who were not even known to be in the running
                    until after the votes were counted. In some of the old Whig strongholds of 
                        Massachusetts
                     it was not known that a new ticket was out until the very day of
                    the election. Their triumphs were as unexpected as they were complete.94
            
            The Fusionists of the state held a grand outdoor meeting, November 1, at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in honor of their recent success. To the Old Liners it appeared as
                    nothing but an open air meeting of the "dark lantern" party.
                    Certain it is, that in the speeches native American sentiment was expressed as
                    freely as anti-
                        Nebraska
                    . Oliver P. Morton, the mildest of all, said: 
                        The provision of our state constitution allowing the right of suffrage to
                            aliens is not only inexpedient but unconstitutional.9"
                    
            
            At a Fusion supper, the following toast was given: 
                        The safest repository of American interests is the hearts of the American
                            people. And the surest mode of governing America is to place her
                            government in American hands–without the aid of foreign
                                influence.96
                  
                    
            
            The Know Nothing state council took advantage of this gratification to hold a
                    meeting of their own.97 In this they followed their usual
                    custom–whenever the People's party met,
                    "Sam's" inner circle of friends had their own little
                    council. The proceedings were kept secret, but it became known 
                  
                     90
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Oct. 14, 1854.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 31, June 13, Aug. 12, Oct. 14, 1854.
                  
                     92 I&td. Oct. 7, 1854.
                  
                     93
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Tribune, Apr. 25, 1854.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 31, 1854.
                  
                     95
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 7, 1854, July 31, 1856.
                  
                     96
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 31, 1856.
                  
                     97
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 3, 1854; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Chapman's Chanticleer, Nov. 9, 1854.
               
                     that, after a struggle between two opposing
                    factions, it was agreed to support Godlove S. Orth for 
                        United States
                     senator. Also Milton Gregg, editor of the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune and a former Old Line Whig, who was now the most
                    active advocate of nativist principles in southern Indiana, was made the nominee
                    for the post of state printer.98
            
            The second national convention of the "Order of the Star Spangled
                    Banner" met in secret session in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , November 15, 1854. For the first time, delegates were present from
                    all the states of the Union. The attendance was large, but there were few public
                    men present. Among the delegates were: Kenneth Rayner, of 
                        North Carolina
                    ; John M. Clayton, of 
                        Delaware
                    ; Daniel Ullman, of 
                        New York
                    ; Jacob Broom, the leader of the former Native American party in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; Mayor Conrad, of 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; and Sam Houston, of 
                        Texas
                    ." The names of the Indiana delegates have not been learned
                    but Rev. Samuel P. Crawford, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who at this time held the office of chaplain, may have served,100 and John W. Dawson, editor of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Times, afterward acknowledged that he himself was elected as
                    one of the delegates of this state.101
            
            The business of the session was the revision of the secret ritual, but at the
                    same time the political question was a welcome intruder.102
                    At this time when the old parties seemed in a process of dissolution, the Know
                    Nothing movement was thought to be in a position to control the coming election.
                    Several presidential possibilities, including Sam Houston, of 
                        Texas
                    ; Millard Fillmore, of 
                        New York
                    ; John M. Clayton, of 
                        Delaware
                    ; Kenneth Rayner, of 
                        North Carolina
                    ; Garrett Davis, of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; Jacob Broom', of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; and Daniel Ullman, of 
                        New York
                    ; most of whom were present, were considered as available
                        candidates.103 But the purpose was neither to make
                    nominations nor adopt a platform.104
            
            
               
                  98
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Nov. 5, 24, 1854.
               
                  99
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Wabash Courier, Dec. 2, 1854; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Dec. 8, 1854.
               
                  100
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 18, 1854.
               
                  101
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos, Sept. 22, 1858.
               
                  102 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                New York
                            , 134.
               
                  103
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Dec. 8, 1854.
               
                  104
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Republican, Dec. 7, 1854.
            
            
            Aside from the revision of the ritual,105 and the oaths of
                    the old degrees, the most notable news that came to the knowledge of the outside
                    world was the adoption of the new third or "Union" degree.
                    This degree was proposed by Kenneth Rayner, who, although a slaveholder and a
                    believer in Southern rights, was intensely national in his sympathies. Unfolding
                    his plan before the convention, it was received with great enthusiasm, and when
                    a committee, of which he was chairman, reported the new degree with its oath, it
                    was adopted by a nearly unanimous vote. The degree was conferred by Mr. Rayner
                    on all the delegates present. It bound each member under solemn pledges to
                    adhere to, defend, and maintain the union of the states against all assaults
                    from every quarter without any limitations whatsoever. The recipients of this
                    degree were welcomed into the brotherhood of the "Order of the American
                    Union." Within six months a million and a half of men had taken the
                        degree.106
            
            Such was the origin of the famous 
                        Union
                     degree. After the adjournment of the convention, November 25, and
                    the news of its work became known, a bitter protest came from the anti-slavery
                    men. They felt that they had been sacrificed in order to gratify the demands of
                    the pro-slavery wing.107 In form the new oath merely
                    affected to condemn any and all attempts to disrupt the nation, a sentiment to
                    which no American could object. But in fact it gave the conservative and
                    pro-slavery element a means of suppressing the anti-slavery agitation by using
                    the discipline of the order against its advocates.108 The
                    immediate result in the north was the disbandment of many councils, and the
                    withdrawal of many members of anti-slavery sentiments.109
                    Yet there can be no doubt that the motive of the men originating the degree was
                    pure, and there is no ground to support the "conspiracy"
                    theory of the northern radicals, who held that the third degree was a virtual
                    pro-slavery obligation.110 This move to 
                  
                     105
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Sept. 18, 1854.
                  
                     106 Wilson, Rise and Fall of the
                                Slave Power in America, II, 420-22.
                  
                     107
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Dec. 8, 1854.
                  
                     108 Scisco, Political Nativism in 
                                    New York
                                , 135.
                  
                     109
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, April 19, 1855; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, Sept. 26, 1856.
                  
                     110 Julian, Recollections,
                        144.
               
                     gain the political support of the south
                    marks the beginning of the disruption of the Know Nothing Party.
            It is probable that a state council met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     November 20, to receive the new ritual from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , but the evidence is meager and no details were given out.111
            
            The year 1854 thus saw the entry of the Know Nothings in Indiana. The startling
                    rapidity with which it spread, the secrecy which enveloped its action, and the
                    phenomenal success that it achieved, made it the most powerful political
                    organization of its day. But already it had reached its zenith. Coinciding with
                    its period of expansion, those disruptive factors appeared which were soon to
                    wreck and ruin it. The intrusion of the slavery issue and the contest with
                    sectionalism will be the subject of a further chapter.
            
               
                        111
                        The following note appeared in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel November 21, 1854: 
                        
                           
                              "Mr. Editor–
                              The Know Nothings assembled in this city today from all
                                            parts of the State. At the meeting of the National
                                            Council held in 
                                                Cincinnati
                                             a new ritual and formulae of the order was
                                            received by the State delegates. These documents will be
                                            distributed today. 
                              
                                            
                                                Monday, Nov. 20.
                                            
                                            (Signed) SAM.
                                        
                           
                        
                     
                  
                        This is a fair sample of the evidence upon which much of our knowledge of
                            the Know Nothing movement rests, but as most of the Sentinel's Know Nothing news later proved to be true,
                            this may be taken as fairly reliable.
                    
            
            (To be continued.)
         
         
         
            Jesse Kimball—Pioneer
            GEORGE WILLIAM BEATTIE and HELEN PRUITT BEATTIE
            
            
                    THE KIMBALL FAMILY
                
            According to the Morrison and Sharpies History of the Kimball
                        Family,1 the first Kimballs to come to America
                    sailed from Ipswich, 
                        England
                    , in the ship "Elizabeth" April 10, 1634. Their
                    home in 
                        England
                     had been in 
                  Rattlesden, Suffold
                    county
               , where they belonged to a middle class and not very
                    numerous family. The name there was spelled in various ways such as Kemball,
                    Kemble, Kimbal, Kimbel or even Kymbold. The claim is made that the last
                    mentioned form was the original one.
            There were two men from this family on the
                    "Elizabeth"– Henry Kemball and Richard Kimball.
                    They may or may not have been brothers. There is nothing to suggest that they
                    were related in any way beyond the similarity of their names and the fact that
                    they came to America on the same vessel. Henry Kemball has but few descendants,
                    but Richard has many. Most of the Kimballs in America are in his line. He had
                    eleven children and they all married and left issue but one, and even that one
                    may have married, although no record to such effect has ever been found.
            Richard was a wheelwright, and settled first in Water-town, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , moving later to Ipswich, where he spent the remainder of his life,
                    dying June 22,1675. He was prominent and respected in Ipswich. Indeed, he moved
                    there at the invitation of the people of the community, who were in need of a
                    competent man to act as wheelwright. The town granted him a house lot, forty
                    acres of land and liberty to "pasture two cows free."
            The Kimball family has always been distinguished for general shrewdness and
                    practical ability rather than for purely intellectual leadership. Few of the
                    name have ever been noted politically, professionally or in letters. Kimbals
                    have figured largely as capable and reliable men and women in the 
                  
                     1 Leonard A. Morrison and Stephen P. Sharpies History of the Kimball Family.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  Jesse Kimball
                  
               
                    
                     common walks of life; and, beginning with
                    Richard and his sons, have frequently been placed in positions of trust in the
                    town and church governments of the places in which they lived. They have always
                    been strongly represented in business, and there they are uniformly successful.
                    Until recently, not many of them were rich, although generally they were in
                    comfortable circumstances. Now many of the name are wealthy.
            Although clearly a peace-loving people, the Kimballs have always shown themselves
                    to be public-spirited and patriotic, and willing to fight when necessary. The
                    name Kimball is found often in the Revolutionary war rolls; and in the War of
                    1812 and in the Civil war, Kimballs again played their part. In the latter war,
                    some of the name gained prominence.
            Several of the Kemballs in 
                        England
                     have distinguished themselves in military service. General Sir
                    Arnold Burrowes Kemball, for long services in the east, was made Knight
                    Commander of the Star of 
                        India
                     in 1860, and Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1878.
            ANCESTRY
                    OF JESSE KIMBALL
            
            While working on the life history of Jesse Kimball, pioneer settler in
                            
                  New York, Kentucky
                and Indiana, it has
                    been brought strongly to mind that a man rarely goes through life without
                    leaving a trail by which he may be traced. Oftentimes the trail is obscure and
                    all but lost, but it exists, nevertheless. Old letters, deeds to property,
                    wills, mortgages, records of lawsuits, and all such papers–to say
                    nothing of family Tbibles and family traditions aid the persistent searcher,
                    frequently in a surprising manner.
            In the case of Jesse Kimball the lack of authoritative information concerning his
                    life activities constituted a great handicap at the outset. Two very important
                    sources of information, however, became available early in the
                    search– his family bible? and his pension application. In each of
                    these he stated that he was born on March 19, 1760, in Preston, 
                        Connecticut
                    . Unfortunately, no mention of his birth can be found in the Preston
                    town records.
            
               
                  2 Jesse Kimball's bible is now owned by Miss
                        Myrtle Knowles of Petersburg, Ind., who kindly sent the writers a copy of
                        the family record it contains.
            
            
            Only recently, some old letters in the possession of a member of the Kimball
                    family, furnished long sought information concerning the parents of Jesse
                    Kimball. The letters, written during the years 1883-1888, for the express
                    purpose of supplying genealogical data, were from the son of Jesse's
                    brother, Isaac;3 and they make it clear that
                    Jesse's father 
                  
                            
                        3 The Isaac Kimball letters in possession of Maj.
                                George W. Kimball, Mt. Vernon, 
                                    Posey county
                                , Ind. 
                           
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          
                                            Cincinnati
                                          
                                       
                                    ,
                                                  May 23, 1883.
                                 Mr. Samuel Morrison:
                                 My Parents to the best of my knowledge were natives
                                                of Conn.–my mother raised in 
                                                  Hartford
                                                 where my father & mother were
                                                married.
                                 They went west to 
                                                  New York
                                                 by way of Long Island Sound, passing
                                                Hell gate (as it was then called) and settled in the
                                                interior of the state on the Catskills.
                                 My father was too young to be in the Revolutionary
                                                war, but his two older brothers & his father
                                                were. At the close of the war one of them received a
                                                portion of land in Henderson Co. 
                                                  Kentucky
                                                –moved to it & that
                                                brought my father out to the new country. We came
                                                out in the year 1810 landed at Lawrence-burgh, where
                                                we stayed for 7 years.
                                 I cannot tell the year, but it was after the
                                                earthquakes (the earthquakes were in 1811-12) that
                                                shook from New Madrid to Cin'ti, that my
                                                mother fell from a loft and lighting back formost on
                                                a churn, the dasher handle entered near the spine
                                                past entirely through her body. I was in the room at
                                                the time and saw my older Brother Charles pull the
                                                dasher out of her body. Strange as it may seem she
                                                got well & lived 20 years after. I am now in
                                                my 82nd year & have but one brother living.
                                                My oldest brother died 64 years ago & left
                                                but one son, Charles Jackson Kimball living in Green
                                                Castle 41 miles beyond 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                                .
                                 
                                                Yours
                                                ISAAC KIMBALL.
                                            
                              
                           
                        
                                
                           
                              
                                 
                                                
                                       CHARLES J. KIMBALL
                                          
                                            Greencastle
                                          , Ind.,
                                    
                                                Fb. 12th, 1886.
                                            
                                 Dear Nephew–
                                 84 years ago I first peeped out from the top of
                                                  Catskill mountain on this
                                                beautiful world covered 4 ft. deep with snow. We
                                                moved to Onterio Co. when I was three years old,
                                                & from there to Indiana when I was 8 years
                                                old & to the lower part of that state when I
                                                was 15 years old. After staying there two years,
                                                when 17 years old I started on foot for 
                                                  Cincinnati
                                                , which I made in one week, waiding some
                                                & swimming some streams; no railroads then.
                                                I Have ever been glad of this movement. I had at
                                                that time but little or no knowledge of the
                                                christian religion but I had a desire to get into
                                                better associations than I found at Cynthianna,
                                                (Indiana).
                                 
                                                ISAAC KIMBALL.
                                            
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                                
                                       CHARLES J. KIMBALL. 
                                            Greencastle
                                          , Ind.:
                                       Cin'ti.
                                    
                                                Feb. 14th, 1888.
                                            
                                 My dear nephew–
                                 You wish me to write what I know about our ancestry.
                                                Well, my grand father John Kimball was the great,
                                                great, great grandson of Adam, the first, the
                                                intermediates I do not recollect, because I never
                                                collected them. My Grandfather married a woman by
                                                the name of Sandos, or Sandors,– She was
                                                some 3 years older than he & died about that
                                                long before him, which events both occured at your
                                                grandfather Jesse's, (where also your own
                                                father was buried). My father was the youngest of 3
                                                sons, & my Aunt Mary the youngest of 13
                                                sisters, 16 in all, the boys names were Samuel,
                                                Jesse & Isaac, the girls names were
                                                Thankful, Prudence, Olive, Mary and the rest of
                                                their names I do not know. My mother's name
                                                was Sarah Warner. I have no knowledge of my
                                                mother's relations but I see a good many of
                                                that name from the eastern states where she was
                                                born. My grandfather and his 2 older sons served in
                                                the Revolutionary war, my own father being too
                                                young. Tour grandfather's bounty land fell
                                                to him in Henderson Co. 
                                                  Kentucky
                                                 & that is what brought so many
                                                of the Kimball family out to the western country. A
                                                man by the name of Morrisson wrote to me from 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                                 to send to him an account of my
                                                mother's accident A recovery–the
                                                letter misscared & was sent back to me,
                                                & I can do no better than to enclose it to
                                                you.
                                 
                                                ISAAC KIMBALL.
                                            
                              
                           
                        
                     
                        
               
                     was named John Kimball. This information,
                    accompanied as it was by the names of Jesse's brothers and some of his
                    sisters, made it possible to establish the connection between his family and the
                    other branches of the Kimball family in 
                        New England
                    .
            Upon following in the Kimball history the line through which Jesse seems to have
                    descended, we find that among the sons of the immigrant Richard (1), was one
                    named John (2). He was born in Rattlesden, 
                        England
                    , in 1631, and came to America with his parents. He spent his life
                    in Ipswich, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and died there May 6, 1698. By trade he was a wheelwright, as his
                    father, Richard, had been, but by occupation he seems to have been an extensive
                    farmer also. He frequently bought and sold land, and there are a large number of
                    deeds on record at 
                  Salem,
                            Massachusetts
               ,
                    bearing his name. He married Mary Bradstreet, whose parents had come over in the
                    ship "Elizabeth" when the Kimballs came. He had thirteen
                    cheldren. His ninth child was named John (3).
            This John (3) was born March 16, 1668, in Ipswich. He became a wheelwright and a
                    farmer, and married Sarah Goodhue. He bought two hundred acres of land in
                    Preston, 
                        Connecticut
                    , and moved there in 1727. He had nine children. Of these Isaac (4)
                    was the sixth.
            Isaac (4) was born April 19, 1705. He married Prudence Parke and lived much of
                    his life in Preston, where he received from his father, John Kimball (3),
                    October 11, 1736, on account of "love and good will," eighty
                    acres of land in that town. Isaac (4) made his will March 20, 1744, and left
                    half his property to his wife, Prudence, and the other half to his sons, John
                    (5), Isaac (5) and Jesse (5), they to have the whole on the death of his wife.
                    The Jesse (5) here mentioned was Captain Jesse of Canaan, 
                        Connecticut
                    , whose Revolutionary war service and subsequent career is known.
                    John (5)∗ is assumed to be the father of Jesse (6), who is the
                    subject of this sketch.
            
               
                  4 From Vital Records, Preston, 
                            Connecticut
                        , Vol. I, Page 91.
            
            
            
                    THE INDIANA BRANCH
                        OF
                        THE KIMBALL FAMILY
               
                
            John (5) was born December 12, 1731. He married Ru-hama Sanders, of Lyme, 
                        Connecticut
                    , September 21, 1752, and had a family consisting of three sons and,
                    it is said, thirteen daughters. The sons were Samuel (6), Jesse (6) and Isaac
                    (6). Of the daughters, Thankful (6), Prudence (6), Olive (6), Azuba (6), Silvia
                    (6), Amy (6), Margaret (6), and Mary (6) are known by name. Jesse (6) seems to
                    have been the second son. We know that Isaac (6) was the youngest, and it is
                    probable that Samuel (6) was the oldest.
            John Kimball (5) was a soldier in the Revolution. His son, Samuel (6), also saw
                    Revolutionary service, in the 
                        Connecticut
                     line. The war records of the various Samuel Kim-balls who served in 
                        Connecticut
                     organizations have been carefully studied but none of them can be
                    identified positively as applying to Jesse's brother. It is possible
                    that the rolls containing the name of this particular Samuel were among the many
                    that suffered destruction during and after the Revolution. Nothing is known to
                    us of Samuel's later career.
            Isaac (6),5 the younger brother, was not old enough to enter
                    the Revolution. He married Sarah Warner, in 
                        Hartford
                    , 
                  
                            
                        5
                                
                                    Posey County
                                , Indiana, Probate Court Records. Book 1815-1827, P.
                                121. 
                                    Springfield
                                 (old county seat of 
                                    Posey
                                ), May 11, 1818.
                            Isaac Kimball filed his bond for $500 with Lewis Williams
                                & Saml C. Hirons his security for the faithful discharge of
                                his duties as Admr. on the Estate of Jesse Kimball Jr. deceased
                                which bond was approved and at the same time filed his inventory of
                                apprasement amounting to $576.39%. Also the sale bill
                                amounting to $529.93.
                            
                        Probate Order Book I, 136.
                            On motion ordered that Jesse Kimball be appointed Guardeen for John
                                Kimbal and Charles J. Kimbal sones of Jesse W. Kimball Deceased John
                                aged about 6 year and Charles J. about Three years. Probate Order Book C & D 1828-1834. May 21, 1832.
                            Charles J. Kimball, sixteen years old on the 7th day of Aug. 1831,
                                minor and son of Jesse W. Kimball late of 
                                    Posey
                                 Co. Deed appeared in open court and chose Jesse Kimball
                                for his Guardian. Bond fixed $600. David Knight and
                                Elisha Kimball securities appointed and sworn. Page 281. February
                                12, 1833.
                            Isaac Kimball, Admr.
                            vs.
                            Jesse Kimball, Guard.
                            Whereas at the August Term 1832 this cause came on for trial, and
                                upon inspection etc.–it was ordered that said Isaac
                                Kimball Admr. be allowed & credited by said Jesse Kimball
                                with the sum of $92.90 as paid on Jan. 22, 1819, and that
                                said Isaac Kimball recover of said Jesse Kimball his costs by him
                                expended and said decree having been neglected to be signed, etc. or
                                minuted
                        
               
                     and moved to 
                        New York
                     State, living first in the Catskills and later in 
                        Ontario county
                     in the Western part of the state. He then moved to Indiana,
                    settling at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and living there from 1810-1817. From 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     he went to 
                        Posey county
                    ; and, so far as is known, he spent the remainder of his life there.
                    He was appointed administrator of the estate of his son, Jesse W. Kimball (7),
                    and the records of the 
                        Posey county
                     courts mention him in this capacity as early as May 11, 1818, and
                    as late as February 12, 1833. His career in Southern Indiana has never been
                    fully worked out. He had four sons, Jesse W (7), Charles (7), James (7), and
                    Isaac (7). Of these, the first named married his cousin, Sarah Kimball (7),
                    daughter of his uncle Jesse (6).
            REVOLUTIONARY WAR SERVICE
                    OF JESSE KIMBALL
            
            In his pension application, which is dated August 20, 1847, Jesse mentions his
                    brother, Samuel, in connection with his own Revolutionary service. The following
                    is a quotation from the application: 
                        I was a substitute for Samuel Kimball, who enlisted in the State of 
                                Connecticut
                             in the Service of the 
                                United States
                             in the Revolutionary War, for the term, I think, of three
                            years or somewhere about that time. And about three months before his
                            time was out, he was taken with the measles and came home and I went and
                            served in his place. My captain's name was Captain Chapley and
                            I do not recollect my lieutenant's name, and I can recollect no
                            other officers. We were stationed during the whole time till I was
                            discharged in the garrison of 
                                New London
                             in the State of 
                                Connecticut
                            . I cannot recollect the time I served or the date of my
                            discharge, but I think the time of my service was about three months or
                            not less than three. If I remember right, I was discharged when my
                            brother's time was out. I received my discharge from Captain
                            Chapley in the 
                                New London
                             garrison, 
                                Connecticut
                            . My discharge and all 
                        
                                    down on the records of this court it is ordered that said
                                        decree be entered now, etc.
                                    From family Bible of Jesse Kimball.
                                    Grandchildren
                                    John Kimball was bomed Feb. 25–1813
                                    Charles J. Kimball was borned Aug. 8–1815
                                
                        
                           6 From 
                                        Vincennes
                                     Marriage Records, 1807-1832.
                        This is to certify that I, James Martin, joined together as
                                    husband and wife on the 25th of November, 1811, Jesse Kimball
                                    and Sally Kimball, being published as the Law directs.
                        JAMES MARTIN
                        
                        Rec'd Aug. 23rd, 1812.
                     
                             the papers were burned in the State
                            of 
                                New York
                             where I lived on a place called Bomen's Creek
                            where I had my house burned down. I lived in 
                                Connecticut
                             sixteen or eighteen years. I then moved to 
                                New York
                             to the place called Bomen's Creek.
                    
            
            In an amendment to his pension declaration, Jesse stated: 
                        That by reason of old age and consequent loss of memory, he can not
                            recollect the precise time he served; but to the best of his knowledge,
                            it was three months. And he recollects that he got his discharge maybe
                            one months or shortly before the town of 
                                New London
                             was burned, but he cannot recollect the day and dates.
                    
            
            His uncertainty concerning dates is only too evident. His statements regarding
                    time are seldom more than approximations. It must be borne in mind, though, that
                    when he made his pension declaration, he was about eighty-seven years of age,
                    and the loss of memory of which he complains, was entirely natural.
            There are valid reasons for questioning the correctness of the date of his own
                    birth. For instance, he states in his declaration that he lived in 
                        Connecticut
                     sixteen or eighteen years before going to 
                        New York
                    . If his Revolutionary service terminated, as he says, shortly
                    before the burning of 
                        New London
                    –which occurred in September, 1781–he would
                    then have been past twenty-one years of age, providing he was born in 1760, as
                    he says. Furthermore, among the children of John Kimball named in the records of
                    the town of Preston,7 is a daughter, Sylvia, who was born
                    November 15, 1759; and it is clear that if she is Jesse's sister,
                    either her birthday or Jesse's is incorrectly stated. Town records are
                    generally accepted as final authority in such cases, while an error regarding
                    the date of his birth might easily have found lodgment in Jesse's mind.
                    He may have been born later than 1760, and there is ground for suspecting that
                    such was the fact. Family tradition has it that his Revolutionary war service
                    was rendered when he was a mere boy, and this accords with his statement
                    limiting his residence in 
                        Connecticut
                     to sixteen or eighteen years. The record of his own birth in his
                    bible could easily be the least reliable entry in it, since it would be
                    dependent upon hearsay and not upon his own knowledge.
            
               
                  7 See note 4.
            
            
            The Captain Chapley referred to in his declaration was undoubtedly Captain Adam
                    Shapley, who was in command of a company at 
                        New London
                     from July 3, 1776s until September 6, 1781,9 when he was mortally wounded at Fort Griswold at the time
                    the town was raided and burned by Benedict Arnold and his men. The
                    "Bomen's Creek" mentioned was Bowman's
                    creek, the name then given to the present Canajoharie, 
                  Montgomery county, New
                            York
               , and the adjacent territory.
            On
                    the New York Frontier
            
            From his statement that he lived sixteen or eighteen years in 
                        Connecticut
                     and then moved to Bowman's creek, it may be assumed that
                    Jesse left 
                        Connecticut
                     very soon after his discharge from the Revolutionary service. This
                    assumption is sustained by the fact that before the Revolution ended, he
                    enrolled in the militia of the portion of 
                  Albany county, New
                    York
               , now constituting 
                        Columbia county
                    .10 Enrollment in the state militia of all
                    able-bodied men between certain ages was required by the 
                        New York
                     law of that day. The evidence of Jesse's enrollment was in
                    a document in the office of the state comptroller of 
                        New York
                    , made out a short time before the close of the Revolutionary war.
                    The exact date of the enrollment cannot now be determined, since the document
                    was among those that were partially destroyed by fire in the 
                        New York
                     state capitol in 1911.
            It would interest us to know the cause of the fire that destroyed
                    Jesse's home on Bowman's creek, just as it would interest us
                    to know the reason for his enlisting in the militia of 
                        Albany county
                     instead of in his own county of Tryon, as 
                        Montgomery county
                     was called in Revolutionary times. 
                        Tyron county
                    –renamed 
                        Montgomery county
                    , owing to the unpopularity of the British governor,
                    Tryon–was the center of fierce border warfare in the later years of
                    the Revolution. There the Indians of the Six Nations, led by the famous Mohawk
                    Indian chieftain, Brant, and the British soldiers and Tories under 
                        Johnson
                     and the Butlers, devastated the country, burning houses and crops
                    and driving away the settlers. Canajoharie 
                  
                     8
                            Colonial Records of 
                                    Connecticut
                                
                     , 1775-76, Vol. XV. 463.
                  
                     9 Caulkin's History of 
                                    New London
                                
                     , 561.
                  
                     10 James A. Roberts, 
                                New York
                            , in the Revolution as Colony and State 238.
               
                     and the Mohawk valley
                    were ravaged in 1780. By the end of 1781, the incomplete records available show
                    that in 
                        Tryon county
                     alone, 700 buildings had been burned and 354 families had been
                    driven from their homes. Such warfare continued in 
                        New York
                     for a year and a half after Cornwallis' surrender, in
                        1781.11 Jesse's home may have been destroyed in
                    some raid, and he may have gone to 
                        Albany county
                     for a temporary refuge. On the other hand, the fire may have been
                    accidental; and, since 
                        Albany county
                     lay between 
                        Connecticut
                     and Bowman's creek, Jesse may have tarried there when on
                    his way originally from 
                        Connecticut
                    , finding it expedient to enroll at that time.
            In connection with the Canajoharie (Bowman's creek) residence, we find
                    Jesse Kimball mentioned in the 1st 
                        United States
                     census of 
                        New York
                     (taken in 1790) as a resident of Canajoharie, and head of a family
                    containing one maltf over sixteen, one male under sixteen, and four females.
            There was a considerable migration from 
                        Connecticut
                     to the valley of the Mohawk river after the
                    Revolution, and there were other Kimballs living in 
                        Montgomery county
                     in 1790 in or near Canajoharie. Among them were David Kimball and
                    his brother, Nathan,12 both of whom were born in Preston, 
                        Connecticut
                    . They were second cousins of Jesse. The others were apparently not
                    closely related to him. The fact that relatives were already on the 
                        New York
                     frontier, would furnish a strong reason for a youth of
                    Jesse's age going so far from home as he did to acquire a farm.
            In the real estate records of 
                        Montgomery county
                    , we find that on April 21, 1789, Jesse Kimball acquired 97 acres of
                    land in Canajoharie district for 270 pounds. On the same day he sold another
                    piece containing 213 acres for 340 pounds. The deed transferring this last piece
                    of property was acknowledged by him at Canajoharie on August 31, 1790. The
                    records of 
                        Montgomery county
                     do not show how or when he obtained it. It may be that the deed
                    covering its acquisition was burned in the fire that destroyed his home on
                    Bowman's creek, as in those days, deeds and other documents were often
                    held in private 
                  
                     11 Francis. Whiting Halsey, Old 
                                    New York
                                 Frontier, 312-313.
                  
                     12 U. S. Census 1790, 
                                New York
                            ; Morrison and Sharpies, History of the Kimball
                                Family, 257-258.
               
                     houses for years before they were recorded.
                    No such papers were recorded in 
                        Montgomery county
                     prior to 1790. The deed to the land that Jesse purchased in 1789
                    was not recorded until 1809. Both pieces of his property lay on
                    Bowman's creek about six miles southwest of Canajoharie town, in the
                    tract patented to John Lyne in 1738.
            Indian War Service
            
            We quote further from Jesse's pension declaration: 
                        I moved next (after leaving 
                                New York
                            ) to 
                        Henderson
                                county, Kentucky
                     . I think I lived in that state about ten
                            years, though between that time and the time I was discharged by Captain
                            Chapley, I enlisted in the Indian wars for the term of three years. I
                            served my time out, and was discharged by Captain John H. Buel, at
                                    
                        Cincinnati,
                                    Ohio
                     . After
                            that, I came down to Henderson intending to go on to 
                                New Orleans
                            , but the captain of the boat on which I was got to be so
                            afraid of the Indians that he sold out and left me without money, and I
                            never got back to 
                                Connecticut
                             only on a visit. I need only say that on my return home I
                            had only to pay 25 cents. I could scarcely travel for persons making
                            inquiry about the wars, so they never charged me from Henderson to 
                                Connecticut
                            . I bought one watermelon for 25 cents; was all my journey
                            cost me. And then I moved to this county (
                                Gibson county
                            , Indiana) where I have lived for the last, I think,
                            thirty-eight years or near that, maybe more or less.
                    
            
            A diligent search of the war department records relating to the Indian wars
                    subsequent to the Revolution, fails to show any mention of Jesse Kimball. The
                    adjutant general at 
                        Washington
                     states that he has no list of the soldiers in Captain [John H.]
                    Buel's company of the 2nd regiment, the company in which Jesse would
                    have been. The early records of the war department are, however very incomplete,
                    since the 
                        United States
                     war office, then located in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , was burned November 8, 1800, with all its contents. Forcunately
                    the time of Jesse's service can be established indirectly, as we shall
                    see.
            Realizing, after General (Josiah) Harmar's defeat at the hands of the
                    Indians in 1790, that a larger army was necessary for the service in the west,
                    congress authorized the formation of the 2nd regiment of 
                        United States
                     infantry, March 3, 1791, and Captain Buel was appointed to a
                    command in the new  regiment within a
                        month.13 A letter written by the secretary of war August
                    11,1791, states that Captain Buel was to march that day from 
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               –the place which had
                    been his recruiting station–and that he was expected to reach Fort
                    Pitt (Pittsburg) in a month or more.14 On September 18,
                    1791, Maj. Gen. Arthur St. Clair, governor of the Northwest territory and
                    commander in chief of the military forces in the west after Harmar's
                    defeat, wrote to the secretary of war from his headquarters at 
                        Fort Washington
                     (
                        Cincinnati
                    ) that he had heard of Captain Buel's arrival at Fort
                        Pitt.15 Captain Buel therefore made the march with his
                    men within the time planned.
            On October 20, 1791, Maj. Ebenezer Denny, aid de camp to General St. Clair, wrote
                    in his diary:16
                    
                  
                     
                        an express this day from 
                                        Fort Washington
                                    . Captain Buel's company of the 2nd
                                    Regiment had arrived there from the eastward.
                     
                  
               
            
            Since General St. Clair's men left 
                        Cincinnati
                     on their ill-fated campaign against the Indians late in September,
                    Captain Buel's company, in which Jesse was enrolled, missed
                    accompanying them by only a few days.
            On the 19th of November, 1791, after the failure of the St. Clair expedition,
                    Major Denny embarked at 
                        Cincinnati
                     for the east; and in his diary, speaking of the passengers on the
                    boat, he remarked: 
                  
                     
                        Captain Buel, of the 2nd Regiment, who arrived at 
                                        Fort Washington
                                     some short time after the army had marched from
                                    there, and where he chose to remain, is now returning home.
                     
                  
               
            
            It is clear to us, as it may not have been to Major Denny, that Captain
                    Buel's remaining at 
                        Cincinnati
                     was not a matter of his own choice. That General St. Clair had
                    planned to have Captain Buel and his company stay there for garrison duty during
                    his (St. Clair's) absence may be inferred from the statement in his
                    letter of September 18, to which we have already referred: 
                        I had the honor to advise you of the arrival of General Butler and the
                            last of the troops I had reason to expect for the campaign.
                    
                    
                  
                     13
                            Heitman's Historical Register and Dictionary of
                                the Army. 260.
                  
                     14 Smith St. Clair Papers, II,
                            230.
                  
                     15
                            St. Clair Papers, II, 240.
                  
                     16
                            Memoirs of the Historical Society of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                     , VII. "A Military Journal kept by Major
                            E. Denny." 1781 to 1795.
               
                     and from the letter he wrote from 
                        Fort Washington
                     to the secretary of war on October 6, 1791: 
                        In order to communicate with some degree of certainty with your office, I
                            have directed Captain Buel, when he arrives, to send a sergeant and
                            twelve men to a house that has been newly erected, half way between this
                            place (
                                Cincinnati
                            ) and 
                                Lexington
                            , to each of which two men are to be sent off on every
                            Monday morning to carry dispatches. ∗∗∗ I am this moment setting
                            out for the army which I hope to overtake tomorrow evening, 17
                  
                    
            
            We may feel considerable certainty that Jesse had a part in the bearing of these
                    dispatches from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Lexington
                    , from which point they were forwarded to the seat of government at 
                        Philadelphia
                     by way of 
                        Boone
                    's wilderness trace. Fleet-footed and athletic as he is
                    known to have been, we can picture him as an acceptable scout and messenger at
                    this critical time.
            The return of Captain Buel to the east, mentioned by Major Denny, was evidently
                    merely temporary since in 1792-93 Buel was in the 2nd Sub-Legion,18 a part of the organization formed by General Anthony Wayne when he
                    succeeded General St. Clair. Wayne conducted a successful campaign against the
                    Indians, a campaign that terminated in 1794 in the battle of Fallen Timbers. In
                    this conflict, the power of the Indians in the west was so broken that the peace
                    that followed endured for sixteen years. Jesse Kimball must have been with Buel
                    in this 2nd Sub-Legion.
            It has already been shown that Jesse was in Canajoharie as late as August 31,
                    1790–the date when he personally acknowledged his deed to property.
                    His family bible gives October 25, 1794, as the date of the birth of his first
                    child after his marriage to Elizabeth Roelofson. It would seem proper,
                    therefore, to assume that he came west with the 2nd infantry in 1791, and that
                    his three years of service covered 1791-92-93. He probably reached Henderson in 
                        Kentucky
                     late in 1793 or early in 1794.
            There is a well-authenticated family tradition to the effect that Jesse
                    contracted an unfortunate marriage before he came west, a marriage that
                    terminated in a divorce and his departure 
                  
                     17
                            St. Clair Papers II, 245
                  
                     18
                            Heitman, I, 260.
               
                     from the scene of his troubles.19 His entering the 
                        United States
                     army for service in the Indian wars must have occurred at about
                    that time. The tradition concerning the divorce finds support in the record of
                    the family belonging to Jesse Kimball in Canajoharie, 
                        New York
                    , in the census of 1790. The four females and one boy were probably
                    his wife and members of her family. The divorce, which its accompanying grief
                    and mortification, goes far toward explaining the somewhat surprising fact that
                    a man of his character and standing, as indicated by his real estate
                    transactions in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     and by his life in Indiana, would join such an organization as the
                    2nd regiment of the 
                        United States
                     army was at the time of the Indian wars. The regiment is known to
                    have been made up, at that period, of a very disreputable element of the
                    community. The quality of many of the men is indicated by the following passage
                    from Maj. Denny's "Military Journal," dated Nov. 7,
                    1791: 
                        The prediction [of defeat] by General Harmar before the army set out on
                            the campaign was founded on his experience and particular knowledge of
                            things. He saw with what material the bulk of the army was
                            composed–men collected from the streets and prisons of the
                            cities and hurried out into the enemies' country.
                    
            
            
               
                  19 From letter of Mrs. Amyet Burton Harris,
                        granddaughter of Jesse Kimball, and daughter of Mahala Kimball.
                            
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Caldwell, 
                                          Idaho
                                       
                                    
                                 ,
                                                August 1, 1918.
                              
                              I think Aunt Sarah's first husband's
                                            name was Jesse Kimball. They were first cousins. (He)
                                            lived a long distance away. He and (she) had never met
                                            until he came to visit his uncle and family. It was a
                                            case of love at first sight, and in course of time they
                                            were married and lived happily together on what was
                                            later the Levi Jones place, and still later the Lydia
                                            Knowles place.
                              Aunt Sarah was the beauty, in her father's
                                            family. Her husband died and left her with the little
                                            boy Charles. Then she lived with her father and mother
                                            until in course of time she married Uncle Hullum.
                              Yes, grandfather was a Revolutionary soldier. He and Mr.
                                            Wyatt and another man, I can't quite call his
                                            name, all living in the vicinity of Owensville, 
                                                Princeton
                                             and Cynthiana, were shown great military
                                            honors at celebrations on the 4th of July.
                              Grandfather had two sisters who I think lived with him,
                                            also his parents,– one Aunt Amy, the other
                                            Aunt Thankful.
                              I remember when I was a child, a lawyer came out from
                                            Bvansville and talked pension to
                                            grandfather,–talked of everything pertaining
                                            to it, and left. We never heard of it again. Grandpa
                                            never looked it up. He had plenty and was not grasping
                                            for more.
                              Yes, there was an unhappy marriage, and consequently a
                                            divorce. I do not know who the first wife was, or what
                                            state they lived in when married, but think it was In
                                            the far east.
                           
                        
                     
                        
               
            
            
            The entire 
                        United States
                     army, at that time, consisted of the 1st and 2nd regiments of
                    infantry and some militia, the latter mainly from 
                        Kentucky
                    . The 1st regiment had been retained from Revolutionary service, and
                    although containing fewer than 300 men, was a high grade organization, very
                    different from the hurriedly formed 2nd regiment.
            The Kentucky Frontier
                    and
                    the Roelofson Family
            
            One of the problems connected with Jesse's life that long seemed
                    insoluble was that of when and where he married Elizabeth Roelofson, the mother
                    of the children named in his family bible. Recent discoveries have made it clear
                    that the marriage occurred in 
                        Kentucky
                     in the winter of 1793-94, soon after his arrival there.
            Family tradition pictures the wife as of Holland Dutch descent, fair,
                    ruddy-cheeked, stout, industrious, and "no taller than the back of a
                    splint-bottomed chair." The following account of her wedding journey,
                    as repeated by one of her granddaughters,20 shows her to
                    have been level-headed and resolute, as well: 
                        I don't remember hearing grandfather speak of serving in the
                            Indian War, but he was familiar with the Indian mode of warfare and took
                            great pleasure in having me read to him hour after hour of those things.
                            He and grandmother were married in those troublous times. Do not know
                            where they were married or by whom. Our grandmother was a Miss Elizabeth
                            Roleson. Came from 
                                Germany
                             [more probably Holland. G. W. B.] when a child, with her
                            parents. Do not know where they settled, but it was among American
                            people. Grandma said they, the children, would hide out when they would
                            see someone coming toward the house, as there would probably be
                            questions asked and they could neither speak nor understand our
                            language.
                        When Grandpa and she were married, the country was sparsely settled. The
                            Indians roamed the forest and were very troublesome. The whites lived in
                            little settlements [Near stockades. G. W. B.] here and there. I do not
                            know how far he went for her, but they had been married and were enroute
                            for his home on horseback, following a bridle path. It was very cold
                            weather. They traveled on and on, after nightfall, hoping to reach the
                            settlement. They were suffering much from cold but on they went. After
                            hours of solitary riding through deep lonely forests, they routed a
                            bunch of hogs from their hiding. They were suffering so terribly with
                            cold that grandpa suggested they tie their 
                        
                           20 Mrs. Amyet Burton Harris.
                     
                             horses and get into the hog bed
                            until morning to keep from freezing. Grandma said: "No I never
                            have slept in a hog bed. This shows we are nearing the settlement.
                            Let's press on." So they did, and after a time came in
                            sight of a house all aglow with light. They rode up and he called
                            out–when in an instant all was dark again. Grandpa called and
                            pleaded but there was no response. He said: "I know you
                            well," calling the man by name. But they (the occupants of the
                            house) were afraid of Indians as they would resort to such tricks to get
                            into houses and slaughter the inmates. He continued to plead and tell
                            them of circumstances, places and people which he and they were familiar
                            with. At last the lamps were cautiously lighted and they were invited in
                            and met with a warm welcome, and were hospitably entertained until
                            morning. 
                    
            
            A recent book by a genealogist who has devoted many years of research to the
                    Roelofson-Rulison family,21 states that the family
                    originated in 
                        Germany
                    , one branch migrating to 
                        Denmark
                     and another to Holland, thence to America. The German form of the
                    name was Ruloff, the Danish form Ruloffsen, changing gradually in America to
                    Rulison. The Holland branch called itself Roelofson. Many variations in the name
                    have appeared, due to errors in transcribing or to attempts to spell it
                    phonetically. Elizabeth is a common name among the women of the family. Wherever
                    a copy of the signature of a member of this family occurs in the
                            
                  Henderson county, Kentucky
                records, the
                    Holland form, of the name is used, indicating clearly that Elizabeth's
                    family was from Holland.
            Several members of the Roelofson family lived on Schoharie creek in
                            
                  Montgomery county, New York
               , a few miles only from
                    Canajoharie, and very near where Jesse's cousins settled.22 Jesse may have been acquainted with them during his residence
                    there. Another member of the family, Lawrence Roelofson, Sr., moved from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                     with his two sons, William and Lawrence, Jr., his seven
                        daughters,23 and at least two sons-in-law, settling at
                    or near Fort 
                  
                     21 Henry Flagler Rulison, Genealogy
                                of the Rulison–Rulison–Rulifson Families, 170.
                  
                     22 U. S. Census 1790–
                                New York
                            ; also Henry F. Rulison Rulison Genealogy,
                            15, and History of the Kimball Family, 257.
                  
                     23 Genealogy Rulison, Rulifson, Ruliffson
                            Families, page 171.
                  NOTE–Mr. Rulison, in a personal letter to the writers
                            before his book was Issued, stated that he had done no research work in
                            the 
                        Henderson county, Kentucky
                     , records,
                            but had received his information concerning the 
                                Kentucky
                             Roelofsons from two granddaughters of Lawrence Roelofson,
                            Jr. His published account, therefore, so far as it relates to Lawrence,
                            Jr., and his father shows many 
               
                     Vienna, on Green
                        river.24 The earliest record known to the
                    writers relating to Lawrence Roelofson, Sr., is that in which his name and the
                    name of his son-in-law, Norod Franceway, appear in the venire summoned September
                    17, 1781, for the first grand jury in 
                  Washington county, Pennsylvania
               .25 The family had
                    evidently, made their home there on arriving from Holland. Lawrence
                    Roelofson's name does not appear in the list of those who served on
                    this grand jury, and we may believe that after having been summoned, he was
                    found ineligible owing to the fact that he was then unable to speak or
                    understand English.
            We do not know when Lawrence Roelofson, Sr., arrived at Fort Vienna, but he and
                    his family were living there in 1790.26
                    
                  
                            of the inaccuracies and uncertainties of family tradition. For
                                example, Christian Roelofson is named as the
                                father of Lawrence, Jr., and he is assumed to he a brother of the
                                Lawrence who lived on Schoharie creek, N. Y. Reliable records,
                                however, show that the father's name was Lawrence and he
                                therefore, could not have been a brother of the 
                                    New York
                                 Lawrence. It is also stated that Lawrence, Jr., was
                                born in 
                           Henderson county,
                                        Kentucky
                        , in 1772; but the evidence at hand
                                shows that none of the Boelofsons were in 
                                    Henderson county
                                 until after 1790. Even then they were among the first
                                white settlers at Bed Banks. Elizabeth Boelofson's
                                information that the children were born in Europe (see Mrs.
                                Harris' letter, p. 13) is probably more accurate than that
                                of Mr. Rulison's informants.
                            Mr. Rulison's book contains a gripping tale of the last
                                journey of Ann Boelofson Scott, a daughter of Lawrence, Jr., which
                                we quote:
                            "April 1, 1852, John Tucker Scott with his family,
                                consisting of his wife, Ann Roelofson and nine children, and several
                                other families, started overland across the 'great
                                plains' to go to 
                                    Oregon
                                , then a territory, with a caravan of ox teams. The
                                journey consumed full six months. When in the Black
                                Hills of Wyoming, then the territory of 
                                    Nebraska
                                , at a point in the trail about seventy miles north of
                                the present city of Cheyenne, Ann Roelofson Scott died, June 20,
                                1852. She was sick but a few hours with what was known as
                                'plains cholera.' Around her lowly bed on the
                                ground in a shelter tent where she died, were her husband and nine
                                children, the youngest three years and six months old, the oldest
                                nineteen years. Her last words were: 'All is
                                well.' All was indeed well with her, but for her children,
                                what a calamity! A grave was made for her in the soft sandstone by
                                chiseling out a coffin-shaped vault. She was wrapped in cerements
                                and buried by the side of the trail, in a wilderness far from
                                civilization–without a coffin. The next morning the oxen
                                were yoked up and the caravan again started westward, her husband
                                and children with anguished hearts and fearsome glances backward to
                                the new-made grave."
                            Harvey Whitefield Scott, a son of Ann Roelofson Scott, became one of
                                the prominent leaders of thought in 
                                    Oregon
                                . For more than forty years he was editor of the 
                                    Portland
                                
                                Oregonian. His funeral ceremonies in 1910,
                                conducted by Masonic fraternities, are referred to as the most
                                notable ever held in 
                                    Oregon
                                .
                        
                  
                     24 See note. 28.
                  
                     25 Boyd Crumrine History of
                                        
                           Washington County,
                                        Pennsylvania
                        
                     , 235-236.
                  
                     26 Isaac Knight states that he heard the shot that
                            killed Mr. Downs. See note 28. The year in which Thomas Downs was killed
                            is given in the following from Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , II, 597. 
                                McLean county
                            . A party of trappers from the fort at 
                                Vienna
                            , in 1790, while at the mouth of Green
                            river, was attacked
               
                     The fort was built not later than 1788,
                    probably in 1784 or 1785,27 on the site of the present town
                    of 
                        Calhoun
                     in 
                        McLean county
                    . Existing evidence shows that some time prior to April 8, 1793,
                    Lawrence, Sr., and his family moved from Fort Vienna to Red Banks, the name of
                    the first settlement on the site of the present city of Henderson, arriving
                    there when only one of the families living in the place boasted a house, the
                    others dwelling in camps.28 It is probable that he was
                    living in this settlement when Jesse first reached it.
            
                by Indians, who killed McElmurray and wounded Wm. Faith, a lad of 17, who
                        made his escape and returned to the fort. About the same time, the Indians
                        killed Thos. Downs near the fort.
               
                  27 Otto A. Rothert, History of 
                                Muhlenberg County
                            
                  , 30.
               
                  28 From The Story of Isaac Knight, Indian
                            Captive.
                        The above is the title of a 21-page pamphlet written by Rev. Hiram A.
                            Hunter from data supplied by Isaac Knight. The pamphlet was published in
                            1839 in 
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., and reprinted in Overbrook, 
                                Kansas
                            , in 1901. The greater part of the narrative was reproduced
                            in Brant and Fuller History of 
                                    Vanderburg County
                                , Indiana. In 1814 Isaac Knight moved to 
                                Vanderburg county
                            , Indiana, and occupied a farm a few miles east of 
                                Evansville
                             where he passed the remainder of his life. Knight township
                            in 
                                Vanderburg county
                            , was named for him. A historical painting by the artist
                            Wilson representing the capture of Isaac Knight by the Indians hangs in
                            the Memorial coliseum in 
                                Evansville
                            . Much of our knowledge of the journeyings of the Roelofson
                            family in 
                                Kentucky
                             is derived from Mr. Hunter's pamphlet.
                        "Isaac Knight, the subject of the following narrative, was born
                            in what was then called 
                                Washington county
                            , in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            ; his father was John Knight who married Ann Rolison, by
                            whom he had seven sons, of whom Isaac was the eldest. When the subject
                            of this narrative was a child, his father removed, by water, in company
                            with his father-in-law, Mr. Lawrence Rolison, and Norod Franceway, who
                            had married in the same family. These all settled at or near the place,
                            known by the name of Vienna (now Calhoun) on Green
                            river, about eighty miles above its mouth, where, with much
                            difficulty, they lived some years, grinding their corn on hand mills or
                            pounding it in a mortar; and at one time such was the difficulty with
                            which bread stuff was had, that Isaac's father bought some corn
                            at the mouth of Green river, at one dollar and
                            twenty-five cents per bushel, and conveyed it to his family in a perogue
                            or canoe. Indeed, the difficulties under which the first settlers of
                            that part of 
                                Kentucky
                             labored, were almost insupportable.
                        For the security of the whites and their families, they were impelled to
                            build and resort to forts in as large bodies as their thinly settled
                            population would permit. Uniting their energies, they labored by turn in
                            each man's field, one or more, as necessity required, standing
                            as sentinel.
                        Seldom would anything short of abundant sign of Indian hostilities drive
                            them in the spring of the year, from their homely huts. It is, however,
                            perfectly within the recollection of the author of this narrative, that,
                            when a boy, he heard the report of a gun, which killed dead one of the
                            finest men in the settlement, and one, too, who lived within a few steps
                            of his father's door. Mr. Downs, who was thus shot by the
                            Indians, left a wife and seven children to lament his untimely death. He
                            was most cruelly used by the savage butchers, and left scalped on the
                            ground.
                        About this time the country about the Red Banks, on the Ohio
                                river, now known as Henderson, In 
                        Henderson county, Kentucky
                     , began to be spoken of
                            as a most desirable section, and Isaac's father, with the rest
                            of the connection, moved 
               
            
            
            The following extract from the journal of one B. Van Cleve, published in the American Pioneer, describes the social conditions at Red Banks
                    as they may have appeared to Jesse when he arrived there: 
                  
                     
                        July 8, 1794. Came to Red Banks. This place is a refuge, not for
                                    the oppressed, but for all the horse thieves, rogues and outlaws
                                    that have been able to effect their escape from justice in the
                                    neighboring states. Neither law nor gospel has been able to
                                    reach here as yet. A commission of the peace had been sent by 
                                        Kentucky
                                     to one Mason; and an effort had been made by the
                                    Southwest Territory (
                                        Tennessee
                                    ) to introduce law, as it was unknown as yet to
                                    which it belonged; but the inhabitants drove the persons away
                                    and insisted upon doing without. I inquired how they managed to
                                    marry, aand was told that the parties agreed to take each other
                                    for husband and wife before their friends.29
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            This description is far from flattering, and it is evident that the
                    writer's knowledge of Red Banks' society did not include the
                    whole population. The lawless element in such a 
                  
                            to that place, where they found a few families residing. But one
                                house was yet erected–the rest of the families lived in
                                camps. In removing to this place, their property being conveyed by
                                water, except the stock, Isaac, then a boy about nine or ten years
                                of age, assisted in driving them. They at length arrived all in
                                safety, at the Red Banks, where even greater difficulties were
                                undergone by settlers, than had been endured by them at 
                                    Vienna
                                . Here, too, as at the former place, they cultivated the
                                soil in safety, only by means of sentinels. But these only secured
                                them from the attacks of red men. Greater fears were excited among
                                the quiet settlers, by the inhuman conduct of some white men,
                                Kuykendall, Ayers, Ashley, Howard, Cane, and the Masons, who seemed
                                to delight more in bloodshed and murder than in anything else. With
                                such men as these they were harrassed for some years, and no
                                man's life was considered secure, who was so unfortunate as
                                to incur their displeasure."
                            Isaac Knight was captured by Indians across the river from Red Banks,
                                April S, 1793. In the summer of 1795 he escaped and returned to 
                                    Kentucky
                                . From 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 he and a companion went down the 
                                    Ohio
                                 in a boat. The narrative continues as follows:
                            "After running some days, they landed at the mouth of Harden
                                Creek. Here Isaac met a young married woman, with whom he had gone
                                to school before he was taken by the Indians. They recognized each
                                other, and she informed him that his father and friends had removed
                                from the Red Banks to what was then, and is now called,
                                Knight's Falls, on Green river. He was
                                here advised to land at the Yellow Banks, which he did. Now we find
                                the weary, anxious little prisoner within thirty miles of his
                                father's dwelling.
                            From this place he started alone and afoot along a path some twelve
                                miles In length to the house of an old acquaintance, Mr. Martin
                                Vernado, with whom he had been often forted at 
                                    Vienna
                                , when but a child.
                            Next morning the kindness of Mr. Vernado and one of his sons impelled
                                them to accompany Isaac, in a canoe, down Green
                                River, to his father's house."
                        
                  
                     29 Mr. Van Cleve gives Mason as the source of his
                            information. This Mason was probably the leader of the bandits who made
                            Diamond Island near Red Banks their principal haunt. They plundered
                            boats and murdered passengers and crews. See Cuming, A
                            Tour In Thwaites Early Western Travels, IV,
                            267-8.
               
                     community would naturally be much more
                    conspicuous than the quieter residents, and it would be only natural for a
                    transient traveler to gain an unfavorable impression of the whole. It is
                    gratifying, however, to remember that Jesse's advent in Red Banks at
                    that time was not of his own volition. As is shown by his statements in his
                    pension application, he was on his way to 
                        New Orleans
                     after receiving his discharge from the army at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , becoming stranded at Red Banks when the captain sold the boat on
                    which he was traveling. He must have been intending to take a ship at 
                        New Orleans
                     that would carry him back to his home in 
                        Connecticut
                    , for in commenting on the matter in his pension declaration, he
                    says, "And so I never got back to 
                        Connecticut
                    , only on a visit." Had the captain not become frightened,
                    Jesse would doubtless have continued on his way to 
                        New Orleans
                    , and this sketch would never have been written. During the ten
                    years or more that he lived in the vicinity of Red Banks law and order were
                    established. A county government was organized, and there were added to the
                    population men of high standing such as the naturalist, Audubon, and Gen. Samuel
                    Hopkins and his associates in the Henderson land company.
            The Roelofson family, including the families of the married sons and daughters,
                    must have formed a very appreciable part of the early population of Red Banks.
                    It is not known just how long they remained there. We do know that on April 8,
                    1793, while the family were living at Red Banks, Lawrence's grandson,
                    Isaac Knight, was captured by the Indians and carried far north of the 
                        Ohio
                    . After two and one-half years of captivity, he escaped and returned
                    to 
                        Kentucky
                     in the fall of 1795, to find that his people had left Red Banks and
                    were then living at a station on Green river. This station
                    was known as Knight's Falls, and was probably established by his
                    father, John Knight. It was in the northeastern part of the present county of
                    Henderson, at or near Spottsville, where Lock and Dam No. 1 on Green
                        river were afterward constructed.30
            
            We have no direct proof that Jesse Kimball moved to Knight's Falls with
                    the Roelofsons, although their change of 
                  
                     30 In returning to his parents, Isaac Knight
                            traveled twelve miles by land, going from Yellow Banks, now Owensboro,
                            to the big bend in Green River and eighteen miles
                            down the river in a canoe to Knight's Falls.
               
                     residence occurred at about the time that
                    he allied himself with them through his marriage to Elizabeth. There is valid
                    ground, however, for inferring that he did so, and that he remained with them
                    for a brief time.
            His visit to 
                        Connecticut
                    , of which he speaks in his pension declaration, must also have been
                    made at about this time, and his wife, Elizabeth, and the eldest child, Polly,
                    may have accompanied him. There is a vague family tradition to the effect that
                    Sarah, the second daughter, whose birth occurred March 5, 1796, was born in 
                        Connecticut
                    .31 The time would have been propitious for such
                    a trip, since the breaking of the power of the Indians, through Wayne's
                    victory in August, 1794, had left the country comparatively quiet, and a woman
                    could have traveled in comparative safety. Such was very far from the case when
                    Jesse first arrived at Red Banks. His determination then to return to 
                        Connecticut
                     by way of 
                        New Orleans
                     was doubtless due to the fact that the Indians were making travel
                    up the 
                        Ohio
                     extremely hazardous. The trip to 
                        Connecticut
                     must have been made soon after Wayne's victory, and before
                    the details of the campaign had become generally known. This would explain the
                    eagerness for information that he says in his pension application was displayed
                    all along the line of his journey. He must have been one of the first to carry
                    the news.
            It must have been shortly after his return from this visit that Jesse made
                    improvements on a tract of land in what later became 
                  Hopkins county, Kentucky
               . Our knowledge of his interest in this
                    tract is derived from powers of attorney that he and Lawrence Roelofson, Jr.,
                    executed in 1812 allowing the sale of their preemption claims.32 The rights of each of these men had been acquired from the
                    commissioners of 
                        Logan county
                     under authority of a law of 
                        Kentucky
                     enacted in 1795, making provision for the sale of unoccupied lands
                    between the Green and Cumberland rivers.33 So long as 
                        Kentucky
                     remained a part of 
                        Virginia
                    , these lands had been 
                  
                     31 Family tradition supplied March 12, 1917, from
                            Palmeto, 
                                Florida
                            , by Enoch Jones, only surviving son of Jesse
                            Kimball's daughter, Sarah and by Major George W. Kimball, her
                            grandson.
                  
                     32 Records County Court Clerk, Henderson, 
                                Kentucky
                            . Deed Book C, pages 36-37.
                  
                     33 Humphrey Marshall, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , II, 177-178.
               
                     reserved for holders of 
                        Virginia
                     military warrants. The claims of Jesse and Lawrence, Jr., must have
                    been allowed between 1795 and March 1, 1797, the latter being the date when, by
                    the organization of 
                        Christian county
                    , the territory in which the lands were located ceased to be a part
                    of 
                        Logan county
                    .
            The improvements on which these claims were based could hardly have been made
                    before Wayne's victory had relieved the settlers in that Indian menaced
                    region from the necessity of living in or near stockades. Jesse and his
                    companion doubtless erected cabins and grew crops on the new tract, at some
                    distance from the relatives at Knight's Falls.
            Jesse must have been living near his wife's people at Knight's
                    Falls in 1799. In August of that year, the county court at 
                        Henderson
                     convened for its second meeting after organization, and took up the
                    matter of establishing public highways.3∗ An
                    order was issued providing for a road from Henderson to Green
                    River, and Lawrence Roelofson's two sons, his three
                    sons-in-law, one of whom was Jesse Kimball, his grandson and certain neighbors
                    were ordered to assist in the construction of the portion of the road between
                    Lick creek and Green river. They would naturally have been
                    asked to build the part of the road that was in the locality where they lived.
                    E. L. Starling says, concerning this work: 
                        There were but two surveyors and twenty-eight whites and four or five
                            colored tithables to do the work required over the whole line of twenty
                            miles, a work which included clearing, grubbing, leveling, filling and
                            ditching thirty feet wide. From the list of men appointed to do this
                            work, the reader may form an idea of the population of the country at
                            this time, remembering, of course, that many of those named lived fully
                            five, and some eight, miles from the line of the road.
                    
            
            Jesse Kimball and the Roelofsons probably continued living at Knights'
                    Falls through the year 1800, since it was in July, 1800, that he and Lawrence
                    Roelofson, Jr., witnessed the signature of Adam Lawrence, Sr., to his will. The
                    two sons of Adam Lawrence were instructed in the above mentioned road order to
                    work upon the same section of road to which Jesse and the Roelofsons had been
                    assigned. All were evidently 
                  
                     34 E. L. Starling, History of 
                                    Henderson County
                                
                     , 55.
               
                     neighbors. The Lawrence farm was about
                    three miles below Spottsville, on Green river.35
            
            In 1801, the sons and sons-in-law of Lawrence, Sr., acquired lands near Highland
                    creek, southwest of Red Banks, and moved there, forming what was then called
                    Roelofson's Settlement. When, in 1843, a post office was established
                    there, the place took the name Smith Mills. The name was given in honor of Col.
                    Robert Smith, whose father, Thomas Smith, had come to Red Banks with his family
                    from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1796. Thomas Smith may have been a brother-in-law of Lawrence
                    Roelofson, Sr., who had married a Sarah Smith.36 The Smiths
                    found the low lands about Red Banks unhealthy, and removed to the higher land at
                    Roelofson's settlement. Colonel Robert was also a brother-in-law of
                    Jesse, having wedded one of Lawrence Roelofson's daughters, in 1803.37 Colonel Robert erected a horse mill at
                    Roelofson's settlement at an early day, and it is probable that Jesse
                    helped build and operate it, since he was a skillful millwright, and is known to
                    have engaged in milling in 
                        Kentucky
                    . There is nothing to indicate that he ever owned a mill there
                    himself.
            A paragraph descriptive of Smith Mills, taken from E. L. Starling History of 
                            Henderson County
                        
               , pictures conditions as Jesse must have found them when he
                    went with the Roelof-sons from Knight's Falls to the new settlement
                    near Highland creek.
            
                    It is a village located at the junction of the Henderson and Morganfield and
                        the Henderson and Mt. Vernon roads. It is situated upon high rolling land,
                        and is one of the prettiest natural locations to be found anywhere. The
                        section of country comprising this voting precinct was originally as wild as
                        the early pioneer could wish; and not very many years anterior to its
                        settlement, it was inhabited by bear, wild cats, wolves, panthers, and
                        endless numbers of deer and wild turkeys. Bear were known in this part of
                        the country as late as 1835. In early times this precinct was known as
                        Rowlanson's Settlement, taking its name from that of William
                        Rowlanson and several brothers, who were probably the first settlers.
                
            The little community, from a moral standpoint at least, must have been a superior
                    one. The Roelofsons were un- 
                  
                     35 Records County Court Clerk, Henderson, Ky. Will
                            Book A, pages 5-6-7. Deed Book "A", page 106.
                  
                     36
                            Genealogy of the Rulison, Rulifson, Ruliffson
                            Families, 171. 
                  
                     37 Starling, History of
                                        
                           Henderson County,
                                        Kentucky
                        
                     , 672.
               
                     doubtedly people of piety. We read in
                    histories of religious development in 
                        Kentucky
                    , that Lawrence Rollison was one of the young men licensed in 1802
                    by the Transylvania presbytery to "exhort and catechize."38 It was the revoking of this license of Lawrence Roelofson
                    and others by the commission of synod of 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1805, that led to the formation of the Cumberland Presbyterian
                        church.39 The Great Revival that began its sweep over 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1800, won numerous converts in the western part of the state.
                    There were not enough regularly trained preachers to meet the needs of the
                    growing congregations, hence the appointment of untrained and probably scantily
                    educated men such as Lawrence Roelofson, Jr., and his associates. Reverend James
                    McGready, the leader of the revival, spent his last days in 
                        Henderson county
                    , ministering to several congregations, one of which was at
                    Roelofson's settlement.40
            
            In spite of the stirring scenes amid which much of Jesse's early life
                    had been spent, he had always remained a farmer at heart. He was never in a
                    locality for any length of time without acquiring a piece of land. The real
                    estate records of 
                        Henderson county
                     show that on January 1, 1801, he received a deed for 150 acres of
                    land in that county, paying the sum of $200 therefor. The land was
                    located at the present Smith Mills. Lawrence Roelofson obtained title to a
                    portion of the same tract of land on the same day. His name appears as one of
                    the witnesses to the signature of the deed to Jesse's land. We have
                    already mentioned the fact that Jesse and Lawrence, Jr., each acquired
                    preemption rights to 200 acres of land in 
                        Hopkins county
                    .
            In 1807 Jesse sold his farm in 
                        Henderson county
                    , together with some live stock. The deed for the land was dated
                    January 6, 1808. He fell into a dispute with Elias Turner, the purchaser of the
                    land; and the records of the suits to which the dispute led still exist in 
                        Henderson county
                    .41 From them may be gathered much concerning
                    the life of the time. The 
                  
                     38 James Smith, History of the
                                Cumberland Presbyterian Church, 593.
                  
                     39 Rev. Robert Davidson, The History
                                of the Presbyterian Church in 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 239. J. H. Spencer, History of
                                Kentucky Baptist I., 527.
                  
                     40 Smith, History of the Cumberland
                                Presbyterian Church, 672.
                  
                     41 Records Circuit Court Clerk, Henderson, 
                                Kentucky
                            . Case No. 1216, Jesse Kimball vs. Elias Turner. Case No.
                            1238, Elias Turner vs. Jesse Kimball.
               
                     suits involved sundry wild hogs bearing
                    Jesse's "mark." Turner asserted that the hogs he had
                    bargained for with the land in 1807 had been sold again to one Abner Lee, and
                    that he had been refused permission to hunt them. He asked damages. Abner Lee
                    testified that he had bought only tame hogs. from Kimball, and that Turner had
                    said to him: 
                        He would be glad if Kimball would hurry and get all his hogs away, for,
                            says he, Kimball has given me the privilege, after he gets all the hogs
                            away that can be collected of his, to take any of the wild hogs of his
                            that I can find, and I wish to turn out to hunting as I am informed that
                            Kimball has a large stock of hogs which had run away several years
                            before.
                    
            
            The arbitrators, appointed under authority of a 
                        Kentucky
                     law enacted in 1795,42 awarded thirty dollars
                    damages to Turner on November 15, 1810, for "detention of his
                    claims," but decided that "Kimball is not to be liable for
                    anything that happened to said wild hogs heretofore."
            Removal
                    to
                    the Indiana Frontier
            
            The following extract from Tartt History of 
                            Gibson County
                        
               , doubtless based on interviews with pioneers and their
                    descendants, relates to Jesse Kimball's residence in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and to his removal to Indiana: 
                        Jesse Kimball, born in 
                                Connecticut
                            , March 23, 1760, served in the Revolutionary War, and about
                            1795, came down the Ohio River to Red Banks, now
                            Henderson, 
                                Kentucky
                            , where he settled and soon afterward built a horse mill. He
                            lived here and engaged in milling, farming and trading with the Indians
                            for several years. He had some difficulty with the
                            "Redskins," and one time, while he was out in a maple
                            grove making sugar, they came and burned his cabin and carried off
                            everything of value that suited their fancy. Becoming dissatisfied with
                            his location, he crossed the river and came north into Indiana Territory
                            and made a settlement in the southeast quarter of section 34, township 3
                            south, range 12 west. The date of his arrival is about the same as that
                            of Thomas Montgomery, in 1805. The spot which he selected for his home
                            was upon the site of an old Indian village, and his cabin stood near a
                            large perennial spring of pure cold water. About 1810, he built and
                            operated a water mill on Black River, a few hundred
                            yards east of his cabin. He subsequently constructed a horse mill which
                            was in operation as late as 1840. He planted an apple orchard on his
                            place which 
                        
                           42 Humphrey Marshall, History
                                        of 
                                            Kentucky
                                        
                           , II, 175.
                     
                             was in bearing as early as 1812 or
                            1814. ∗∗∗ He was
                            very fleet of foot, and frequently had foot races with the Indians. On
                            one occasion, in a trial of speed, he beat a chief running, which so
                            disgusted the Indian that he declared that he would not run again.
                    
            
            A resident of southern Indiana who is familiar with many details of
                    Jesse's life, adds an interesting sequel to the above mentioned race
                    with the Indian chief.44 He says that Jesse had no sooner
                    won the race than he realifced that his victory would probably cause him trouble
                    in the future, since the Indians had grown sullen and discontented and were
                    murmuring among themselves. With great sagacity and diplomacy, he therefore
                    announced that the race had been won unsatisfactorily, and proposed that the
                    chief run with him again. When nearing the goal in the second race, Jesse
                    purposely stumbled and fell. The Indian was acclaimed the victor, good humor
                    returned to his followers, and a situation that might have led to serious
                    consequences was averted.
            Considerable uncertainty exists as to the date when Jesse established his
                    residence in Indiana. We have just seen that the Tartt history represents him as
                    moving there about 1805. The same history, in another place, gives 1804 or 1805
                    as the date. It will be recalled that Jesse himself names ten years as the
                    length of his residence in 
                        Kentucky
                    . This, if taken literally, would bring us to 1804.
            Among the executive orders of William Henry Harrison, Governor of Indiana
                    Territory, we find one issued to Captain William Hargrove, Commander of Rangers,
                    directing him to attend a meeting which would be held at Mr. Kimbles, who lives
                    on the site of the old 
                        Delaware
                     town, eighteen or twenty miles southwest of Mr. Severns. The
                    meeting was for the purpose of arranging for the protection of settlers going to
                    the salt works west of the Wabash river.45 This order, dated September 12, 1807, contains the earliest official
                    mention of Jesse's residence in southern Indiana, of which we have any
                    knowledge.
            A great-great-grand daughter48 of Jesse living on the old
                    Kimball farm states that he moved his family there March 
                  
                     44 Told the writer by Rev. D. B. Montgomery,
                            Owensville, Ind., author of a Genealogy of the Montgomery Family. G. W.
                            B.
                  
                     45 W. M. Cocekrum, Pioneer
                            History of Indiana. 216.
                  
                     46 Mrs. Graoe Rogers.
               
                     11, 1808, and planted his corn in June.
                    This statement finds some support in the testimony of Abner Lee, a witness in
                    the suit brought by Elias Turner, 
                        that in the fall of the year 1808, Kimball employed this deponent to
                            collect all of the said Kimball's hogs that he possibly could
                            collect, and that when collected to drive the said hogs to the said
                            Kimball's present residence in 
                                Knox county
                            , Territory of Indiana.
                    
            
            The apparent conflict in the dates given for Jesse's removal from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana, ranging as they do from 1804 to 1808, may be due to the
                    differing view points of the persons whose statements are under consideration.
                    His removal to the home on Black river had evidently been
                    planned long and carefully. It is clear that he had explored the region north of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     very thoroughly, and that his attention had been attracted to the
                    site on Black river long before he moved his family there,
                    probably even before 1804, the year when southern Indiana was opened to
                    settlers. An old hunter told him of the location,47 an
                    exceptionally desirable one owing to the fact that on it was an ever-flowing
                    spring of pure cold water. The 
                        Delaware
                     Indians had made it the site of one of their towns, doubtless on
                    account of the spring, and many interesting Indian relics have been collected in
                    that vicinity. It is practically certain that it was from the Indian village on
                    this site that Mrs. Talbot and her little son were rescued by discharged U. S.
                    soldiers from 
                        Vincennes
                    , in the year 1793.48
            
            Jesse probably erected a temporary dwelling on the newly selected land before he
                    transferred his family there; and this habitation was presumably the place
                    referred to by Governor Harrison as "Mr. Kimbles."
            Jesse did not sever his connection with 
                        Henderson county
                     completely, even after he transferred his family to Indiana, but
                    passed back and forth at frequent intervals. Elias Turner, in an affidavit made
                    in 
                        Henderson
                    , January 1, 1810, states that "the defendant Kimball is
                    itinerant here only, and he believes will shortly depart this
                    commonwealth." Jesse was there as late as 1812, when he executed the
                    power of attorney for disposing of the 
                        Hopkins county
                     claim.
            
               
                  47 Told by Rev. D. B. Montgomery.
               
                  48 Cockrum, Pioneer History of
                        Indiana, chapter V.
            
            
            An oft-quoted tradition to the effect that Jesse moved from 
                        Henderson county
                    , because of trouble with the Indians lacks credibility, since in
                    crossing into Indiana, he was certainly going into a region far more seriously
                    menaced by Indians than western 
                        Kentucky
                     was at that time. It is true that the Indians burned his house in 
                        Henderson county
                    . They came while the family was away from home, and the fire was
                    proved to have been their work when, shortly after the destruction of his home,
                    Jesse saw an Indian wearing a shawl that had been one of the prized possessions
                    of his wife.49 It had been taken in the general looting of
                    the house that preceded its destruction. It is said that he had incurred the
                    enmity of certain Indians by refusing to give them whiskey on some occasion when
                    they demanded it. The burning of his Home may have been because of this refusal.
                    The millers of those days were accustomed to operate stills in connection with
                    their grist mills,50 as in that way any surplus grain could
                    be converted into a product that could be conveyed a great distance with
                    comparative ease. The nearest market for their produce was 
                        New Orleans
                    , and the product of the stills was less bulky to transport and less
                    liable to damage from weather than the grain itself. The Indians undoubtedly
                    knew that he made "fire water," and his unwillingness or
                    inability to furnish it upon demand would very naturally have aroused their
                    resentment. It is probable, however, that his removal from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana was due to the appeal to him of the latter place as a
                    farming region, and not to his fear of the Indians in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            An additional extract from Tartt, History of 
                            Gibson County
                        
                shows some of the conditions under which Jesse and his
                    associates lived: 
                        These pioneer settlers experienced a great many hardships in locating in
                            a wilderness, far distant from civilization, surrounded by wild beasts
                            and the fiercer red men, and it was only the bravest and most 
                        
                           49 Sketch of Jesse Kimball written by his
                                    grandson, Elisha Jones.
                        
                           50 John C. Leffel, History of 
                                            Posey County
                                        , Indiana.
                                    Robinson's Township–Charles Kimball
                                        obtained permission from the County Commissioner∗
                                        to build a mill at the bridge where the 
                                            Evansville
                                         and 
                                            New Harmony
                                         road crosses Big Creek
                                        ∗∗∗ These mills had a
                                        capacity of from 15 to 25 bushels a day. The miller was
                                        compelled to carry on some other kind of business in
                                        connection with his mill to support his family. In many
                                        cases distilleries were run in connection with
                                them.
                        
                     
                             stalwart men that undertook the
                            task. They lived mostly on the wild meats of the forest, cultivating at
                            first only small patches of Indian corn, which was tended with rifle in
                            hand. Old Red Banks or Henderson, 
                                Kentucky
                            , was the nearest point at which they could get the corn
                            ground, and then with a horse-mill, waiting sometimes two or three days
                            for their turn at the mill. A trip was usually made about once a year to
                            the Saline wells in 
                                Southern Illinois
                            , a distance of about seventy miles, for a supply of salt,
                            for which they paid $2.50 per bushel, and carried it home on
                            horseback. There was always a fear of the savages, and the pioneer was
                            always prepared for an attack. They were, however, very fortunate in not
                            being disturbed.
                    
            
            Colonel Cockrum, in his Pioneer History of Indiana, gives the
                    following details of Jesse's early life in Indiana: 
                        In 1810, Jesse Kimball built a flutter-wheel water mill on
                                Black River about six miles south of
                            Owensville, Indiana, and ground corn for himself and few neighbors for
                            several years. Mr. Kimball came to that neighborhood in 1804 from the
                            Red Banks, now Henderson, 
                                Kentucky
                            , and took the burrs with him from Henderson with a horse in
                            the shafts and a pole through the stones for an axle.
                    
            
            A cane made from a mud sill of the above-mentioned mill, now in the possession of
                    one of Jesse's descendants in southern Indiana, shows that the sill was
                    black walnut. That valuable wood was common in Indiana in pioneer days.
            In moving his family from 
                        Henderson county
                     to the new home north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , Jesse was fortunate in not being obliged to hew his way through
                    pathless forest. An old Indian trail led from Red Banks to 
                        Vincennes
                    , passing within a few miles of Jesse's home. It was known
                    as the Red Banks trail, and could be traversed by vehicles. It was patrolled for
                    some time in order to protect the immigrants from the Indians.51 Without doubt it was over this trail that Jesse traveled in his unique
                    vehicle with mill-stones for wheels and a pole through them for an axle.
            Later Life
                    in Indiana
            
            The statement in Jesse's pension application, made in 1847, that he had
                    then lived in 
                        Gibson county
                     about thirty-eight years, is clearly one of the approximations
                    characteristic of 
                  
                     51 George R. Wilson, Early Indiana
                                Trails and Surveys, 392-295; Indiana Hstorical
                                Society Publications, Vol. 6, No. 3.
               
                     his later years. At the time of making the
                    application, we know that he had made his home in 
                        Gibson county
                     certainly forty years and probably longer.
            During these forty years he must have gained a reputation for good judgment and
                    common sense, since the Tartt history records that in 1813 he was appointed one
                    of the three appraisers for the first estate probated in the 
                        Gibson county
                     court. He must also have enjoyed the good will and esteem of his
                    neighbors as well, for while he occupied his Black river
                    farm as early as 1807, he obtained no patent to the land until 1818. That he
                    could retain possession of a farm for eleven years by merely living on it, in
                    the days when claim-jumping and murderous fights over land were not uncommon, is
                    an indication of the regard in which he was held in the community. A local
                    historian who knew him said: 
                        He would have been a bold man indeed who would have dared to interfere
                            with the land ownership of one so respected and beloved as Jesse Kimball
                                was.62
                  
                    
            
            The records of 
                        Posey county
                     show that in May, 1819, he was appointed guardian of his grandsons,
                    John and Charles J. Kimball, sons of Jesse W. and Sarah Kimball, their father
                    having died.53 Charles J. reached the age of sixteen in the
                    year 1831. In 1832 the court granted him the right to choose his own guardian
                    and he chose Jesse. Jesse probably continued in this relation until Charles was
                    twenty-one years of age.
            John L. Grimes, an attorney-at-law in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, who submitted Jesse's pension application to 
                        Washington
                     in 1847, stated in his letter to the war department that when he
                    asked Jesse to whom he could refer for information concerning his honesty and
                    veracity, the answer came promptly and proudly, "Anyone within fifty
                    miles, who knows me." Accompanying his pension application were
                    affidavits from three of his old friends and neighbors who were glad to testify
                    to his character. These men were the Reverend Joseph Was-son, John Sharp and
                    William Sharp, Sr. They stated that they had been acquainted with him from
                    twenty to forty years.
            
               
                  52 Told by Rev. D. B. Montgomery.
               
                  53 See note 5.
            
            
            In his old age, Jesse was frequently furnished a carriage or hack in which to
                    ride in Fourth of July processions or on other patriotic occasions, owing to his
                    being a Revolutionary war veteran.54 Persons now living
                    remember seeing Jesse and other aged veterans riding in a carriage which, as a
                    mark of special honor, was drawn by men instead of horses.
            The later years of his life seem to have been quiet and uneventful, spent on his
                    farm and in his mill, and offering a decided contrast to his earlier life. He
                    had done his part, slight though it was, in freeing his country from the
                    domination of the British; he had helped to subdue the fierce Indian tribes; and
                    his sturdy manhood must have contributed appreciably to the betterment of each
                    of the pioneer communities in which he found himself. That he possessed ability,
                    energy, initiative and foresight is clear when we remember that in addition to
                    setting up one of the earliest mills in 
                        Gibson county
                    , he is said to have built the first frame house and burned the
                    first brick kiln.55 The following quotation from a letter
                    written by his granddaughter, Mrs. Harris, attests his mechanical ingenuity:
                        
                        I remember a man calling him a Yankee. Grandpa had been repairing his
                            carriage. He made the springs so there was a rocking motion instead of
                            the ordinary springing motion. The man laughingly said, "My!
                            these Yankees are a contriving race."
                    
            
            As age with increasing feebleness and blindness came upon him, we can imagine the
                    comfort that he derived from the devotion of the sons and daughters who married
                    and made their homes near the old home place. His faithful wife, Elizabeth, died
                    in 1843; and after her death, his daughters, Sarah Kimball Jones and Cynthia
                    Kimball Knowles, were especially 
                  
                     54 Prom letter by Major George W. Kimball, Mt.
                            Vernon, Indiana, March 10, 1920. 
                        ∗∗∗ It was in 1856 on the
                                4th of July when I witnessed at a public gathering (a Celebration)
                                in one of the villages, either in or near Cynthiana, 
                                    Posey
                                 Co., Indiana, seated In an open vehicle, two
                                Revolutionary soldiers. One was Jesse Kimball, leaning upon a staff;
                                the other Revolutionary soldier was said to be a man by the name of
                                Wiley of whom I know nothing, but the incident, which includes quite
                                a number of men in the scene, drawing these old soldiers with a rope
                                attached to the vehicle amid a good deal of patriotic pride and
                                enthusiasm.
                            From letter by John M. Grimes, attorney, 
                                    Evansville
                                , Indiana, August 2, 1847. Also see note 19.
                  
                  
                     55 See note 49.
               
                     devoted to him. He died November 18, 1857,
                    aged about ninety-seven years, and was buried beside his wife in the family
                    graveyard on the farm. The grave of each is marked by a sandstone slab bearing
                    some simple carving the work of a member of the family.56
            
            The old "burying ground" cannot but make a strong appeal to
                    Jesse's descendants. In it lie generation after generation of Kimballs.
                    Jesse's father and mother rest there, together with his sisters,
                    Margaret, Amy and Thankful, and his nephew and son-in-law, Jesse W., although
                    none of these graves can be located.57 The old farm also
                    awakens a deep sentimental interest. It is still in the possession of one of his
                    descendants. Seven generations of Kimballs have quenched their thirst at the old
                    spring.
            Before his death, Jesse transferred the farm to his son, Isaac. The transfer was
                    made in three different transactions, each involving one-third of the land, in
                    1849, 1851 and 1852 respectively. Jesse was then past ninety years of age.
                    Blindness had even then come upon him, and the last two of the deeds were signed
                    by a mark as he could no longer see to affix his signature. The distribution of
                    the small amount of personal property remaining after his death was made by the
                    court February 8, 1859.58
            
            The influences that led Jesse's father and mother to leave their old 
                        New England
                     home and follow their son to the new location in the west were
                    typical of the pioneer period. The move, both of the parents and of the brother,
                    Isaac, and his sons, must have been a result of the visit Jesse made to 
                  
                     56 Inscriptions in Kimball family burying ground
                            near the old home on Black river, 
                                Gibson county
                            , Indiana. Sacred to the memory of Jesse Kimball who
                                departed this life November 13th, 1857, aged 97 years, 8 months.
                            Sacred to the memory of Elizabeth Kimball, consort of Jesse Kimball,
                                Senr., who departed this life december 4th 1843 aged 70 years. She
                                was a believer in the Christian religion, and died in the tryumph of
                                faith.
                            An old foot stone leaning against a fence and inscribed J. W. K.
                                probably once marked the grave of Jesse W. Kimball. G. W. B.
                  
                  
                     57 Extract from Sarah J. Carter's letter: 
                                
                           
                              
                                 Sarah J. Carter, of Cynthiana, 
                                                  Posey
                                                 Co., Indiana, daughter of Jesse
                                                Kimball's youngest daughter, Mahala, writes
                                                Aug. 4, 1920: "Yes, I have heard one of the
                                                ancestors spoken of as old Aunt Thankful; also an
                                                old maid sister named Peggy lived and died at
                                                Jesse's home and was buried in the family
                                                cemetery. I remember hearing the older ones of the
                                                family speak of Aunt Thankful."
                              
                           
                        
                            
                  
                  
                     58 Probate Order Book No. 2, Page 19,
                                    
                        Princeton,
                                    Gibson county
                     ,
                        Ind.
               
                    
                    
                        Connecticut
                     after establishing himself in 
                        Kentucky
                    . He makes a mere incidental reference to this visit in his pension
                    paper, and we know nothing more about it, but it must have been one of the most
                    far-reaching events of his life. We can imagine the stories that he told before
                    the hearths of the settlers along the way from 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Connecticut
                    . With the personal knowledge of recent Indian movements that he
                    then possessed, and fresh from that earthly paradise, 
                        Kentucky
                    , as he was, what wonder that he was entertained throughout his
                    journey with no thought of pay. Visitors from the 
                        Ohio
                     country were rare indeed in 
                        New England
                     then, and to the New Englanders who were wresting their meagre
                    livelihood from its stony barren soil, the tales that Jesse told of the lavish
                    gifts nature had poured upon the region along "La belle
                    riviere," as the French called the 
                        Ohio
                    , must have been alluring indeed. No one can know how many families
                    eventually made their way westward through the interest aroused by this one man.
                    It was just such influences that drew settlers from one region to another in
                    those days.
            In appearance, Jesse was short, stocky, fair-skinned, and possibly red-haired as
                    his father is said to have been. In accordance with the custom of the time, he
                    wore his locks long, tying them on week days with a leather thong, and on
                    Sundays with a black ribbon. He was a Whig and a staunch Methodist. He possessed
                    a genial disposition, a keen sense of humor, and a decided gift for whimsical
                    narrative. He was a true and a helpful friend to those who, like himself, were
                    striving to gain a foothold in the wilderness. Stories are still current in
                    southern Indiana illustrating this rare trait in his character.59
            
            
               
                  59 From letter of David B. Montgomery, Owensville,
                        August 24, 1921: 
                            
                        
                           
                              "By 1808, the Samuel Barr family, formerly from 
                                                Ireland
                                            , emigrated from 
                                                North
                                                Carolina
                                             through 
                                                Tennessee
                                             and 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , and crossed the 
                                                Ohio
                                             at Red Banks their destination being the
                                                Black River country. They were
                                            delayed on account of heavy rains on the Bluffs of Big
                                            Creek about one mile southeast of Cynthiana. The Platts
                                            on this side of the creek were covered with water deep
                                            enough to swim a horse. When Jesse Kimball learned that
                                            the Barrs were held up by the high water he started to
                                            meet them and invite them to become his neighbors. He
                                            rode his horse as far as he could in the water without
                                            swimming. Then he climbed upon a high stump and called
                                            to the Barrs telling them that as soon as the water was
                                            low enough he would be there with a team to help them
                                            across the flat, saying, 'I have a fine quarter
                                            section selected for you.' He fulfilled his
                                            promise and he and the Barrs remained close friends as
                                            long as they lived."
                           
                        
                     
                        
               
            
            
            He was not of the hunter-trapper-explorer type of pioneer to which Daniel Boone
                    belonged–one of those roving spirits attracted irresistibly by the
                    wilderness with its freedom and its adventure. He belonged to a class of
                    different mold, the class that made the great untamed west an abode of
                    home-builders. Fate seemed to mark him as fitted for this special task. More
                    than once he was spared experiences that might have ended his career. He was
                    discharged from the garrison at 
                        New London
                     but a short time before the Arnold raid, when nearly everyone at
                    Fort Griswold was massacred; he missed accompanying the disastrous St. Clair
                    campaign by only a few days; he received his discharge from the Indian war only
                    a short time before the decisive battle of Fallen Timbers. Furthermore, by the
                    fact that a river captain became afraid to go any farther, he missed returning
                    to 
                        New England
                     after his term of military service in the west had expired,
                    remaining to aid in establishing the empire beyond the mountains.
            The years that Jesse devoted to military service brought him no reward in the
                    form of pension or of land bounty. The failure to obtain a pension caused him no
                    concern, however, as he had ample means to sustain him. He doubtless made the
                    application at the solicitation of a lawyer. His claim was rejected because his
                    three months of Revolutionary service did not satisfy the requirement of the law
                    of that day which demanded at least six months. The three years he spent in the
                    Indian wars did not entitle him to a pension. The statement made in the letters
                    of his nephew, Isaac, to the effect that he had bounty land in 
                        Kentucky
                     is an error. The property he owned, both in 
                        New York
                     and in 
                        Kentucky
                    , was bought from private owners. His preemption right in 
                        Kentucky
                     was paid for at a price fixed by the state. His farm in Indiana was
                    purchased in 1818, at the 
                        United States
                     government price, as is shown by his old land patent which is still
                    treasured by one of his descendants.60 Neither his grave nor
                    that of his father has ever been marked officially, although certain patriotic
                    organizations make a point of placing memorial tablets on the final resting
                    places of Revolutionary soldiers. Jesse has simply been one of the pioneer
                    heroes who have failed of due recognition 
                  
                     60 The old land grant is in the possession of Miss
                            Myrtle Knowles of Petersburg, Ind.
               
                     and who will obtain it only when their
                    descendants gather the scattered bits of their life history together and make
                    them known.
            This sketch would be incomplete without the record of Jesse Kimball's
                    children. The information is taken from his family Bible and from the public
                    records of 
                  Knox, Posey
                and 
                        Gibson
                     counties in Indiana. It is as follows: 
                  Mary (Polly), born October 25, 1794; married March 5, 1822, to James
                            Gates.
                  Sarah (Sally), born March 5, 1796; married November 25, 1811, to Jesse
                            W. Kimball; married October 7, 1819 to Hullum Jones.
                  Elisha, born March 6, 1798; married June 21, 1821, to Mary (Polly)
                            Boyle.
                  Amy, born February 3, 1799; died young.
                  Marget, born February 7, 1800; died young.
                  Esther, born October 15, 1802; married March 18, 1819, to Samuel
                            Miller.
                  Isaac, born April 19, 1804; married November 10, 1825, to Phyllis Low.
                  Enoch, born May 15, 1806; married September 18, 1828, to Sarah (Sally)
                            Boyle.
                  Cynthia, born April 1, 1809; married October 20, 1825, to Ephraim
                            Knowles.
                  Mahalah, born March 3, 1812; married February 22, 1832, to William L.
                            Burton; married in 1847 to Andrew Baird.
               
            
         
         
         
            Historical News
            By The Indiana Historical Commission
            
            The third annual history conference, under the auspices of the society of Indiana
                    Pioneers, the Indiana Historical society, and the Historical commission, was
                    held on December 9th and 10th, 1921, in the Claypool hotel. This conference on
                    Indiana history which is rapidly taking on the nature of a clearing house for
                    state history, was attended this year by more than two hundred
                    people–the actual registration showed one hundred and seventy.
                    Forty-six counties in the state were represented. From the standpoint of
                    interest and attendance, the conference was by far the most successful of the
                    three that have been held.
            The Friday afternoon program was given over chiefly to a discussion of county
                    centennial plans. Those participating in the discussion included Prof. Harlow
                    Lindley, Lucy M. Elliott, Herriott C. Palmer, Mrs. H. C. Robinson, Clarence H.
                    Smith, Miles S. Cox and Eliza G. Browning.
            At the Friday evening session ex-Governor Samuel M. Ralston read an interesting
                    paper on Jonathan Jennings, the First Governor of Indiana.
            At the Saturday forenoon session, the following papers were read: The Local
                    Library–A Center for Historical Material, by William J. Hamilton,
                    secretary Indiana Public Library commission; Kinds of Material to be Preserved
                    for Historical Purposes, by Esther U. McNitt; The Value and Importance of
                    Historical Markers, by Colonel Robert L. Moor-head, and The Writing of Family
                    Histories, by Edgar T. Forsyth.
            At the Saturday afternoon session the following papers were read:
                    Indiana's Part in General Butler's Expedition to 
                        New Orleans
                    , by Rufus Dooley, 
                        Rockville
                    ; Local Pioneer History as Seen Through Local Pioneer Laws, by
                    George R. Wilson; The Possibilities of Historical Pilgrimages: (1) The Society
                    of Indiana Pioneers, by Amos W. Butler; (2) Local Organizations, by Ben F.
                    Stuart, Burnetts Creek, and Creole Customs in 
                        Old Vincennes
                    , by Miss Anna C. O'Flynn, 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            
            The annual dinner of the society of Indiana Pioneers was held on Saturday
                    evening. A talk on Some Old-Fashioned Indiana Writers, by Mrs. Demarchus C.
                    Brown, and the singing of the songs of days long gone, were the chief features
                    of the pioneer dinner program.
            A committee was appointed to arrange for the Fourth annual conference on December
                    10th and 11th, 1922. These annual conferences on Indiana history are becoming a
                    feature in promoting a keener interest in our state's history. They
                    bring together the four leading organizations in Indiana that are primarily
                    interested in state history, namely, society of Indiana Pioneers, Indiana
                    historical society, Indiana historical commission, and the history teachers
                    section of the Indiana State Teacher's association.
            The 
                        Henry County
                     historical society has the distinction of being the first local
                    historical society in the state to take advantage of the special act approved
                    March 10, 1921, enabling the board of county commissioners to employ a curator
                    to look after the work of the local historical society. Clarence H. Smith of
                    Newcastle has been named as its curator. Mr. Smith has entered upon his work and
                    is devoting his time now to classifying the collection of books, papers and
                    relics that are in the possession of the society.
            The growing interest on the part of the reading public in Indiana history is
                    strikingly illustrated by the space now devoted to this subject by the leading
                    newspapers of the state. For several months, Kate Milner Rabb, through her daily
                    column in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star under the caption, The Hoosier Listening Post has done much
                    toward arousing a greater interest in the study of pioneer history, and in the
                    preservation of old time songs, stories and historical incidents that meant so
                    much in the early life of the state. Down in the southwestern part of the state,
                    the weekly appearance of the Pocket Periscope in the 
                        Evansville
                     Courier, edited by Thomas James de la Hunt, has enlisted a large
                    school of historical students and readers in the study of southern Indiana and
                        Ohio river history. Up in the northeastern part of the
                    state, frequent articles contributed by B. J. Griswold of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Journal-Gazette, find a large number of readers. The most  recent contributor in the school of
                    historical news writers, is George S. Cottman. Since early in November, 1921,
                    Mr. Cott-man has been contributing weekly articles to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News under the caption Bits from Indiana History. No person in the
                    state is better qualified to ferret out and relate early historical incidents.
            The annual election of the 
                        Allen County
                     historical society, held November 6, 1921, resulted in the election
                    of Bert J. Gris-wold as president; Ross L. Lockridge, vice-president; Mrs. J. B.
                    Crankshaw, secretary and treasurer. Page W. Yarnelle, Mrs. A. J. Detzer, Dr.
                    Charles R. Dryer, and Jacob M. Stouder were elected to membership on the board
                    of directors. At the annual meeting a program consisting of historical papers
                    and readings was given as follows: Happy Kekiongo, Mrs. Arthur Twining; The
                    French and British Struggle, Luther Meyer; 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the Revolution, Mrs, H. A. Thomas; Little Turtle, Robert P.
                    Cordiner; Mad Anthony Wayne, J. H. Chap-pel, and The Wabash-Erie Canal, G. H.
                    Russell.
            The history of 
                        Hancock county
                     in the World war, compiled by George J. Richman of 
                        Greenfield
                    , together with a manuscript history of 
                        Clinton county
                     in the World war, have recently been filed with the collection of
                    State war records now being compiled by the Indiana historical commission. The 
                        Hancock county
                     history is the first war history to be published under the
                    provisions of an act passed during the 1921 session of the state legislature.
            A paper on the railroad wreck of October 31, 1864, by Alva 0. Reser, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , was recently prepared and filed in the Indiana State library. This
                    disaster, the worst of its kind that had occurred in the railroad history of the 
                        United States
                     up to that date, attracted nation wide attention, due to the fact
                    that the train was carrying 
                        Union
                     soldiers from 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , who were going home on a furlough, many of them to vote in the
                    elections of 1864. Thirty men were killed outright. The wreck occurred about
                    eight miles east of 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            
                    The oldest church in 
                            Orange county
                         and perhaps the oldest building in the county, a landmark
                        cherished through the passing century, will soon take its place in the
                        records of the past, as this historic edifice,  formerly the property of the Society of
                        Friends, and known as the Lick creek meeting house, has been sold and is now
                        being torn down.
                    This house of worship, the first Protestant church in this part of the
                        country, was built early in 1813. In the latter part of the year 1812, a
                        group of 
                            Quaker
                         pioneers came here from 
                            North Carolina
                        . Legends have been handed down telling of the devotion of these
                        settlers to their religious beliefs, and recording that the log meeting
                        house was completed before any of the homes were erected. The Friends lived
                        in their "schooners" or in rude shelters until the church
                        building was completed. ∗∗∗
               
                    The history of the church is inseparably entwined with the history of the
                        county. It was this group of settlers who came from 
                            Orange county
                        , Carolina, who gave to the county its name. Also, to one of the
                        leaders of these 
                            Quaker
                         pioneers, Jonathan Lindley, who was appointed first county
                        agent, belongs the honor of laying out and naming the county seat, Paoli.
                        This was done in 1816.
                    A number of widely known women preachers among the Quakers of early days came
                        from this congregation. Among them was Amy Moore, who was known throughout
                        southern Indiana for her missionary zeal. Another woman, praised for her
                        evangelistic work in early times, was Eleanor Chambers, who grew up in this
                        church and began her work here.
                    Famous underground stations during Civil war days also were found in this
                        community, and many fugutive slaves found their way in safety to the north
                        through the efforts of the Lick creek Quakers.
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News, January 20, 1922.
                
            November 12, 1921, the 
                        Orange County
                     historical society-was organized in Paoli. The following officers
                    were elected: Alfred W. Bruner, Paoli, president; L. C. Ralston, Orleans,
                    vice-president; Anna Maris, Paoli, secretary, and Will Cave, French Lick,
                    treasurer. The first regular meeting of the society was held in the courthouse,
                    Paoli, November 19, at which meeting a constitution was adopted, and forty-four
                    charter members were voted into the society. Papers and talks were given by Miss
                    Jennie Throop, Miss Mary Shirley, Senator Oscar Ratts, Wilbur Brooks, J. A.
                    McCoy, Aaron Maris, Miss Ferguson and Jesse M. Trinkle on various subjects
                    pertaining to 
                        Orange county
                    's history. The next regular meeting of the society was
                    held February 2, 1922, the 106th anniversary of the organization of 
                        Orange county
                    . To the credit of 
                        Orange county
                     it is the first of the county historical societies to observe the
                    clause in their constitution which provides for filing duplicates of all papers
                    read at their regular meetings with  the
                    Indiana historical commission. Already the historical commission has received a
                    copy of two valuable papers read at the February meeting. The first of these is
                    by the president, Alfred W. Bruner, on Early Trails and Indian Treaties, while
                    the second is by Jesse Trinkle, entitled A Brief History of Public Buildings of 
                        Orange County
                    , as shown by the records of the Board of County Commissioners of 
                        Orange County
                    , 1816-1916. If the other local societies in the state would follow
                    the precedent set by the 
                        Orange county
                     society, there can be collected in one central
                    place,–the Indiana state library,–a priceless collection
                    of papers on local history such as has never yet been assembled in the state.
            The 
                        Washington County
                     historical society seems to be showing greater signs of activity
                    than any other local society in the state. Under the leadership of Mrs. Harvey
                    Morris, its president, the society has been reorganized under the township plan,
                    a chairman being selected for each township. As an indication of the success of
                    this plan, P. H. Gill, chairman of Polk township, reported at the November and
                    December meetings of the society, one hundred and six new members together with
                    a collection of numerous and valuable old relics. Other townships were
                    represented at the December meeting by the different chairmen of each and
                    reported many new accessions to the society, as well as many contributions to
                    its museum. This society has its home in the courthouse at 
                        Salem
                    , and has already in its collection many articles of historical
                    value.
            In the organization of the 
                        Randolph County
                     historical society much credit will have to be given to O. H.
                    Greist, superintendent of schools of that county. At the 
                        Randolph county
                     teachers institute held on Saturday, November 5, a representative
                    of the Indiana historical commission was present and urged the organization of a
                    local society in 
                        Randolph county
                    . As a result of the appeal, a permanent organization was formed
                    with Philip Kabel as president; O. H. Greist, vice-president; and Judge A. L.
                    Bales, secretary and treasurer. Plans for a further organization will be
                    perfected by Mr. Kabel which means success for the work of this society in the
                    future.
            
            Many important events have taken place in the old capitol building at Corydon
                    since its erection in 1811. On Saturday, Nov. 19, in response to a call sent out
                    by the newspapers, a representative number of people gathered beneath the roof
                    of the old state house for the purpose of organizing a local historical society.
                    Lucy M. Elliott, representing the Indiana historical commission, was present and
                    urged the necessity of such an organization in 
                        Harrison county
                    . An organization was perfected with 55 charter members and the
                    following officers were elected for the year 1922: Miss Jennie Griffin,
                    president; Lew M. O'Bannon, vice president; Thomas J. Wilson,
                    secretary; and George Reuter, treasurer. A program committee was appointed to
                    outline plans for the work of the society during the year 1922.
            To 
                        Jasper county
                     belongs the credit of organizing the first local historical society
                    in Indiana in 1922. January 10 a meeting was held at the home of Mrs. John I.
                    Gwin, of 
                        Rensselaer
                    . A representative of the historical commission had been invited to
                    be present and explain the necessity of such an organization, and the plans of
                    the state for cooperation with local societies. The following officers were
                    elected: C. R. Dean, city superintendent of schools, president; Mrs. Charles W.
                    Hanley, vice president; L. H. Hamilton, secretary; and Mrs. Mary E. Drake,
                    treasurer. Various other committees were appointed, and plans made for the
                    compilation of the 
                        Jasper county
                     war history.
            The month of December, 1921, recorded the organization of the 
                        Crawford county
                     historical society at English. The following persons were elected
                    to office: H. H. Pleasant, president; Arthur H. Flanigan, vice president; Miss
                    Lou Thorn-bury, secretary and treasurer. Mr. Pleasant is county superintendent
                    of schools, and is writing a history of 
                        Crawford county
                     that will soon be published in book form. This history will contain
                    also a history of the World war activities in 
                        Crawford county
                    . One of the immediate projects of the society, is the purchase of
                    five acres of ground near English, on which is located the monument in honor of
                    William H. English, for a city park. With two such undertakings in  mind, it can be safely said that 
                        Crawford county
                     has work ahead of it.
            November 19, 1921, a committee composed of members of the Indiana historical
                    society, called a meeting and organized a 
                        Carroll county
                     historical society. John C. Odell, local historian, was chosen
                    chairman. The first regular meeting of the society was held on Saturday,
                    December 31, 1921, at the public library in 
                        Delphi
                    . A representative of the historical commission was present and
                    outlined the plans of the state for the year 1922. According to the constitution
                    of the society, the annual election of officers takes place on December 31, and
                    the following officers were elected: William C. Smith, president; John C. Odell,
                    vice president; Mrs. Charles Buckley, secretary and treasurer; directors, Ben F.
                    Stuart, Mrs. W. A. Breining, Mrs. Henry Wilson, William Gros, and Mrs. Thad-deus
                    Guthrie; committee on township history, Mrs. Charles Buckley, Mrs. N. W. Bowen
                    and Ben F. Stuart; committee on membership, Mrs. W. H. Robinson, Mrs. Mae
                    Sibbitt and Mrs. Harry Arnold. The second regular meeting of the society was
                    held January 21. The following program consisting of ten minute talks was given:
                    The Beginning of Commercialism in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Ben F. Stuart; The Best Way to Obtain the Early History of 
                        Carroll County
                    , Charles Buckley; Who Were the Most Noted Pioneer Men and Women of 
                        Carroll County
                    , M. Sterling and John C. Odell; The Indian Reservations in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Date of Grant and Location, Amount of Land, and Their Passing of
                    Title with Consent of Government, Harry Arnold.
            Armistice day, November 11, 1921, was generally celebrated throughout the state
                    of Indiana by programs, patriotic and social in nature. No more beautiful or
                    appropriate program was given in the state than the celebration of this event in 
                        Evansville
                    . The program consisted first of a parade in which marched the
                    soldiers of three wars, the Service Star legion, Labor Union members, civic
                    organizations, and representatives of every walk of life, the number of marchers
                    estimated from 5,000 to 7,000; and a pageant immediately following the parade
                    given in the Coliseum. Mrs. Albion Fellows Bacon was the author of the pageant,
                    and Mrs. E. A. Torrance,  the director. The
                    subject of the pageant was Disarmament, and was written for the express purpose
                    of showing t he horrors of war and the blessings of peace. The theme of the
                    first act was war, accompanied by the attending spirits of death and famine; and
                    the theme of the second act peace, enthroned on the earth surrounded by smiling
                    nations and happy flower-laden children. The concluding song, Peace to the
                    Nations, emphasized the central theme of the pageant, Disarmament of Nations to
                    insure permanent peace. It was an all 
                        Evansville
                     pageant and reflected great credit upon its author and those
                    supporting her in its production. The crowd seeing the pageant and parade was
                    estimated at fifteen thousand.
            When driving "Ade-Way" in 
                        Newton county
                    , do not forget to stop at the sign of the "Open Door
                    Museum and Home of the Round Table Club" located at Goodland, Indiana;
                    and while visiting this museum do not miss hearing the story of its founding
                    from the lips of the man who has spent thirty-six years in its up-building for
                    the benefit of the boys and girls of Goodland. A. D. Babcock, sole founder and
                    owner, will tell you that several years ago he came to the conclusion that
                    "one could amuse himself at home." Selecting as his source of
                    amusement the gradual development of an historical collection of articles of
                    rare value, he today can boast of having the best collection of historicl relics
                    in northwestern Indiana. Mr. Babcock does not confine his efforts to Indiana
                    alone, but has in this collection relics of historical value from Africa, Asia
                    and Europe. Already the museum building is too small. Plans are under way for
                    its enlargement, after which he hopes to invite all of the noted orators of the 
                        United States
                     to speak before the Round Table Club and in this way put Goodland,
                    as he says, on the map as a cultural center. Should this project reach the
                    proportions outlined by Mr. Babcock, 
                        Newton county
                     will be noted for two national attractions, George Ade, the
                    humorist, and the "Open Door Museum" of Goodland. Mr. Babcock
                    is also the author of a volume of verse, "The Silver Oar."
         
      
      
         
      
   
