
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 40, Issue 2, pages 103-206. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:40+issue:2+year:1944&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Death of Nancy Hanks Lincoln
            PHILIP D. JORDAN
            Inside the cabin there was sickness. For almost a week the woman had ailed until now she no longer
                    could struggle to a position from which she might glimpse the autumn foliage which was touching
                    Pigeon Creek with color. As Nancy Hanks Lincoln saw the rude log house, unfinished for more than a
                    year, she may have felt that Indiana in 1818 was not quite the promised land to which she had so
                    readily agreed to go. Her bedstead, a crude affair of poles stuck between the logs in a corner of
                    the cabin, sagged when she shifted so that she might see the heavy log-hewn table, the three-legged
                    stools, the iron pot and spider, and the tin and pewter dishes. Sifting into the loft through
                    unchinked logs, the October wind shuffled the leaves upon which her son, Abe, slept. Then the
                    weakness and dizziness came again.
            The settlers of Pigeon Creek knew what that meant. Thomas Lincoln had coffined Betsy and Thomas
                    Sparrow and only about a week earlier had helped bury Peter Brooner's wife whose home was
                    half a mile away. The mysterious milksickness, known in 
                        North Carolina
                     since colonial days, was following the frontier, stalking the pioneer as stealthily as
                    the hunter tracked the deer. It attacked milch cows as well as men and was called by many names.
                    Some knew it as the "trembles," the "staggers," the "tires" or "slows,"
                    and the "bloody murrain." Others spoke of it as "swamp sickness," "puking
                    fever," or "river sickness." Most frontiersmen, however, simply referred to it as
                    the "milk sick." And they were afraid of it, because, even though they had seen a few
                    milksick patients recover, they had watched many more die.
            What caused the disease no man knew. No remedies  prevailed
                    against it. Even the pioneer physician had nothing in his saddlebags that could halt the persistent
                    course of the disease. Neither the lancet nor the leech did anything but exhaust the patient. Heroic
                    doses of lobelia and herb infusions were only professional gestures. Within a period ranging from
                    two to nine days, most milksick victims lay decently on a cooling board. Yet, if no one understood
                    the cause of the disease, many were acquainted with its characteristic symptoms. Nancy Hanks Lincoln
                    must have manifested them all.
            No doubt she was wearied from her nursing care of the Sparrows and of Mrs. Brooner, so that she paid
                    little attention to the lassitude which forced her to rest as she went about her home chores.
                    Perhaps she gave little heed to increasing spells of dizziness and attributed her loss of appetite
                    to overexertion and fatigue. But she must have realized, when the nausea and persistent vomiting
                    came on, that the milksickness had struck. When Thomas Lincoln saw her with pain in the region of
                    the stomach and heard her, in her great thirst, ask for water, he, too, must have guessed the truth.
                    In all likelihood, he was prepared for the death of his thirty-five-year-old wife before she had
                    been ill many hours.
            No doubt the Lincolns and other settlers in the vicinity of Pigeon Creek wondered and talked about
                    the cause of this puking fever which, quiet as the forest shadows, was making the back-of-beyond a
                    place of death. Perhaps they advanced explanations and theories as other men were to do for more
                    than a hundred years before they finally solved the mystery of an endemic frontier disease which for
                    decades weakened the pioneer, took its toll of life, and baffled the medical profession. It made
                    dreadful ravages among early settlers, often causing them to break up communities and seek healthier
                    locations. Indeed, if John Hanks can be believed, it may have been among the reasons which prompted
                    Thomas Lincoln and his new wife, Sarah, to leave Indiana for the 
                        Illinois
                     country. Hanks wrote: "The Reson is this we war perplext By a Disese cald Milk
                    Sick my Self Being the oldest I was Determed to Leve and hunt a Cuntry whare the milk was
                    not…"
            It was not going to be easy, however, to find a safe location in the Old Northwest. Thomas Ashe, as
                    early as 1806, appears to have identified the milksickness among the settlers  on the Ohio River; and three years later, Thomas
                    Barbee, a 
                        Virginia
                     physician traveling through 
                        Ohio
                    , discovered the disease in the Mad River district. In 1810 and again in 1815, Daniel
                    Drake, most competent physician in the western country, published the first definite reports on the
                    "sickstomach." 
                        It has been ascribed to some noxious impregnation of the water; to the use, by the animals
                            whose milk and flesh are eaten, of some deleterious plant, and to marsh exhalation-the last
                            of which is the most plausible.
                     Drake, intrigued by the unique nature of this disease which was causing so much
                    consternation among emigrants and settlers, began to study milksickness with a determination to
                    discover its cause, pathology, and treatment. For the next twenty years, articles appeared in the
                    distinguished medical journals of the western country. Editors of periodicals such as the Transylvania Journal of Medicine and Science, the Western Journal of
                        Medicine and Surgery, and the 
                  
                            Nashville
                         Journal of Medicine and Surgery were only too glad to open their columns to
                    information which might assist the pioneer doctor in treating the scores of frontiersmen who were
                    succumbing to the murrain.
            Travelers, hunters, and settlers, penetrating the forest wilderness, all too frequently came upon
                    evidences of milk fever in backwoods communities, on river boats, and in newly turned graves.
                    William Faux talked with a farmer near old 
                        Vincennes
                     who spoke bitterly of the "trembles"; Major Stephen H. Long found it along the
                        Missouri River; and Edmund Flagg spoke of it as prevailing in certain
                    isolated districts of 
                        Illinois
                     where, he said, whole villages were depopulated so that it created a perfect panic
                    among the settlers. Physicians in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     described the disease in The Western Lancet, and the legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                     appointed a committee in 1827 to investigate the milksickness problem. In Indiana, the
                    state medical society attempted the same work. John Mason Peck, author of one of the most
                    enthusiastic guides to the West, despaired when he wrote of the milk fever and admitted sadly that
                    "physicians and others who have tried to determine its cause have had no success."
            During succeeding decades both the volume of literature and the confusion increased. Reuben G.
                    Thwaites, for example, wrote in 1906 that milksickness was "no longer so  diagnosed by medical authorities"; although even while he was penning
                    those words, new outbreaks of the disease were occurring in 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        New Mexico
                    , and physicians and laboratory researchers were still talking of milksickness. Sir
                    William Osler's Principles and Practice of Medicine, the most widely
                    consulted text of the day, still retained the old name, milksickness. To illustrate further the
                    degree of misinformation concerning milksickness which even today creeps into literature, one has
                    only to read the passages describing the disease in Bruce 
                        Lancaster
                    's novel of the Lincoln country, For Us, the Living. And
                    within the past six months, Mr. Lancaster, in the pages of The Abraham Lincoln
                        Quarterly, has asked the same questions which the Lincolns of Pigeon Creek and scores of
                    other settlers put to one another in their bewilderment. "Has this strange visitation ever been
                    explained?" wrote 
                        Lancaster
                    . "Has it ever cropped out in other parts of the country?"
            The answer to both queries is in the affirmative. The cause of milksickness was almost found by a
                    score of pioneer observers and scientists. Drake, it will be remembered, mentioned that some
                    "deleterious plant" might be the active agent; Faux related that poisonous herbs caused "trembles"
                    among cattle; Long spoke of the effect of "noxious plants"; and Flagg said that 
                        Illinois
                     settlers ascribed the disease "to the milk or to the flesh of cows feeding upon certain
                    unknown poisonous plants." The medical literature of the thirties, forties, and fifties, in
                    general, mentioned the possibility of poisonous milk caused by cows eating injurious vegetation. A
                    variety of other theories also were advanced. Poisonous dew and volatile minerals that evaporated
                    from the earth at night, condensing on the herbage, there to await ingestion by grazing herds;
                    miasmata, the early conception of a germ theory; micro-organisms; various poisonous minerals, such
                    as compounds of arsenic, copper, lead, and cobalt, as well as poisonous springs-all these were
                    advanced as explanations of the origin of the malady. In 1879, for example, the National Board of
                    Health suggested the idea that a spirillum in the blood, akin to that observed in relapsing fever,
                    was the activating agent. Two members of the bacteriological laboratory of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , in 1909, cautiously suggested that a bacillus, which they named B.
                        lactimorbi, possibly was the cause. About the same time, it was stated  positively that milksickness was due to aluminum phosphate.
            All of these theories, although they seemed based upon conclusive experimental evidence, were
                    incorrect. The solution was found only when attention once more turned back to the poisonous-plant
                    theory as advanced by the earliest commentators. Although many plants were suspectedMdashpoison ivy,
                    water hemlock, 
                        Virginia
                     creeper, coralberry, spurge, mushrooms, marsh marigoldMdashthe hunt finally centered
                    upon the white snakeroot which William Barbee, of Marshall, 
                        Illinois
                    , and David Dale Owen had identified in 1840 as Eupatorium
                    ageratoides, although it now is called Eupatorium urticaefolium. Barbee and
                    Owen, however, were not among the first to distrust the white snakeroot. In 1837 an 
                        Ohio
                     farmer definitely advanced the view that the plant, when eaten by cattle whose milk was
                    drunk by settlers, induced the disease. William J. Vermilya's thesis was published in the
                    annual report of the 
                        Ohio
                     State Board of Agriculture in 1858 and was reprinted in the report for 1873 when
                    Buckeye farmers were cautioned against the root and told that, were the plant well known, a few
                    hours would be sufficient to eradicate it entirely from any farm.
            The plant itself was not difficult to recognize. Its heads ranged from three to many flowers. The
                    flowers were perfect, involcre, cylindrical, or bell shaped with a flat receptacle. The corolla was
                    five toothed and the achenia, five angled. A perennial herb, it often was sprinkled with bitter
                    resinous dots, with generally corymboic heads of white, bluish, or purple blossoms which appear near
                    the close of summer.
            Even though Eupatorium urticaefolium was well described and substantial evidence
                    offered to prove its connection with "trembles" in cattle and milksickness in man long before the
                    turn of the nineteenth century, the Bureau of Plant Industry of the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture maintained in 1908 that "it certainly cannot be said that it
                    has been proved that milksickness is due to any constituent of Eupatorium
                        ageratoides." But intense investigation now began, and in 1917 it was demonstrated
                    conclusive- that the white snakeroot was toxic, although the active agent had not been isolated. Ten
                    years later, as the result of a long chain of biochemical and pharmacological experimentation, the
                    actual culprit was apprehended, not only in the white 
                    snakeroot, but also in jimmyweed or rayless goldenrod (Aplopappus heterophyllus)
                    and in a plant having no well-known common name, but called by botanists Aplopappus
                        fruticosus. Jimmyweed grows from southern 
                        Colorado
                     to western 
                  Texas, New Mexico
               , and 
                        Arizona
                    , and extends southward into Mexico; and Aplopappus fruticosus is
                    common to 
                  Arizona, Texas
               , and Mexico. The white snakeroot, of course, was common during
                    pioneer days to 
                  Tennessee, Kentucky
               , and the states of the Old Northwest and today grows
                    widely throughout the eastern part of the 
                        United States
                     and as far west as 
                        Minnesota, Nebraska, Oklahoma
               , and 
                        Texas
                    .
            These plants, extending over a rather broad area, contain a poisonous substance known as tremetol
                    which is the cause of milksickness. Nancy Hanks Lincoln in reality died from tremetol poisoning as
                    the result of drinking milk from a cow that had fed upon the white snakeroot. Tremetol is a viscous
                    levorotatory oil with a pleasant aromatic odor. Its chemical composition is C16H22O3. It is classed chemically with the higher
                    alcohols, is insoluble in water, acids, and alkalies and is soluble in the common organic solvents,
                    alcohol, chloroform, form, and ether. Taken into the body and digested, tremetol will produce all
                    the symptoms which Mrs. Lincoln manifested during the early days of her illness. The pronounced odor
                    of acetone which was on her breath and present in her urine (even though no frontiersmen knew of the
                    acetonurometer) was a ketosis, a condition of faulty metabolism which, in reality, was a secondary
                    manifestation of chronic tremetol poisoning.
            Nancy Lincoln, exhausted by persistent vomiting, probably was put to bed within two or three days
                    after the onset of the disease where she lay restless, her usually active mind dulled. At times
                    neighbors, such as William Wood, came and sat with her. Perhaps they ministered without her
                    knowledge, for semi-consciousness frequently closes in upon the milksick patient. Obstinate
                    constipation, a scant urine of pale color, and continued pains in the abdomen must have been
                    present. She probably complained of pain in the calves of her legs and of stiffness. Her hiccoughs
                    were of the same type as that of other victims of the murrain. Had her husband asked to see her
                    tongue, he would have observed it to be red and unusually large with a slight tremor and parched
                    into fissures of white. Her eyes were rolled upward with the pupils reacting sluggishly and the
                    ocular conjunctiva  reddened. A yellow, gummy discharge was
                    present at each canthus. The abdomen, as the disease progressed, became scaphoid and later
                    tympanites, or distention of the abdominal walls, appeared. No peristalsis was present. The patient
                    now was entering the final stages.
            If she followed the typical pattern, she lay on her back with her head turned to the side and her
                    legs drawn up with the knees spread apart. A decided odor of acetone was on the breath and in the
                    urine. Her respiration was becoming irregular and of the Cheyne-Stokes character, a succession of
                    respirations becoming progressively shorter and more shallow, then an intermission of varying
                    duration, followed by progressive increase in depth and length. Such respiration always signifies
                    approaching death. The skin became cold and clammy. Had her pulse been taken, it probably would have
                    been irregular and varying from seventy to one hundred and twenty. The temperature of all milksick
                    individuals is subnormal, and Mrs. Lincoln's probably never exceeded ninety-nine degrees.
                    Blood pressure possibly ranged from sixty-seven to ninety-five.
            Before prostration and final coma prevented it, Nancy Lincoln called her two children, Sarah and
                    Abraham, to her and told them "to be good to their father, to each other, and to reverence
                    God." Not long after that she must have slipped into complete coma and died quietly on the
                    seventh day of her illness. She passed away in OctoberMdashperhaps the fifthMdashand was buried in a
                    box made from rough lumber and joined by wooden pegs. Not until sometime later did a visiting
                    Baptist preacher visit Pigeon Creek and preach a funeral sermon over the graves of Nancy Lincoln,
                    her foster parents, and Mrs. Brooner.
            Had autopsy been an established procedure in the backwoods during the early decades of the nineteenth
                    century, a pathologist's post-mortem knife would have exposed the terrific organic changes
                    produced in Mrs. Lincoln by her seven-day sickness. The mucosa of the stomach were highly inflamed,
                    indicating an intense gastritis; both intestines were distended with gas, the reason for her
                    tympanites or "drum belly"; the mesenteric lymph nodes were enlarged and possibly inflamed; and her
                    liver was much enlarged, yellowish-red in appearance, and hard as if stuffed with fat. Although the
                    pancreas and spleen were normal, the kidneys probably were enlarged, perhaps as much as one-third.
            Further examination would have revealed fatty changes  in the
                    ventricles and perhaps edema of the heart. Many small areas of atelectasis were present in the lungs
                    which indicated a pulmonary collapse occasioned, not by a disease in the lungs themselves, but by
                    the prolonged weakness so characteristic of milksickness. The kidneys revealed intense diffuse
                    parenchymatous, an inflammation of the parenchyma, and well-defined glomerulitis, or inflammation of
                    the Malpighian bodies of the organ. Microscopic analysis would have discovered that the nuclei of
                    liver cells were greatly diminished in number. No pathological changes would have taken place in the
                    brain. Findings such as these would confirm a diagnosis of milksickness.
            Even though the cause of milksickness now has been determined, treatment of the patient is
                    precarious, relapses are common, and mortality is high. Today medical care consists of supportive
                    measures, combating the ketosis, and relieving the constipation. The use of enemas of glucose and
                    sodium bicarbonate is recognized procedure. Rest is absolutely essential, and a milk diet is
                    indicated, provided the milk is not infected. Within certain limitation, Mrs. Lincoln probably could
                    have received about as effective medical aid from her family and neighbors as any modern physician
                    could give. Most frontier housewives kept a supply of saleratus for use in baking. This could well
                    have been used as a substitute for the refined sodium bicarbonate. The woods were adequately
                    supplied with honey trees. A clyster composed of warm water, honey, and saleratus would have
                    furnished a substitute for an enema of glucose and sodium bicarbonate. Enemata apparatus was not
                    unknown to the pioneer who, if he could not afford a cheap French enema pipe, could easily
                    manufacture one-as many did-at home. A hog's bladder and a hollow reed served time and
                    again as crude, but effective, enema apparatus. Whisky usually was available on the frontier, and if
                    whisky and honey had been given Mrs. Lincoln during the early days of her illness she possibly would
                    have reacted promptly and successfully. Administration of whisky causes an ester of tremetol to be
                    formed which is less toxic and, as the result of physiological changes, helps to liberate the poison
                    and to combat the ketosis. The saleratus would have relieved the acidosis, and the enema would have
                    combatted the constipation.
            Yet with practically all the agents for treatment at hand, Mrs. Lincoln died, as did so many
                    settlers, a victim of medical ignorance and of one of the great scourges of the western
                frontier.
         
         
         
            Building A Pioneer IIome1
            
            Louis B. EWBANK
            When a boy of sixteen, my grandfather came with his parents to the territory of Indiana. He lived
                    seventy years on the farm his father hewed from the wilderness, until I was sixteen years old. He
                    had one older brother and eight younger brothers and sisters. Besides my grandfather, I remember
                    three of these; and of them, the oldest sister was buried at the same time as he, while the youngest
                    of his brothers was buried on my twenty-first birthday. Many others of the first settlers in our
                    neighborhood lived there until I was nearly grown. All of them were willing to reminisce of their
                    childhood and youth-often more willing to talk than we children were to listen. So my lack of
                    greater and more accurate knowledge of what the early settlers did and how they lived is chiefly due
                    to the inattention and faulty memory of a boy.
            Before there were any permanent settlements in southeastern Indiana, the settlement of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     had been slowly advancing westward for a number of years as a result of constant
                    encroachments on the hunting grounds of the Indians, followed by their acts of retaliation and then
                    by battles with the western militia which drove the Red Men still further back. After the Battle of
                    the Fallen Timbers, General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     compelled the defeated chieftains to sign a treaty at Greenville, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1795, which opened to white settlers the territory of southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     and a triangular strip in what is now Indiana. This triangle embraced all the land
                    between the 
                        Ohio
                    -Indiana state line and a line which forms the western boundary of 
                        Dearborn
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     counties and which extends from opposite the Kentucky River
                    northeastward to the 
                        Ohio
                     boundary. The triangle included the sites of 
                        Vevay
                    , Moores Hill, 
                        Brookville
                    , Liberty, 
                  Richmond, Lawrenceburg, Aurora
               , and Rising Sun.
            After that battle but before the treaty, while the tribes were still claiming everything west of the
                    Great Miami River under a previous treaty, two men, who had crossed the river to shoot wild hogs on
                    the western side and had camped there 
                  
                     1 Readers will be interested in a previous article by Judge Ewbank, "A
                            Real Pioneer," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVIII (June, 1942),
                            143-64.-Ed.
               
                     for the night, were murdered, presumably by Indians. It should
                    be said to the Red Men's credit, however, that they did not violate treaties once they
                    entered into them. While trading parties were constantly crossing this ceded strip for many years,
                    going to and returning from 
                        Cincinnati
                     where they sold their furs and purchased supplies, nobody feared or even thought very
                    much about the Indians after 
                        Wayne
                    's treaty was made. Sons of the settlers would play with the Indian boys at
                    ball, running, wrestling, or shooting at a mark with no more quarrelling and less ill will than
                    often attended contests between white boys from rival neighborhoods.
            So when my ancestors reached 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and learned that earlier arrivals already had taken up the public lands for half a
                    dozen miles back into the wilderness along the small stream that empties into the Ohio
                        River there from the northwest, they did not hesitate to go a mile beyond the last
                    settler to locate their claim. At first hilltops were purchased only as parts of farms that extended
                    from the valleys where the supply of water was less uncertain before wells and cisterns were dug,
                    and not all of the hilltops were appropriated that far back.
            Although these settlers had gone deepest into the woods in that direction, they were only a mile
                    beyond a neighbor who had come in as a hunter and trapper half a dozen years before. When the land
                    was opened for settlement, he had entered his half section of 320 acres on which his cabin stood and
                    had stayed to clear ground, list himself as a future purchaser, and to plant crops.
            Another mile down the creek was 
                        Cambridge
                    , a settlement of New Englanders who had come four or five years before to take up land
                    on a government warrant for service in the Revolution. They had acquired a tract which extended
                    across the valley and out on the hills at either side and embraced what was regarded as the head of
                    navigation on the creek. This was the point to which the water of the Ohio
                    River, backing into the creek in times of flood, would make it deep enough for flatboats,
                    keelboats, and light bateaus loaded there to be floated to the river. This put the settlers in close
                    touch with civilization, as typified by small clusters of log huts at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , where the inhabitants were beginning to specialize a little in the work that each
                    should do. This New 
                        England
                     settlement built an academy and was called 
                    
                        Cambridge
                     until high waters backing in from the river floods made it a ghost town. Here they had
                    built a mill, a blacksmith shop, and a wagon-making shop. They had brought in a small colony of
                    workmen which included tanners, shoemakers, and weavers. By force of necessity, all of these lived
                    partly by hunting and fishing; and each had his own garden and patches of corn, wheat, and oats
                    cultivated among the stumps and fire-scorched tree trunks in the creek bottoms.
            It was late autumn in the year 1811 when my ancestors reached their new home. They had scarcely
                    arrived when the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought 150 miles to the northwest. The Massacre of Pigeon's Roost, which
                    occurred approximately seventy-five miles southwest, and the War of 1812 soon followed. No doubt
                    these poor strangers, who had but recently left the quiet countryside of Yorkshire and until a few
                    weeks previous had been since living among the farms and towns of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                     that then had been settled more than two hundred years, wished themselves back where
                    they came from. But 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Pigeon's Roost were far away through trackless woods, and there did not
                    exist any quicker means of coming from either place than on foot or horseback. One could only thread
                    through the dense forest with its tangled undergrowth, or follow the windings of some path made by
                    wild animals, such as buffalo, elk, and deer, in their migrations, or plod along the rocky bed of a
                    crooked stream. These paths, widened by the ax of an occasional hunter, supplemented the creek bed
                    as a substitute for roads. Carts made with the wheels of wagons in which the family had crossed the
                    mountains could pick their way up and down the creek to a nearby settlement with light loads.
            The Indians having been defeated and chased away toward 
                        Canada
                     and the militia already patrolling the back country, the most immediate dangers were
                    the rigors of approaching winter and the lack of any place to plant grain or vegetables when winter
                    should be past. Temporary shelter was found in an abandoned cabin, such as squatters intent only on
                    hunting and trapping had built here and there along the streams and near the springs. Until wells or
                    cisterns should be provided, settlers, squatters, and travellers alike must depend for water on the
                    surface supply; so all the first homes were built close to streams or by flowing springs. The
                    accommodations which this cabin afforded were supplemented  by
                    temporary shelters of poles and rails roofed with wild grass, in front of which fires in the open
                    air consumed great heaps of logs. If the cold became very severe, all could crowd into the one room
                    and half-floored loft of the cabin.
            Besides this one log cabin in reasonable repair, there were the tumbled remains of two more that once
                    had stood on the creek bank within the mile-long tract which the settlers were purchasing. Each
                    squatter who had built a cabin had killed the large trees, cut down the smaller ones, and dug out
                    the bushes from a small patch of ground in which to plant corn and vegetables while he lived there.
                    During that first winter, at intervals between hunting and fishing for food, the men and boys of
                    this family worked long and hard at reopening and enlarging these small clearings in preparation for
                    spring planting. Putting in crops without plows, harrows, or planters where the stumps, large and
                    small, almost covered the ground was no light task. Wherever the sun could shine through an opening
                    in the trees on a few square feet of soil, holes for planting seeds were dug among the roots and
                    stumps with a hoe.
            By utilizing old clearings and working long hours every day to enlarge them, preparation was made
                    before spring was far advanced for planting a few small patches around which the indispensable
                    fences were constructed to keep out foraging animals, wild and tame. Fences, instead of being
                    purchased at a lumberyard in the form of sawed posts and rolls of wire with bags of staples, were
                    made in one of three ways. Posts could be split with axes and wedges from the logs of trees that had
                    been chopped down, cut into rail lengths after the limbs and brush were removed, split to fence rail
                    size, and then carried, dragged, or hauled to where they were to be used. Or a sort of fence might
                    be constructed by chopping into the sides of a succession of small trees along the line of the
                    intended fence so that each would fall upon and partly against the one before it; and then from the
                    tops of this succession of felled trees and other brush, a barrier was woven that few animals would
                    push through, especially if faced with brush from thorn trees. Or fences could be built of the
                    native stone, as were thousands of yards of fence on this farm, by picking up stones from the
                    hillsides, moving them to where the fence was wanted, and then building them  without mortar into a wall about five feet high and almost two feet
                    thick.
            Observing family worship morning and evening when they gathered for breakfast and supper, with grace
                    before and after each meal, was as much a part of the daily routine as tramping the woods with dog
                    and gun to supply meat, setting lines to catch fish, clearing the ground of trees and brush for
                    planting crops, turning the spinning wheel to make thread, or working the loom to weave cloth.
                    Everyone was expected to be diligent in all these matters from daylight until dark except the very
                    small children, who might be indulged in morning naps. Some of the neighbors had come from farther
                    south and had an expression for this as working "from kin to kaint," that is, working from
                    the time they "kin" see until, because of the gathering darkness, they "kaint" see.
            After food, their most urgent need was for shelter. All were resolved not to pass another winter
                    without better quarters than a squatter's cabin and open-faced lean-tos. A site for their
                    intended home had been selected farther down the creek on the east bank. This was near the center of
                    the square mile of forest they were purchasing about one-half mile south of the squatter's
                    cabin, and the rocky bed of the creek made a pathway through the dense growth of trees and
                    underbrush from one to the other.
            As soon as their few patches of corn and vegetables had been planted, the father and four older boys,
                    aged fourteen to nineteen years, with only axes for tools, began preparations for building a house.
                    Timber grew so thick that trees with straight trunks of nearly equal size, eighteen or twenty feet
                    long, were readily found and felled. The logs trimmed of branches were dragged and rolled to the
                    chosen site of the home close to a spring flowing into the creek. Not many weeks passed until great
                    piles of logs stacked at the four sides of a rectangle cleared of brush and stumps showed
                    preparations for a raising. This term, applied to the process of piling up logs as the walls of a
                    house or barn, designated a supreme effort of all the men for miles around to help their neighbor on
                    the great day and a gathering of their wives and daughters to prepare and serve a bounteous dinner
                    of whatever food the wilderness afforded and perhaps to sandwich in some quilting. But it also meant
                    gaiety and merrymaking after the logs walls were up and the dinner eaten.
            
            The most distinguished persons at a raising were the corner men. One at each of the four corners of
                    the building, they were responsible for the strength and solidity as well as the symmetry of the
                    structure. With no tool but an ax, no measure but his eye, no plummet but a stone or chip hung by a
                    string or piece of bark, and no scaffold but a pole laid across the corner which he was to
                    supervise, each corner man, moving higher as the building was erected, cut a notch on one side of
                    each log for a "saddle" to rest on the log below and shaped a "seat" exactly to fit it on the upper
                    side of that log. His work as to form, distance from the end of the log, and depth of cut must
                    exactly correspond with the work of the other three corner men; and each log must be set exactly
                    above the one below so that the dozen or more logs on each of the four sides would rise to the same
                    height and the ends would meet in four symmetrical corners, all perpendicular and each at a perfect
                    right angle.
            Each log was lifted by a group of men to the height of their shoulders when pike poles tipped with
                    pointed bits of iron were set under it, with which many men lifted it to the top of the log wall
                    already erected, for delivery to the corner men. Two of them, each standing on his improvised
                    scaffold, would receive it from the pike poles, determine how it would best fit at his corner, roll
                    it over and, with his ax, cut a notch for a saddle and trim the log below into shape for the seat.
                    Together they would roll the log into place as part of the wooden wall, straighten each corner with
                    an improvised plumb bob, and receive another log pushed up by the men on the ground. The corner
                    man's reputation and future employment in this capacity depended on his work's
                    resulting in a perfect corner, as tested by the practiced eye of his fellows and by the plummet and
                    measurements, all of which tests would be applied immediately after the walls were up.
            Smaller logs, each shorter than the one below, were put across each end where the roof was to begin,
                    as supports for the roof and as end walls for the loft. They carried the building up from the eaves
                    to the gable where a ridgepole was fastened. Having achieved a triumph as architects without
                    measurements or drawings of either plan or detail, and builders without tools, the corner men were
                    expected to climax the entertainment by standing on their heads on the ridgepole.
            
            A call to dinner followed the ridgepole performance. This was long before total abstinence had been
                    thought of in 
                        England
                     or backwoods America. It was half a century before any serious attempt was made in
                    America to tax the manufacture and sale of spirits except for the shortlived undertaking to collect
                    an excise tax in the Atlantic states, which provoked the Whisky Rebellion. Whisky and brandy could
                    be and were made at little stills in every neighborhood and were sold for a few cents a gallon or
                    the equivalent in trade. Even the most rigid moralists then insisted that drinking should stop just
                    short of drunkenness. Thomas Jefferson was urging the manufacture and sale of beer as a temperance
                    measure to combat the excessive use of alcohol. But the whisky jug must circulate at a raising or
                    many of the neighbors would go home.
            The practice of beginning the work before sunrise and getting the logs in place before noon was in
                    some degree a safety measure, for the more often the bottle had been passed, the less certain were
                    the drinkers' movements in lifting logs above their heads on pike poles; and accidents, even fatal
                    ones, which were blamed on strong drink were not unknown. As tea and coffee could not be obtained
                    and whisky was plentiful and cheap, a toddy-or homebrewed beer among the more sedate-was often drunk
                    at the dinner table; and few families were without a jug of whisky, whether used sparingly or
                    freely. The long contest to stop the use of whisky at raisings, in the harvest field, and other
                    places where working for each other was combined with feasting and merrymaking began in that
                    neighborhood soon afterward and raged with much acrimony until the Civil War. At this time, however,
                    neither liquor nor slavery had become the controversial questions they were later.
            The new settlers did not lack food, although they had arrived so recently on Tanners Creek that they
                    had not produced or harvested any crops. The lack of markets or stores within many miles, of roads
                    except bridle trails along the creek beds or footpaths worn by animals, of means of travel except by
                    foot or horseback, of money with which to buy, or of anything for sale if one had money did not
                    prevent their having an abundance.
            The unbroken forest, though sometimes an implacable enemy, was to them a generous friend. Herds of
                    deer and  occasionally a few elk, many bears, myriads of
                    squirrels and other small game, and even wild hogs which had strayed from older settlements and
                    wandered in the woods for many porcine generations insured abundance. Fish were even more numerous.
                    Sweet acorns which they called chinquapins, nuts and roots, wild plums and berries, and many kinds
                    of wild plants provided a substitute for bread, fruit, and vegetables. Cows, which the settlers had
                    brought with them or purchased from earlier inhabitants, pastured in the unfenced woods. Neighbors
                    who had come only a short time before had plenty of maple syrup, smaller quantities of maple sugar,
                    and a little cornmeal that they were willing to divide. So there were provisions of a kind in
                    plenty. When seasoned by the hunger that followed honest toil in the open air, the dinner produced
                    by the wives and daughters of all the assembled party was a feast indeed.
            Salt was sadly lacking. Most of the little they had was found at the bottom of a kettle after it had
                    been kept boiling many hours with water from some little salt spring or salt lick such as the wild
                    animals frequented. After boiling away a kettleful of the water, a few grains of salt were nearly
                    all their meager supply. Some salt could be purchased at prohibitive prices in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , having been carried by pack horses across the mountains or perhaps brought up the
                    river from Shawnee town, beyond the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                    , on a keelboat. These boats came upstream by the slow process of carrying a rope up the
                    river and tying it to a tree, turning by hand a windlass on the boat until it was drawn up to that
                    tree, when the rope would be unwound and carried forward to repeat the process more than a dozen
                    times in a mile.
            Such luxuries as salt fish and 
                        New Orleans
                     molasses were also lacking. Tea, coffee, and chocolate were unknown; but infusions of
                    roots, herbs, and grains, like drinks made of sassafras roots, the buds and leaves of spicewood, or
                    of roasted barley, supplied their place.
            Canning food as we know it had not been discovered; and even if it had been, it would have been
                    impossible to manufacture or bring to this wilderness tin cans, glass jars, or even stone jugs which
                    came into use a hundred years ago.
            The only respite a backwoods settler had from his diet of unsalted or poorly salted fresh game or
                    fish, maple syrup, * * *rnmeal, and substitutes for grains he had known in his  European or Atlantic Coast home was to float a flatboat down the creek
                    and down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers more than a thousand miles to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Many floated timber in the form of staves and hoop poles to make barrels for West 
                        India
                     sugar and hogsheads for tobacco, and took along the corn, hogs, pickled pork, and other
                    farm products of their own and of their neighbors. To avoid spending most of their gains for a
                    return passage, they often walked back home. My paternal grandfather, having found the market at 
                        New Orleans
                     unsatisfactory, once crossed to Havana and sold his cargo, returned to 
                        Florida
                    , and walked home from there through what was then a trackless forest for most of the
                    way. He carried the proceeds of his sale in gold coin sewed into a belt around his waist and, being
                    so completely off the beaten track, felt little fear that he would be suspected of having enough
                    money to pay for robbing him.
            As an alternative to floating with the river current to the Gulf of Mexico, perhaps one might walk to
                    the Atlantic Coast nearly as far away in another direction. Men from Tanners Creek did walk to the
                    coast and back; one of my great-grandfathers did. There was no relief from hitchhiking, for most of
                    one's fellow travelers were also afoot or were driving oxen that drew heavy loads at a pace
                    much slower than one could walk. A horse might be ridden, but a horse must be fed; and feed was
                    scarce and expensive when there was no money for any use but buying land from the government and far
                    too little for that use. Even if enough furs, then almost the only medium of exchange, were taken
                    along to pay the way of a traveler and two horses, the second horse with a packsaddle to carry the
                    furs was almost essential.
            But I have wandered far from the raising of this new house. Some raisings were followed by dancing.
                    Some people would bring horses to such a gathering and, betting on the favorite, would race them
                    through any opening in the woods that was sufficiently clear of underbrush. This, however, never
                    occurred on section seventeen in the valley of Tanners Creek. There the festivities which followed a
                    hearty dinner after the logs were in place began with singing a hymn and offering an extemporaneous
                    prayer.
            The older folks, however, soon had their devotions to themselves. Athletic sports, foot races,
                    jumping, tree climbing or shinning up, throwing the bar, and kindred sports attracted  the crowd, where all might look on even if few could excel. Real
                    athletes were among them, though their colleges were only the primeval forest with the homely
                    teachings of frontier parents. An eighty-year-old man who had been one of these youths boasted that,
                    when half grown, with a running start he could clear a bar held higher than his head.
            We may be inclined to suspect that dining alfresco, singing hymns, engaging in athletic sports, and
                    watching from the side lines were not all that entertained the young people at a raising or similar
                    gathering. Possibly they found time to discuss other subjects that still hold the attention of boys
                    and girls. At any rate, in a few years all the four daughters and five of the sons were married and
                    living in homes of their own, built in like manner of the logs cut from their new farms in the deep
                    woods. The other son had been killed by a falling tree. These nine who married presented their
                    parents with a total of ninety grandchildren, nor was this an unusual family in those early days.
            The logs being in place, dinner eaten, and a little time given to play, the guests started for home
                    with the approach of sundown. The nearest neighbor lived a mile away, and most of them much farther.
                    Everybody-men, women, and children-had come on foot except some ill and infirm person who might have
                    been indulged with a horse. To thread their way along an unmarked trail through an unbroken forest,
                    the man and his wife, with perhaps a baby in arms and other children not much larger, needed
                    daylight. Panthers and other wild animals were said to be more dangerous after dark, and in any case
                    it is much easier to get lost in the woods when it is dark than when the sun is shining. So the
                    lengthening shadows were accepted by the guests as a warning to start for home.
            After the raising was completed, many days of hard work were required of the family to complete the
                    home. Floors of puncheons, or thick slabs split like rough boards from huge logs, were to be
                    provided both below and in the loft. An outside chimney had to be built at each end with fireplaces
                    which would burn cordwood four feet long, the standard length. The logs of the outside walls must be
                    cut for an opening large enough to allow each fireplace to open at full width into the room. Doors
                    and windows must also  be cut and the severed ends of the logs
                    secured to hold the wooden walls in place.
            All this cutting was done with axes, for axmen of that day could cut a surface almost as smooth and
                    straight across a log as if it had been sawed-and the settlers had no saws. Before long the nearby
                    mill had saws and saw pits where two men, one standing on a platform and the other in a pit below,
                    would pull a saw up and down to cut boards from which shutters, doors, and benches were fashioned.
                    The blacksmiths brought wrought iron down the river from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , which, by hammering and working, was made so ductile that the smith could on his anvil
                    pound out a nail of any desired length and with a head the size of a thumb nail. Such a nail might
                    be driven through three inches of wood and clinched on the other side by bending it over and
                    hammering it down. This way of making nails was so slow and laborious that a mere handful
                    represented the value of an acre of wild land.
            This family had the rare good fortune to own an auger as well as axes, so they could bore holes and
                    drive pins to fasten braces in place. By this means they not only secured the sawed ends of the logs
                    at all of the openings, but they even contrived wooden hinges for their doors and shutters. These
                    shutters and doors were made of puncheons as wide as the opening to be closed, for in that primitive
                    forest there were plenty of trees four or five feet across the stump. These slabs swung on
                    improvised hinges and were fastened shut at night by a wooden bar laid across behind.
            As the settlers prospered, however, they obtained doors of sawed planks fastened together with nails.
                    One of these doors used in the outside kitchen and dining room built near the log structure is yet
                    in use as a kitchen door of the stone house which succeeded the log cabin. At first there was no
                    glass in the windows, and the choice was between shutters which, when closed, kept out all the
                    daylight and air as well as the cold, or an oiled cloth or paper which let in some cold and little
                    light, or the unchecked weather that might blow in with the shutters open. Window casings and sashes
                    were supplied later by local carpenters. Glass windows for the home and those yet in use in the
                    chapel were constructed with a few very small window panes which were floated down  the river from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , then already fifty years old and beginning to be a manufacturing center.
            The open woodfire furnished almost the only light they had after the short autumn twilight; for this
                    was many years before the source of kerosene was discovered in the Ohio Valley,
                    and the market for whale oil was a thousand miles away. Until they produced their own tallow, they
                    could not enjoy even the luxury of dim light from a tallow dip made by repeatedly dipping a wick
                    into melted grease.
            Putting on the roof was not a light task. Piles of clapboards or shakes split and rived from oak
                    logs, three or four feet long, six or eight inches wide, and approximately onehalf inch in
                    thickness, were prepared as well as long poles split down the middle in order to have one side flat.
                    These shakes were laid on like shingles. As each row was in place, they were fastened down with the
                    flattened weight poles laid lengthwise of the building and tied down at each end with green bark to
                    hold on the roof.
            Another task to be done was chinking the spaces between the logs, for there were always spaces left
                    between even the smoothest logs. Since no lath or plaster was available to close these cracks, it
                    had to be done by driving in wedges of wood or stone and then applying paster or mud in trying,
                    never with complete success, to make the chinking airtight. When the work must be done hastily, as
                    in the case of this family getting ready for a winter of which the early frosts were already
                    beginning to chill the air, the chinking must be of wood with clay mud until spring.
            But closing the cracks between the logs did not complete the work. After getting the walls up, the
                    roof on, the doors and windows hung, and the cracks chinked, the tasks of the family in completing
                    its new home had only just begun. Four rooms, substantially eighteen by twenty feet, were to be
                    furnished in addition to the outside kitchen. The one room of a trapper's cabin in which
                    they camped while preparing to build their own house was only poorly furnished by the small stock of
                    household goods which they had dragged five hundred miles across the country, floated another five
                    hundred down the river, and had brought into the wilderness beyond where beaten footpaths extended.
            Dining room furniture was the most pressing additional need. The dining room was capable of many
                    uses. When  neither the outside kitchen nor the great outdoors
                    was used for that purpose, it was the living room as well as kitchen. Three times a day the
                    appetites of ten growing children must be satisfied. The children and many visitors sometimes tested
                    the capacity of even a room of this size; for hospitality was not only a cardinal virtue, but an
                    absolute necessity in a new country without places of public entertainment, where settlers were
                    constantly arriving either to purchase the wild lands and open farms for themselves or passing
                    through to locations farther west. So the dining table had to be a large one with other tables in
                    reserve. For a table they split from a large log a slab about four feet wide and three or four
                    inches thick and dressed the surface to a semblance of smoothness. Short, stout pegs served as legs.
                    Extension tables might come into the homes of grandchildren or great-grandchildren, but the only
                    method available for increasing their table space, which was planned for the parents and ten
                    children with possible maids and workmen or visitors, was to multiply the number of tables or to set
                    the one table a second time. Benches of a kind were made by setting up sections of split logs on
                    similar pegs, and these were used also for the family and friends to sit about the fire in the
                    kitchendining-living room, subject to interruption when cooking was to be done there.
            Waiting until the older persons were served and the tables were reset was one of the hardships of
                    childhood. Many tales were told of the hired man or perhaps the preacher or other guest whose
                    fondness for some scarce article of food, such as early peas, new potatoes, or young squirrel, would
                    induce him to take helping after helping until none was left for the little ones. What they thought
                    of him as they watched through a crevice in the log wall and what they said where their elders could
                    not hear was far from complimentary. Even then, selfish and inconsiderate persons with big appetites
                    sometimes visited in Indiana.
            Food was cooked in, upon, and before the great fire of logs heaped against a backlog which, being too
                    large for carrying, was dragged and rolled into place. It always burned brightly in cold weather and
                    never wholly died out. Fire was saved from day to day by carefully covering the live embers with
                    ashes at night. If allowed to go out, it could be rekindled only with sparks from a flint and steel
                    struck into a box of  tinder and carefully nursed to a blaze.
                    The alternative was to use burning coals borrowed from a neighbor and carried perhaps a mile through
                    the woods, tended carefully to prevent its going out on the way. If sticks were ever rubbed together
                    until they ignited, I never heard it mentioned.
            Under the logs were beds of glowing red coals, almost hot enough to burst into flames, and quantities
                    of ashes. Eggs and potatoes were roasted in the ashes under the coals. Other vegetables and meat or
                    fish were wrapped in damp leaves or cornhusks and buried with burning coals heaped over them. They
                    emerged cooked to a turn after the fashion of a clambake or barbecue. The heavy iron pot with a
                    thick lip, familiarly called a Dutch oven, was an important utensil for cooking in every backwoods
                    home. When it was set upon a bed of burning coals and the lid covered with more coals, no oven could
                    be more efficient.
            The outside kitchen, built soon after the new house, had its own fireplace and room for all the
                    family to dine unless crowded out by guests or workmen. It had an immense oven built of native stone
                    and clay for use in general baking. A fire would burn on the floor of this oven until it was
                    thoroughly heated, when the wood, coals, and ashes were raked out and replaced with a
                    week's supply of bread and pies for the family and its visitors. During religious
                    festivals, such as the quarterly church conferences or camp meetings in the nearby woods, the crowds
                    which came taxed the oven's capacity for days at a time. The test whether or not this oven
                    was hot enough to remove the fire and put in the baking was made by the hands and faces of the
                    cooks. Thermometers did not reach the remote frontier until later.
            This method of cooking with an oven of stone or brick which gradually cooled while its contents were
                    baking had advantages which kept it in use by some bakers long after cookstoves with ovens were
                    introduced, even down to the time that ovens came to be electrically controlled. Taking out the
                    ashes and burning embers and disposing of them was always inconvenient. Gradual disappearance of the
                    supply of firewood, the manufacture for commercial sale of such articles as lard, hominy, and soap,
                    which once were made by every household in its own backyard, and the growing supply of cookstoves
                    with ovens led to the disuse of the stone or brick oven. Such an oven, built against the side of the
                    house, has  been reproduced by Eli Lilly where it formerly stood
                    at his place south of 
                        Noblesville
                     where William Conner once had an Indian agency. The oven built into the end of the
                    stone house which succeeded the log house we have been describing, though long unused and badly
                    wrecked, may still be seen.
            Of the other rooms built at that time, the one on the ground floor was to be occupied by the parents
                    and shared by two or three of the very little folks who slept in a trundle bed. One loft was
                    assigned to the older girls and the maids who helped with the spinning, weaving, and other indoor
                    work by which the family was provided with everything we now buy at clothing stores, dry goods
                    stores, and milliners. All work of that kind was done by hand, as the first sewing machine had not
                    yet been invented. The other loft was a bedroom for the sons and for the men hired not only to help
                    clear the land and plant and harvest crops entirely without machinery and almost without anything
                    that a victory garden now requires as implements, but also to manufacture on the farm nearly
                    everything that we now purchase from our tailors, shoe merchants, harness shops, and hardware
                    stores.
            Labor was in such demand that, as the new settlers arrived from the states farther east and from
                    Europe, these lofts, each as large as four ordinary bedrooms of today, were usually full and
                    sometimes overflowing, even when crowds of visitors were not being entertained. When the quarterly
                    conferences and other festivals brought visitors on horseback or on foot from as far away as fifty
                    or sixty miles, the whole family, including the hired men and maids, was expected to vacate their
                    beds. The women and girls slept on pallets spread on the floors of all the rooms except that a
                    bedstead might be set up for the use of some ill or infirm visitor. The men and boys, including the
                    male portion of fifty or more guests who might not improbably be apportioned to the "class
                    leader," which office the father of this family held until his death, slept in the barns or
                    out under the trees. Food and lodging were so plentiful and inexpensive that they were freely
                    shared.
            The few chairs that had been brought with them were taken to the mother's room at the far
                    end of the house, where an open fire always burned in cold or cool weather before which her guests
                    usually were entertained except at mealtime. The mother, less than forty-five years old when  this house was built and who lived to be almost twice that age,
                    seems always to have been regarded as an aged woman; perhaps she so considered herself, and it may
                    be that her husband's being fifteen years older helped the delusion. Wearing the cap she
                    had donned when she was married, she always dressed in the same plain clothes, without ruffle or
                    ornament, which she had worn from the time she joined John Wesley's church as a young
                    maiden back in Yorkshire.
            Small groups met for prayer meetings and class meetings in her room. Larger meetings filled the house
                    if the weather was too bad to go outdoors. But when the weather was fine, even though cold, they
                    sang, prayed, and preached under the trees, sitting on logs, stumps, benches, or the ground or
                    standing in the background as fancy moved them.
            Substitutes for mattresses were made of homespun bags or ticks stuffed with wild grass, but it was
                    not long until straw was obtained for this purpose. Bedsteads of split logs were succeeded by
                    furniture floated in from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . In these a strong cord wound back and forth over pegs driven into the head, foot, and
                    each side rail was a substitute for the springs which later generations think so essential. Just
                    when corded bedsteads of walnut and cherry wood came into the house I cannot say. Many years later,
                    when springs began to be thought necessary, all the old corded bedsteads, less than a dozen in
                    number, were thrown out, with the edict that they become stove wood. Admiring the wild cherry wood
                    and thinking that he was saving something for himself, one of the great-grandsons chose some and put
                    them into the loft above the woodhouse. But what chance has a mere man in household
                    matters? Years afterward, when styles again changed, the old furniture in the loft was
                    discovered and, being refinished and supplied with springs, became the prized possessions of
                    great-great-granddaughters.
            Trundle beds have been mentioned. Many of this generation probably have neither slept in one nor seen
                    one. A trundle bed had corner posts which lifted it just high enough that it would not touch the
                    floor but left it low enough that, when not in use, it might be pushed under one of the beds having
                    high posts and canopies, for which purpose it was fitted with small wheels, like casters, that our
                    forebears called trundles. It was on the same principle as the folding bed later so popular. Two
                    beds, when not in use, occupied  only the space of one. Many
                    trundle beds were in use in the country districts of southern Indiana until after the Civil War,
                    called the War Between the States. But this is a digression. We were building and furnishing a house
                    in an unbroken wilderness in Indiana territory.
            Heating the rooms so well furnished with outside openings was another question in winter. While the
                    burning logs in the fireplace might temper the cold a little more with the shutters closed, the
                    rooms never were really warm on a cold day. Heavy underclothing was worn in the house as well as
                    outdoors, and a shoulder shawl was a prized possession. Jokers would assert that a man, having taken
                    off his shoes in a log house to warm his feet, had frozen his heels in front of a blazing fire.
                    However gross the exaggeration, there was a hint of truth in the jest.
            The house being roofed, enclosed, chinked, and hastily furnished with improvised benches, tables, and
                    bedsteads so as to be habitable, the process of providing materials and obtaining help was repeated
                    in part to procure a barn with stables for the domestic animals. Logs were again cut and piled, the
                    neighbors rallied, a building erected, and all the incidents of a community dinner of food gleaned
                    from the wilderness and general merrymaking were repeated with the added convenience of a new house
                    and its fireplace for shelter and warmth against the winter which was then upon them. The barn,
                    though not so large as the house, also had a loft, roof, doors, and openings for windows in the
                    loft. The earth served as a floor for the stables, but the loft must be floored with puncheons and a
                    ladder replaced the stairway. Afterward other barns were built of massive timber frames, squared and
                    hewn with axes and adz, enclosed with sawed weather-boarding fastened on with iron nails, and having
                    doors and shutters of sawed planks hung on metal hinges with hooks and staples to fasten them shut
                    or open. The old log barn remained, however, to give shelter to the horses, cows, and pigs and to
                    contain fodder, hay, and grain with which to feed the animals.
            On the night I was born, a bolt of lightning struck this old barn stocked with hay and straw and
                    burned it to the ground. The north end of another building partly enclosed with boards and used as a
                    corncrib was near enough that the boards caught fire, and that building was saved only by  climbing up and throwing water on the burning boards, aided by
                    a deluge of rain which fell at the opportune moment. As it was, the boards were charred half
                    through, and have remained in that condition to the present time. More than forty years later I
                    heard persons asking about the fire which they thought had recently threatened the building, and a
                    younger generation may be repeating the same question.
            I know I owe an apology for injecting myself, a mere product of yesterday, into this tale of long ago
                    only because one of the log buildings put up for a pioneer family after their first year in the
                    woods was reserved for a holocaust at the time of my arrival on Tanners Creek; but it may help
                    someone to realize better that this is not a tale of fabled antiquity but relates what happened
                    right here within our own state to people who were known and are remembered by many friends and
                    acquaintances.
            The stone chapel, built by this family and their neighbors ten years later at the spot on their farm
                    where the squatter's cabin stood which sheltered them until their own house was built, was
                    constructed in compliance with the views and practices of churches built in Europe in that age,
                    without any means of heating. Now it is provided with a furnace and is still in use as a church and
                    Sunday School room, as well as a cemetery chapel. And the stone house, which greatgrandfather
                    substituted after a score of years for the log structure so hasitly erected, has been handed down by
                    succeeding generations for more than one hundred years and still is the home of his
                    great-grandchildren not so old as others of their generation, who in turn have great-grandchildren
                    of their own.
         
         
         
            A Study of Faculty Appointments at Indiana University, 1824-1937
            BURTON D. MYERS
            The legislative act establishing Indiana State Seminary was approved January 20, 1820, but it was not
                    until May, 1824, that buildings were erected and instruction was begun. Although Indiana Seminary
                    became Indiana College in 1828, it was 1830 before the first class was graduated and degrees
                    conferred. In the early years of the University, not only was the number of graduates very small,
                    but the opportunity for those few to earn a living as scholars was at first almost wholly lacking.
                    The records show that the early graduates of Indiana University studied law, theology, or medicine.
                    Others became farmers, entered upon a business career, or taught school. Certain of these graduates
                    attained eminence in fields of their choice, and it is certain that among them were men of great
                    ability. Some of them had careers, a few distinguished, as faculty members in other universities.
            Indiana University was the fiftieth college or university to be established in the 
                        United States
                    . Although in the following sixty years, 1820-1880, 330 colleges or universities were
                    established, most were small and struggling institutions; and it was not until the close of that
                    period that in the Midwest the career of the scholar acquired a living basis and became sufficiently
                    attractive to compete with law, medicine, and the ministry for some of the ablest young men of the
                    period. For example, the noted mathematician and astronomer, David Kirkwood, had only one pupil,
                    Francis P. Leavenworth (Indiana University, 1880), who became an astronomer, occupying that chair in
                    the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , 1892-1928.
            There were sixty appointees to the faculty of Indiana University in the sixty-one years from 1824 to
                    January 1, 1885, only seven of whom were alumni of Indiana College or Indiana University.1 The following table shows the most important details concerning these seven
                    alumni appointees:
            
               
                        
                     1 Since the purpose of this study is to determine the facts relative to
                            the number of alumni and non-alumni appointed to the faculty of Indiana University from the
                            beginning of instruction in May, 1824, to the close of the Bryan administration, June, 1937,
                            certain definitions are necessary.
                        Section 7 of an act approved June 17, 1852, reads as follows: "The President,
                            Professors, and Instructors shall be styled 'The Faculty'
                    
            
            
            
               Table 1
               
                  Name
                  Degree
                  Served
                  Title
               
               
                  James F. Dodds
                  A. B., 1834, A.M.?
                  1837-1839
                  Prof. of Math.
               
               
                  Henry Tanner
                  A. B., 1842. L. L. B., 1846, A. M.?
                  1843-1844
                  Prof. of Math. and Civil Eng.
               
               
                  James Woodburn
                  A. B., 1842, A. M.?
                  1853-1854
                  Prof. of Math. and Civil Eng.
               
               
                  Ambrose B. Carlton
                  L. L. B., 1850
                  1856-1857
                  Prof. pro tem of Law
               
               
                  Amzi Alwater
                  A. B., 1866, A. M.?
                  1870-1893
                  Prof. Latin
               
               
                  Henri W. Ballentine
                  A. B., 1856, A. M.?
                  1873-1874
                  Prof. of Eng. Lit.
               
               
                  
                  
                  1877-1878
                  Asst. Prof. of Greek
               
               
                  Sarah P. Morrison
                  A. B., 1869, A. M.?
                  1873-1875
                  Asst. Prof. of Eng. Lit.
               
            
            Not one of these appointees had made special preparation as was demanded by President David Starr 
                        Jordan
                     at a 
                  
                            of the said [Indiana] university." Tutors, teaching fellows, assistants, faculty
                                of the preparatory school, etc., are therefore not included in this study. The years a
                                man may have served in any minor capacity are disregarded and his faculty connection is
                                considered as dating from the time of his assumption of duties as an instructor or
                                professor. The members of the clinical faculty of the School of Medicine, and of the
                                departments of Physical Education and Military Training are likewise not included in
                                this study. There are a few exceptions to this latter statement. The deans of the School
                                of Medicine are included. James Sheldon (football) had a teaching appointment in the
                                School of Law. A few military appointees a hundred years ago taught mathematics or
                                surveying and are included.
                            An alumnus of Indiana University is defined as a person having received a baccalaureate
                                or other degree from Indiana University. An appointee not holding a degree from the
                                University at the time he assumed his duties as an instructor or professor is regarded
                                as a nonalumnus. A number of such non-alumni appointees later received an earned or
                                honorary degree from Indiana University, thus becoming alumni. This did not change the
                                fact that their educational status at the time of appointment was that of non-alumni.
                            The major source of information on which this study is based is a "Who's Who" of
                                the faculty of Indiana University completed in 1936 and kept up to date thereafter. The
                                following form was submitted to and filled by the members of the current faculty.
                            "John Doe- 
                           Now ……Present location and title. Succeeded ultimately
                                        by date and place of death and burial.
                           Born ……Date and place of birth, with names of parents.
                           Education ……Studied where, when, degrees earned and
                                        honorary.
                           Married ……To whom, date, children.
                           Record at Indiana University Various titles and period of service under each
                                        title.
                           Record elsewhere …Places, titles, years.
                           Miscellaneous ……
                        
                            
                            Securing the essential parts of this biographical data for members of
                        
               
                     later period. It is true that six of the seven persons had
                    master's degrees. While these degrees were occasionally earned, it was a common procedure
                    to confer them as a sort of bonus upon holders of the baccalaureate degree who continued for a time
                    in the academic atmosphere, a sort of decoration for a valorous attempt to follow an academic career
                    under very difficult conditions.
            Of these seven appointments, six were temporary-for one or two years only. The one person who
                    remained a long time had the equivalent academic training of the others but in addition had a
                    likable personality. The first three appointments indicate a purpose to establish mathematics or
                    mathematics and civil engineering as part of the curriculum.
            January 1, 1885, is a date in the history of Indiana University ranking in importance second only to
                    January 20, 1820. It marks the end of an early period of foundation, frustration, and near
                    extinction, and the beginning of the present period of gradual progress in the development of the
                    University. A very critical situation in the history of the University was climaxed by the
                    resignation of President Lemuel Moss in November, 1884. The Moss administration, 1875-1884, had been
                    for Indiana University a period of regression. The enrollment for 1875-1876 included 132 arts
                    students, 36 law students, and 125 medical students, a total of 293. Early in the Moss
                    administration (1876), the affiliation 
                  
                            the faculty of earlier years presented no insuperable difficulty back to July 24, 1883,
                                from which date the minutes of the Board of Trustees are complete. The disastrous fire
                                of July 12, 1883, destroyed all university records except one book of minutes of the
                                Board of Trustees, from February 15, 1838, to July 15, 1859.
                            The file of Catalogues prior to the fire of 1883, collected from
                                various sources, is likewise very incomplete.
                            
                        The History of Indiana University, 1820-1890 (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1890), by Theophilus Adam Wylie, the seventh man appointed to the faculty
                                of Indiana University, was sometimes the only source of information regarding very early
                                appointees. Wylie became a member of the faculty in May, 1837. He retired in 1886 at the
                                age of seventy-six. His history was printed five years before his death. He had known
                                personally and intimately all but three members of the faculty of that early day.
                                Baynard R. Hall, John H. Harney, and Ebenezer N. Elliott had left prior to 1837. This
                                work is a most valuable contribution to the history of the University during those early
                                years. With his feet on the "Western slope," and writing from memory, with
                                catalogues and other records mostly destroyed by fire, it is remarkable that he omitted
                                only three members of the university faculty, included in the University's
                                "Who's Who."
                            While we have checked all the sources mentioned above, the biographical material for the
                                faculty "Who's Who" was found so carefully prepared, it was relied on
                            chiefly.
                        
               
                     which had been made in 1871 with the potentially powerful
                    Indiana Medical College faculty was ended. At the close of the school year 1876-1877, the School of
                    Law, started thirty-five years earlier under David McDonald (1842), was dropped. The catalogue for
                    the wear 1884-1885 lists a faculty of eleven professors and instructors and an enrollment of 137
                    students. The Arts School, which was all that was left of Indiana University, had gained five
                    students in ten years.
            Indiana University had not differed greatly from contemporary private or denominational schools
                    before January 1, 1885. Up to that time, the president of Indiana University had been a minister who
                    taught moral philosophy. Daily chapel attendance had been compulsory. The athletic teams of
                    neighboring Indiana colleges were keen competitors to whom Indiana University lost frequently in
                    baseball, football, and later in basketball.
            The election of any scientist to the presidency on December 19, 1884, would have constituted a break
                    with precedent occasioning much unfavorable comment. But in David Starr 
                        Jordan
                     the courageous trustees had elected, not merely a scientist, but an evolutionist as
                    well. The shock of this action was profound; and Indiana University, which had been called a
                    Presbyterian or a Methodist institution, according to the religious affiliations of its faculty, now
                    became "That Godless Institution," an appellation which clung to it into this century,
                    notwithstanding the deeply religious convictions of 
                        Jordan
                     and his successors.
            Indiana University at this time was still an educational frontier. Nearly all the things needed to
                    make it a university in fact were still to be done. Total university income, departmental budgets,
                    and library appropriations were small and inadequate, quarters were cramped and crowded, and the
                    faculty was small, underpaid, and overworked. When 
                        Jordan
                     conferred with William L. Bryan about his appointment as a member of the university
                    faculty, he opened with the inquiry, "How much more work can you do than the ordinary
                    professor?" This only half facetious inquiry had enough sincerity to impel Bryan, without
                    any objection from 
                        Jordan
                    , to load up with a quantity of work so great as nearly to cause a breakdown,
                    constituting a health threat for some years.
            
            Writing of the beginning of this period in the "Hoosier and City Life" section of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star of February 20, 1916, under the title, "When I Was in
                    Indiana," 
                        Jordan
                     said: 
                        The best things I did there, were these two; the introduction of the elective system of study
                            in the "major professor" form, and the selection of the best fitted alumni as
                            professors… .
                        Hitherto new professors had been mainly sought from the East, and as a rule only the second
                            rate of the young men would accept. After some not very successful attempts to do better I
                            promised chairs to certain alumni on condition that they should adequately prepare in Europe
                            or the East. Among these at the beginning were Swain, Bryan, Hoffman, Woodburn and Philputt.
                        Of these Joseph Swain and William Lowe Bryan have successfully filled the
                            President's chair. They brought what the University most needed in the teaching
                            staff, character, enthusiasm and loyalty. And to these and to other alumni professors who
                            followed them a large part of the educational progress of Indiana for these thirty years has
                            been due.
                    
            
            The introduction of the elective system referred to by 
                        Jordan
                     was a pioneer procedure of great significance. Built on a foundation of general
                    education, the elective system enabled a student to go far in some special field. The result was
                    that Indiana University graduates were soon found in important positions from coast to coast.
            For 
                        Jordan
                    's second innovation, "the selection of the best fitted alumni as
                    professors," it would have been impossible to have chosen a more auspicious moment; for
                    Joseph Swain, William L. Bryan, Horace A. Hoffman, James A. Woodburn, and Allen B. Philputt, recent
                    graduates, were teaching in the preparatory department, or the local high school, or, in the case of
                    Hoffman, had already gone east to do postgraduate work.
            This plan, introduced by 
                        Jordan
                    , was continued during the administrations of John M. Coulter, Swain, and Bryan,
                    influencing appointments to the faculty of Indiana University during the fifty-two years of these
                    four administrations. Because of the growth of the University, the number of appointments was many
                    times greater than in the years before 1885. In contrast with the sixty appointments to the faculty
                    in the first sixty-one years of the life of the University, there were 896 appointments made in the
                    fifty-two years from 1885 to 1937.
            
            These appointments were distributed as indicated in the following table: 
                  Table 2
                  
                     
                     Alumni
                     Non-Alumni
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     Total
                  
                  
                     Professors and Deans
                     23
                     21.5
                     84
                     78.5
                     107
                  
                  
                     Assoc. and Asst. Profs.
                     37
                     20.7
                     142
                     79.3
                     179
                  
                  
                     Instructors
                     302
                     52.4
                     274
                     47.6
                     576
                  
                  
                     Directors
                     20
                     58.8
                     14
                     41.2
                     34
                  
                  
                     Total
                     382
                     
                     514
                     
                     896
                  
                The fact that only 21.5 per cent of professors and deans and only 20.7 per cent of
                    associate and assistant professors were alumni, but 52.4 per cent of instructors were appointed from
                    alumni during the years 1885-1937 indicates co-existence of two quite different policies.
                    Professorial appointments of alumni were made conservatively and only after most thoughtful
                    consideration during all four administrations. Instructors, on the contrary, were appointed rather
                    freely, but their promotion was made difficult.
            The directors cited in the above chart were not members of the faculty, for the act approved June 7,
                    1852, provided that "The President, Professors and Instructors shall be styled 'The Faculty' of said
                    university." There were, however, a few exceptions in which, in addition to the title as
                    director or executive, the individual also had a professorial title carrying faculty membership.
            Of these thirty-four executives, twenty, that is, 58.8 per cent were alumni. Known efficiency of the
                    appointee was the sole consideration involved in making these appointments. Of these thirty-four
                    appointees, twenty-five were major directors or executives and are included in Table 5 with heads
                    and deans. Nine were minor directors and appear here only.
            The largest number of appointments was included in the group of instructors. According to President
                    Bryan, the procedure and responsibility for these appointments did not rest primarily with the
                    president.
            
                    The initial suggestion and recommendation of those appointed as instructors came in nearly all
                        cases, not from the president but from heads of departments to the president, and through him to
                        the trustees.
                    
                    Whatever motives influenced heads in their recommendations, a chief motive must have been the
                        securing of satisfactory assistance.
                
            Recommendations of department heads in many instances were made under the emergency of unexpectedly
                    large enrollments in certain departments, as will be shown later. Distribution of this group as to
                    numbers and percentage of alumni and non-alumni is shown in Table 2. The later history of these
                    appointees shown elsewhere in this report indicates that these appointments, whether alumni or
                    nonalumni, were generally justified or of short duration.
            President Bryan also stated, 
                        The initial suggestion and recommendation of those appointed as assistant or associate
                            professors came usually from heads of departments. These appointments were well considered
                            in each case by the head concerned and the president, and then by the trustees.
                     Of this group 142 persons, or 79.3 per cent, were non-alumni and 37, or 20.7 per cent, were
                    alumni.
            "The President had primary official responsibility in recommending to the trustees those who
                    entered the university as professors or deans." Of this group 23 persons, or 21.5 per cent,
                    were alumni and 84 persons, or 78.5 per cent, were non-alumni.
            The number of instructors was so large that this class of appointees deserve further study to
                    determine what became of them. The following table presents the important facts about their
                    relations with the University.
            
               Table 3
               
                  
                  Alumni
                  Non-Alumni
                  Total
               
               
                  Remained at I. U. 1 to 4 years
                  168
                  176
                  344
               
               
                  Remained at I. U. 5 to 25 years
                  36
                  34
                  70
               
               
                  Earned some professional rank
                  76
                  58
                  134
               
               
                  Became head or dean
                  22
                  6
                  28
               
               
                  Total
                  302
                  274
                  576
               
            
            Of the 28 instructors who became heads or deans, 78.5 per cent were alumni. Of the 134 instructors
                    who won some professorial rank, 76 or 56.7 per cent were alumni. The 36 alumni instructors and 34
                    non-alumni instructors, a total of 70, who remained at Indiana University  five to twenty-five years, have all but disappeared. No large group of
                    them were in the faculty at any one time. Though they rendered service commensurate with their rank
                    and remuneration, rules relating to reappointment now in force will in the future limit the number
                    in this group.
            A further check was made on what became of the 344 instructors who remained in Indiana University one
                    to four years only. Of these, 209 (60.8 per cent) had non-academic careers, and 135 (39.2 per cent)
                    had successful careers as professors or deans in other colleges or universities. Of the latter, 74
                    were alumni and 61 were non-alumni. These facts are summarized in Table 4.
            
               Table 4
               
                  
                  Alumni
                  Non-Alumni
               
               
                  Assistant professors
                  12
                  16
               
               
                  Associate professors
                  15
                  12
               
               
                  Professors
                  38
                  27
               
               
                  Deans
                  8
                  6
               
               
                  President
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Total
                  74 (54.8%)
                  61 (45.2%)
               
            
            The fact that 74 of the 168 alumni instructors, as contrasted with 61 of the 176 non-alumni
                    instructors who left Indiana University in four years or less, had successful academic careers in
                    other universities and colleges, would seem to indicate that the alumni group of appointees during
                    these fifty-two years was somewhat the stronger.
            The largest group of short-term instructors of Indiana University had non-academic careers. There
                    were 209 of these, of whom 94 were alumni and 115 non-alumni. The careers of some were cut short by
                    early death. The remainder are found as businessmen, chaplains, directors of various departments and
                    enterprises, editors, judges, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, superintendents of city schools, heads
                    of departments in city schools, research specialists in various fields, employees in various
                    departments of the 
                        United States
                     government and in a considerable range of other activities. The major difference in the
                    non-academic careers of these 209 persons was that there were many more lawyers and doctors in the
                    alumni than in the non-alumni group.
            These facts indicate that the instructorship at Indiana 
                    University was a proving ground and that advancement to higher faculty rank has been commendably
                    difficult. The University has had no length-of-service policy of promotions. Demonstration of
                    superior ability as a teacher, or as an investigator in some independent field, not a mere rehash of
                    the doctorate thesis, or performance of some service important to the University and the
                    commonwealth, have been fairly consistently required as a basis of promotion.
            It will add interest and understanding to study further the 126 appointees who became heads of
                    departments, deans, or major non-teaching executives during the years 1885-1937. Among these, 37 who
                    became department heads or deans and 12 who became executives were alumni, while 64 department heads
                    or deans and 13 executives were non-alumni.2 Department heads and deans numbered
                    101, and non-teaching executives numbered 25.3 See Table 5.
            Of these heads or deans, according to Table 5, 
                        Jordan
                     appointed 12 alumni and 11 non-alumni, a total of 23; Coulter appointed 5 alumni and 6
                    non-alumni, a total of 11; Swain appointed 6 alumni and 14 non-alumni, a total of 20; and Bryan
                    appointed 14 alumni and 33 non-alumni, a total of 47. 
                  
                     2 Attention should again be directed to the definition of an alumnus
                            of Indiana University as one holding a baccalaureate or any other degree from the University
                            (note 1, above). In cases in which the appointment and the conferring of the degree were
                            close in point of time, decision has been made as to status of appointee at the time of
                            beginning of service. Consider as an illustration the case of John C. Branner (see below, p.
                            16), who was appointed by 
                                Jordan
                            . He was appointed professor of geology and instructor in botany, June 6, 1885,
                            and a little later in the same session the trustees voted him the degree of Doctor of
                            Philosophy. But since his appointment was to begin August 1, 1885, he is classed as an
                            alumnus. The case of Joseph P. Naylor is only slightly different. Trustee records show the
                            degree Master of Science was voted, June 6, 1885. On June 8, 1885, he was elected associate
                            professor of physics. Since neither Branner nor Naylor had been students at Indiana
                            University, it could be argued that place of training would have been a better basis of
                            classification. This was considered, but difficulties were multiplied. Many appointees had
                            done undergraduate and part of their graduate work at another university and, in some
                            instances, just enough of the final part of graduate work at Indiana University to qualify
                            for the degree. Assessing major training in such cases involves knowledge, not merely of
                            length of residence, but of work done at Indiana University and elsewhere; knowledge of the
                            strength of the department of the other institution in which the appointee had studied, etc.
                            We believe that classification in accordance with this definition of an alumnus as stated
                            weights the alumni rather than the non-alumni group.
                  
                     3 A few of these executives had minor teaching responsibilities
                            representing 10 per cent or less of their duties. Their professorial title made them faculty
                            members with voting privileges.
               
                    
                    
                  Table 5
                  
                     
                     Alumni
                     Non-Alumni
                  
                  
                     
                     Deans and Heads
                     Non-Teaching Executives
                     Deans and Heads
                     Non-Teaching Executives
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     No.
                     
                     No.
                     
                     No.
                     
                     No.
                  
                  
                     Jordan
                     Aley
                     
                     Sheeks
                     
                     Barnes
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1885-1891
                     Banta
                     
                     
                     
                     Boone
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Branner
                     
                     
                     
                     Campbell,
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Bryan
                     
                     
                     
                     D. H.
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Eigenmann
                     
                     
                     
                     Dabney
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Jenks
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Foley
                     
                     
                     
                     Karsten
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Gilbert
                     
                     
                     
                     Kingsley
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Green
                     
                     
                     
                     McCabe
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Hoffman
                     
                     
                     
                     Matzke
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Lyons
                     
                     
                     
                     von Jageman-
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Naylor
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Woodburn
                     12
                     
                     1
                     Woodford
                     11
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Coulter
                     Davission
                     
                     
                     
                     Baillot
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1891-1893
                     Mottier
                     
                     
                     
                     Commons
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Rogers
                     
                     
                     
                     Fellows
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Rothrock
                     
                     
                     
                     Marsters
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Sembower
                     
                     
                     
                     Ross
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     5
                     
                     
                     Snow
                     6
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Swain
                     Fetter
                     
                     Cravens
                     
                     Bergstrom
                     
                     Babine
                     
                  
                  
                     1893-1902
                     Lindley
                     
                     
                     
                     Brooks
                     Bates
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Miller
                     
                     
                     
                     Cogshall
                     
                     Breed
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Moenkhaus
                     
                     
                     
                     Cumings
                     
                     Danforth
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Morris
                     
                     
                     
                     Hershey
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Rawles
                     
                     
                     
                     Johnston
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Kuersteiner
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Merrill, W. A.
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Reinhard
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Sampson
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Stempel
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Stephenson
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Tilden
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     6
                     
                     1
                     Weatherly
                     14
                     
                     4
                  
                  
                  
                     Bryan
                     Book
                     
                     Alexander
                     
                     Alberger
                     
                     Cookson
                     
                  
                  
                     1902-1937
                     Burke
                     
                     Biddle
                     
                     Bates, F.
                     
                     DeNise
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Campbell, C. D.
                     
                     Cavanaugh
                     
                     Black
                     
                     Holland, J. E. P.
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     Chamness
                     
                     Carter
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Edmondson
                     
                     Elliott
                     
                     Conklin
                     
                     Mason
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Forry
                     
                     Goodbody
                     
                     Emerson
                     
                     Martin
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Gatch
                     
                     Neff, R. E.
                     
                     Gavit
                     
                     Monroe
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Jenkins
                     
                     Smith, S. E.
                     
                     Hall
                     
                     Pettijohn
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Kohlmeier
                     
                     Smith, U. H.
                     
                     Harger
                     
                     Thompson
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Maxwell, A.
                     
                     White, C.
                     
                     Henshaw
                     
                     wells, A.
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     McNutt
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Hephurn
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Payne
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Hill
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Rice
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Hills
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Smith, H. L.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Hogate
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Wells, H.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Howe
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Jessup
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Leonard
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     MacLaren
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Manwaring
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Merrill, B. W.
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Moffat
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Moon
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Myers
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Nollen
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Piercy
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Rea
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Robinson
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Stout
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Sutherland
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Turner
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Vos
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     Wellman
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     14
                     
                     10
                     Young
                     33
                     
                     9
                  
                  
                     
                     Totals
                     37
                     
                     12
                     
                     64
                     
                     13
                  
                It will be noted that within this group of major leaders, alumni constituted 52 per cent of
                    Jordan's appointees (12 of 23), 45 per cent of Coulter's appointees (5 of 11), 30
                    per cent of Swain's appointees (6 of 20), and 30 per cent of Bryan's appointees
                    (14 of 47).
            It is of further interest to break down the alumni and non-alumni groups of each administration into
                    smaller groups in which each man is placed in the faculty rank of his initial faculty appointment.
                    The result is shown in the four following tables.
            
            
               Table 6, Jordan, 1885-1891
               
                  
                  Alumni
                  No.
                  Non-Alumni
                  No.
               
               
                  Heads and Deans
                  Banta
                  
                  Barnes
                  
               
               
                  
                  Branner
                  
                  Boone
                  
               
               
                  
                  Gilbert
                  
                  Campbell, D. H.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Hoffman
                  
                  Dabney
                  
               
               
                  
                  Woodburn
                  
                  Jenks
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Karsten
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Kingsley
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  McCabe
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Matzke
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  von Jageman
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  5
                  Woodford
                  11
               
               
                  Asst. Professors
                  Naylor
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Instructors
                  Aley
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Bryan
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Eigenmann
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Foley
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Green
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Lyons
                  6
                  
                  
               
               
                  Directors or Executives
                  Sheeks
                  1
                  
               
            
            
               Table 7, Coulter, 1891-1893
               
                  
                  Alumni
                  No.
                  Non-Alumni
                  No.
               
               
                  Heads and Deans
                  Rogers
                  
                  Baillot
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Commons
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Fellows
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Ross
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  1
                  Snow
                  5
               
               
                  Assoc. Professors
                  
                  
                  Marsters
                  1
               
               
                  Instructors
                  Davisson
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Mottier
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Rothrock
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Sombower
                  4
                  
                  
               
            
            
               Table 8, Swain, 1893-1902
               
                  
                  Alumni
                  No.
                  Non-Alumni
                  No.
               
               
                  Heads and Deans
                  Fetter
                  
                  Johnston
                  
               
               
                  
                  Miller
                  
                  Kuersteiner
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Merrill, W. A.
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Reinhard
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  2
                  Sampson
                  5
               
               
                  Asst. Professors
                  
                  
                  Bergstrom
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Hershey
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Tilden
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Weatherly
                  4
               
               
                  Instructors
                  Lindley
                  
                  Brooks
                  
               
               
                  
                  Moenkhaus
                  
                  Cogshall
                  
               
               
                  
                  Morris
                  
                  Cumings
                  
               
               
                  
                  Rawles
                  
                  Stempel
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  4
                  Stephenson
                  5
               
               
                  Directors or Executives
                  Cravens
                  
                  Babine
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Bates,H. S.
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Breed
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  1
                  Danforth
                  4
               
            
            
            
               Table 9, Bryan, 1902-1937
               
                  
                  Alumni
                  No.
                  Non-Alumni
                  No.
               
               
                  Heads and Deans
                  Book
                  
                  Alberger
                  
               
               
                  
                  Jenkins
                  
                  Black
                  
               
               
                  
                  Maxwell, A.
                  
                  Carter
                  
               
               
                  
                  Smith, H. L.
                  
                  Conklin
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Emerson
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Gavit
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Henshaw
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Hepburn
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Hills
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Hogate
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Howe
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Jessup
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Leonard
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Merrill, B. W.
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Nollen
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Piercy
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Robinson
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Stout
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Sutherland
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Vos
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  4
                  Young
                  21
               
               
                  Assoc. Professors
                  Gatch
                  
                  Rates, F.
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Hall
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Hill
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Manwaring
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Moon
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Myers
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Rea
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Turner
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  1
                  Wellman
                  9
               
               
                  Asst. Professors
                  Payne
                  
                  Harger
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  1
                  MacLaren
                  2
               
               
                  Instructors
                  Burke
                  
                  Moffat
                  
               
               
                  
                  Campbell, C. D.
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Edmondson
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Forry
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Kohlmeier
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  McNutt
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Rice
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Wells, H.
                  8
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Directors or Executives
                  Alexander
                  
                  Cookson
                  
               
               
                  
                  Biddle
                  
                  DeNise
                  
               
               
                  
                  Cavanaugh
                  
                  Holland
                  
               
               
                  
                  Chamness
                  
                  Martin
                  
               
               
                  
                  Elliott
                  
                  Mason
                  
               
               
                  
                  Goodbody
                  
                  Monroe
                  
               
               
                  
                  Neff, R. E.
                  
                  Pettijohn
                  
               
               
                  
                  Smith, S. E.
                  
                  Thompson
                  
               
               
                  
                  Smith, U. H.
                  
                  Wells, A.
                  
               
               
                  
                  White
                  10
                  
                  9
               
            
            
            Table 10 is a summary of Tables 6, 7, 8, and 9, showing the number of alumni and non-alumni of this
                    group of 101 heads and deans appointed to each faculty rank during the fifty-two years of these four
                    administrations. The percentage 
                  Table 10
                  
                     
                     Alumni
                     Non-Alumni
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     Total
                  
                  
                     Professors or Deans
                     12
                     22
                     42
                     78
                     54
                  
                  
                     Assoc. Professors
                     1
                     9
                     10
                     91
                     11
                  
                  
                     Asst. Professors
                     2
                     25
                     6
                     75
                     8
                  
                  
                     Total
                     37
                     
                     64
                     
                     101
                  
                of alumni in the different professorial ranks varies without regard to any pattern as
                    follows: professors, 22 per cent alumni; associate professors, 9 per cent; and assistant professors,
                    25 per cent.
            If, during the fifty-two years of these four administrations, alumni were recipients of special
                    consideration, it should appear in connection with these 101 most important appointments to the
                    faculty of Indiana University. Alumni constituted 78.6 per cent of the 28 instructors promoted
                    through the years to headship; 78 per cent of the 54 persons appointed directly to headships were
                    non-alumni. The findings cancel. The fact that 78.6 per cent of those instructors who later won
                    headships were alumni shows that these four administrations may have had a better evaluation of the
                    ability of alumni than of non-alumni instructors.
            The large majority of these 37 alumni heads and deans enjoyed the broadening influence of some years'
                    contact with other universities. This is presented in Table 11.
            It will be noted that seven European universities, six Eastern universities, and three Midwestern
                    universities provided the graduate training of this group. Only six had the doctor's degree
                    from Indiana University. Two of these, Frank Forry and Thurman B. Rice, received the degree of
                    Doctor of Medicine and in time became heads of departments in the sophomore year of the School of
                    Medicine. John C. Branner, Clarence E. Edmondson, Carl H. Eigenmann, and Charles H. Gilbert received
                    the Ph.D. degree at Indiana University.
            Branner had never been a student at Indiana University. His Ph.D. was his only degree and that was
                    honorary, though 
                    
                  Table 11
                  
                     
                     A.B.
                     Master
                     Doctors
                  
                  
                     
                     Butler
                     DePauw
                     Iniana U.
                     Harvard
                     Columbia
                     Cornell
                     Harvard
                     Indiana U.
                     Stanford
                     Bonn
                     Chicago
                     Clark
                     Columbia
                     Cornell
                     Halle
                     Harvard
                     Heideberg
                     Indiana U.
                     Johns Hopkins
                     Leipzig
                     Miami Med.
                     Penn. U.
                     Strassburg
                     Tubingen
                     U.of Paris
                  
                  
                     Aley
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Bantu
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Book
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Branner
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Bryan
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Burke
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Campbell, C.D.
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Davisson
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                  
                  
                     Edmondson
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Eligemann
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Fetter
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Foloy
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Forry
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Gatch
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Gilbert
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Green
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Hoffman
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Jenkins
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Kohlmeier
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Lindley
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Lyons
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Maxwell, A.
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     McNutt
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Miller
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Moenkhaus
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Morris
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                  
                  
                     Mottier
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Naylor
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Payne
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Rawles
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Rice
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Rogers
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Rothrock
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Sembower
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Smith, H.L.
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Wells, H.
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Woodburn
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     X
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
               
                     well merited. He had been state geologist to 
                        Brazil
                     and was regarded as the most eminent American on the geology of South America. He
                    followed 
                        Jordan
                     to 
                        Stanford
                     where, in 
                        Jordan
                    's absence, he was acting president.
            Edmondson and Eigenmann had all their formal academic training at Indiana University where Edmondson
                    became Dean of Men, and Eigenmann, organizer and Dean of the Graduate School. Eigenmann's
                    work is so well known that no comment is needed.
            Edmondson's work is less well understood. Bryan was a member of the faculty when the faculty
                    as a whole considered cases of student discipline, heard evidence, interrogated witnesses and
                    accused, and passed judgment. As enrollments grew and the faculty increased in number, this function
                    was gradually taken over by a committee on student affairs. In the early part of the Bryan
                    administration, Judge Enoch G. Hogate was chairman of this committee. He was succeeded by Dean
                    William A. Rawles. Faculty meetings were held at frequent intervals, sometimes every two weeks, when
                    most of the time, as shown by faculty minutes, was taken up by reports of the student affairs
                    committee. These reports were discussed by the faculty and generally approved.
            This time-wasting procedure was followed by appointment of Edmondson and Charles J. Sembower as deans
                    of men. These deans acted so quietly it might have been thought they did nothing. But if information
                    about any student was wanted, the card files in their office yielded surprising details. They
                    handled many difficult situations with great tact, and under their efficient management, student
                    discipline reached a new high at Indiana University.
            Gilbert followed 
                        Jordan
                     to 
                        Stanford
                     where he was professor of zoology from 1891 to 1928, the time of his death. Joseph P.
                    Naylor had never been a student at Indiana University. His only degree was the honorary
                    master's degree from Indiana University. He left the institution in 1891 for DePauw where
                    for 32 years he was professor of physics. The non-alumni appointees of this group of deans and
                    department heads enjoyed great diversity of training. This is shown graphically and in detail in
                    Table 12.
            Two universities, Cornell and 
                        Harvard
                    , each furnished the undergraduate training of four of these appointees. Eight earned a
                    doctor's degree at Johns Hopkins, four each at 
                        Chicago
                    
                    
                    
                     University and Cornell University, and three each at 
                        Princeton
                     and Yale.
            In addition to these facts with reference to appointments during the 113 years of the
                    institution's existence, with special emphasis on the 52 years of the administrations of 
                        Jordan
                    , Coulter, Swain, and Bryan, there are other facts necessary to an evaluation of the
                    effect of the innovation introduced by 
                        Jordan
                    . There was a rapid increase in enrollment, calling for additions to the teaching staff,
                    although the appropriations did not keep pace with the need for additional teachers and so became
                    increasingly inadequate. There was a state of almost continuous emergency, failure to consider which
                    would be as unfair as it would be today to fail to consider the war emergency in which an instructor
                    in philosophy and a housewife of some years become teachers of mathematics.
            The gain in enrollment is shown by the following tables: 
                  Table 13
                  
                     By close of
                     Enrollment
                  
                  
                     1884-1885
                     137
                  
                  
                     1887-1888
                     273-doubled
                  
                  
                     1892-1893
                     572-doubled again
                  
                  
                     1900-1901
                     1137-doubled still again
                  
                  
                     1908-1909
                     2331-doubled a fourth time
                  
                  
                     1922-1923
                     4837-doubled a fifth time
                  
                  
                     1936-1937
                     7005
                  
               
                    
                  Table 14
                  
                     Period
                     Gain in Enrollment
                     Ave. Gain Per Year
                  
                  
                     1885-1888
                     136
                     45
                  
                  
                     1888-1893
                     299
                     60
                  
                  
                     1893-1901
                     565
                     71
                  
                  
                     1901-1909
                     1194
                     149
                  
                  
                     1909-1923
                     2506
                     179
                  
                  
                     1923-1937
                     2174
                     155
                  
                It will be noted that there was an acceleration in the average annual increase in
                    enrollment up to 1923. Due to the great increase in the number of matriculants, an unexpectedly
                    large enrollment in a number of departments at the opening of nearly every year constituted an
                    emergency calling for  relief. This emergency was met in 52 per
                    cent of the cases by appointment of some recent graduate, available on short notice, as instructor.
                    We call attention to the special study of 576 instructors, showing that appointments of 60 per cent
                    of the instructors were temporary and that advancement to professorial rank was difficult.
            During those fifty-two years of most rapid increase in enrollment, the increase in budget was not
                    commensurate with the increase in teaching load. The report of the Committee on Finance, made under
                    date of January 3, 1885, estimated the income for 1884-1885 at $56,676. With a budget of
                    this size, Bryan was offered an instructorship in the fall of 1884 for the year at $250
                    which he declined. In June, 1885, he was made associate professor at a salary of $1,000. 
                        Jordan
                    's salary for 1884-1885 had been $1,800.
            The inadequacy of state support of the University is further indicated by the fact that when the fire
                    of 1883 destroyed the main university building, the legislature voted a paltry $15,000
                    for its rebuilding. It was not until 1895 that one-sixth of a mill tax was imposed by the
                    legislature for support of Indiana University, Purdue University, and Indiana State Normal. By the
                    close of the school year 1900-1901, the enrollment had doubled three times since January 1, 1885,
                    while the university income had a little more than doubled. In the year 1884-1885 the budget of
                    $56,676, though small, was in excess of $500 per student. The budget of
                    1901-1902, $129,000, was slightly in excess of $100 per student. When
                    confronted by the necessity of appointing an emergency instructor, a better alumnus than non-alumnus
                    could usually be secured for the small salary available.
            The rapid growth in enrollment referred to above was a cause of great alarm to the many good people
                    whose chief higher educational interest centered in the denominational schools. They believed this
                    growth of the state university was a threat to the very existence of the non-state schools. During
                    the legislative session of 1897, the alarm and hostility developed into unified opposition, with a
                    senate hearing, directed toward the defeat of the Geeting Bill. Even so recently as 1909, Governor
                    Thomas R. Marshall (1909-1913) voiced a disappearing point of view, saying, "Who would pay
                    money at a denominational college for an education he could get free at a state
                    university?"
            
            The statesmanlike answer to this inquiry was made by President Francis J. McConnell of DePauw, later
                    Bishop McConnell, who said, "So far as DePauw University is concerned, DePauw will be glad
                    to see more liberal appropriations voted the State Educational Institutions, for the more liberal
                    support of the state university makes it easier to get the more generous support needed by
                    DePauw." Ably supported by President Robert L. Kelly of Earlham, this was voted as the
                    sentiment of the non-state schools.
            With the waning of this opposition, the mill tax was increased and though Indiana has never been as
                    generous as some neighboring states in support of higher education, state appropriations did
                    improve. The dissipation of non-state school misapprehension and opposition was one of the finest
                    fruits of the tactful and ever friendly attitude of the Bryan administration. We believe that, in
                    any effort to evaluate the policy introduced by 
                        Jordan
                    , the peculiar difficulties of the period as sketched briefly above should be
                    considered.
            On May 31, 1940, the trustees of Indiana University adopted a resolution relating to "Employment of
                    Personnel." The resolution is too long to be included here. It applied to all members of
                    the instructional and administrative staff. It included the Extension Division and applied to all
                    persons employed on the mechanical or labor staff. Briefly stated, the resolution provided that any
                    persons to be employed by Indiana University must first present satisfactory evidence that he is not
                    closely related to any person already employed there.
            The last three paragraphs of the resolution read as follows: 
                        5. No person shall be employed without the submission of satisfactory evidence showing that
                            the person proposed to be employed is not related by blood or marriage to persons already
                            employed by Indiana University or to members of the State Board of Education or to Trustees
                            of Indiana University. The degrees of relationship covered by the above restriction are as
                            follows:
                        By blood: child-parent, brother-sister, uncle-aunt, nephew-niece; By marriage: husband-wife,
                            brother-in-law and sister-in-law, father-in-law and mother-in-law, son-in-law and
                            daughter-in-law, child and step-parent.
                        6. In case of the marriage of persons employed, one of the affected shall not be re-employed
                            at the beginning of the next fiscal year.  This
                            regulation is a condition to each contract of employment made subsequent to the effective
                            date of these regulations (May 31, 1940).
                        7. These regulations shall not affect the status of any one employed or who has been
                            appointed on or before the effective date of these regulations (May 31, 1940).
                    
            
            It is obvious from the above that the trustees were concerned about close relationships. Cousins and
                    more distant relatives did not come under these rules.
            A study was made to ascertain what previous appointments had been made that would have been prevented
                    if these rules had been in force from the beginning.4 Of the 1111 faculty
                    members (1824-1937), there were 54 related persons5 whose appointments were not
                    concurrent. There were 122 persons, approximately one in nine, whose appointments were concurrent
                    and who were related as follows:
                        By blood: 
                        
                           Parent-child
                           32
                        
                        
                           Brother-sister
                           21
                        
                        
                           Uncle or aunt, nephew or niece
                            14 / 57 
                        
                        
                           Cousins
                           3
                        
                        
                           Second cousins
                            7 / 10 
                        
                        
                           Total
                           67
                        
                     
                            
                        
                           4 In our study of related members of the faculty of Indiana
                                    University, 1824-1937, we have proceeded as follows: We started with a complete
                                        list of faculty appointees, 1824-1937. Miss Ivy L. Chamness of the Department of
                                        Publications; Mrs. John Cravens, who did the painstaking work of compiling
                                        bibliographical data relating to each faculty member; and Miss Ruth McNutt, who
                                        was for many years secretary to President Bryan and kept the faculty list up to
                                        date following 1936, when Mrs. Cravens' work was completed, checked every person
                                        in the list who was known to be or thought to be in any way related to any other
                                        faculty member, administrative officer, or trustee. The list was then checked by
                                        President Bryan and by Dean H. L. Smith, both of whom have lived in 
                                            Bloomington
                                         all their lives, and by Professor William J. Moenkhaus, appointed
                                        under the Swain administration in 1894. Instances of supposed relationship were
                                        carefully checked by contacting the ii-.dlvidu'.ils or their relatives. Likeness
                                        of name does not mean family icO.aticmhip. For instance, Professor R. R. Ramsey
                                        and Earl E. Ramscv, at one time principal of 
                                            Bloomington
                                         High School, are not related in any known degree. The Barbours,
                                        Elizabeth and Humphrey, were not related despite the identical spelling of the
                                        family name.
                                    Carelessness in checking facts of relationship can lead to great error. As an
                                        illustration, Lillian Gay Berry (1902-1943) was the sister of Burton Bowers
                                        Berry, (1893-1894). Her appointment followed that of her brother after an
                                        interval of eight years. Merely stating the fact of relationship, though
                                        truthful, may still lead to a very false impression. The period of employment of
                                        all related persons was, therefore, painstakingly ascertained in order to
                                        determine if appointments were concurrent.
                                    
                              5 These fifty-four related persons whose appointments were
                                        not concurrent were, of course, not counted. We also eliminated eight cases in
                                        which there was likeness of name of unrelated persons. Dr. Moenkhaus was not
                                        related to Ernest W. Rettger at the time their appointments were concurrent.
                                
                     
                            
                        
                        By marriage: 
                        
                           Husband-wife
                           38
                        
                        
                           Brother- or sister-in-law
                           7
                        
                        
                           Father-, mother-, son-, or daughter-in-law
                           2
                        
                        
                           Child and stepparent
                            0 / 47 
                        
                        
                           Cousins
                           7
                        
                        
                           Second cousins
                            1 / 8 
                        
                        
                           Total
                           55
                        
                     
                        
                    There were 104 persons, one in ten, related in the degree covered by the resolution of the
                    Board of Trustees. If the resolution of the Board had been limited to parent-child, brother-sister,
                    husband-wife, brother- or sister-in-law, it would have applied to 94 per cent of cases they
                    included. If the resolution had included all degrees of relationship up to and including second
                    cousins by marriage, it would have applied to only eighteen additional persons in 113 years.
            One should not leave this subject without stating that in the most frequent faculty relationship,
                    husband and wife, the wife in most instances proved eminently fitted for and adapted to the work for
                    which she was appointed. For the greater part, the child-parent and brother-sister appointments were
                    of brief duration. In a few instances in which the appointments extended over a considerable period
                    of years, contemporary faculty members knew a very worthwhile service was being demanded and
                    rendered.
            In this study of related faculty members nepotism has not been discussed. Instances could be cited in
                    most universities in which brothers, or parent and child, or husband and wife have been concurrent
                    faculty members of different departments of the same university. This is not nepotism. The
                    appointive body is a Board of Trustees, unrelated to appointees. In the 113 years covered by this
                    study, there have been remarkably few cases of nepotism.
            Considering first the Board of Trustees, a careful check shows no close relationship between
                    appointees and a member of the Board of Trustees with two exceptions, as follows:
            Sarah Parke Morrison, the daughter of John I. Morrison, trustee, had established a precedent by
                    becoming the first woman graduate of Indiana University (1869). Four years later she became a member
                    of the teaching staff for two years, the first year with the title of tutor, the second year with
                    the title of adjunct professor of English literature. During 
                    these two years she was also adviser to women. Thus she was the first woman member of the faculty,
                    which established a second precedent. Her period of service was short and there was probably a
                    feministic element in the appointment. Prior to becoming a student at Indiana University, Sarah
                    Morrison had graduated at Mount Holyoke, had been a pupil-teacher at Vassar, had graduated from a
                    business college, had been assistant principal" at Glendale and had taught in 
                        Oxford
                     Western Female Seminary.
            In 1899 the administration was in search of a man as keeper of grounds. A person with the knowledge,
                    experience, and judgment desirable had not been found. R. A. Ogg, trustee, said, "I do not
                    like to suggest my brother, but he knows all about doing what we are needing here." So
                    William R. Ogg was appointed and continued to render valuable service for many years after his
                    brother's trusteeship terminated. It was a fortunate appointment.
            Within the administration we note the fact that President Andrew Wylie and his cousin Theophilus were
                    for fourteen years concurrent members of Indiana University's faculty. Andrew Wylie became
                    president of Indiana University in 1829 and served until his death in 1851. Theophilus Wylie became
                    pro tern professor of natural science and chemistry in 1837. The following year his appointment was
                    made permanent. He resigned in 1852 to accept a position at Miami University. On April 3, 1855, by
                    unanimous action of the trustees, he was re-elected professor of chemistry and natural philosophy at
                    Indiana University. He accepted and served until June 7, 1886, when he resigned and became professor
                    emeritus. He was a man of many-sided scholarship. Bringing him back to the University after an
                    absence of two and onehalf years, for thirty-one years' additional service, is ample evidence of the
                    wisdom of his original appointment.
            Within the faculty there are a few cases of seeming nepotism. What are the facts? John
                    Foley had been appointed and was serving as electrician for the campus. His work occasionally
                    overlapped that of the man in charge of building maintenance, and there were occasional clashes
                    between them. Both were good men. The president solved the problem of clashing personalities by
                    assigning John Foley as technician in the rapidly expanding Department of Physics headed by
                    Professor Arthur Foley, John's brother. For some  years
                    Myrtle Stempel taught in the Department of Comparative Philology, which was heade'd by her husband
                    whose hearing was failing. He might have had to be replaced at any time.
            Previous to 1885, there were six presidents of whom William Daily was an alumnus of Indiana
                    University. Presidents, as such, have not been included in any count of the faculty. Alfred Ryors is
                    included, having been professor of mathematics, 1844-1858, prior to becoming president. Bryan is
                    included since his appointment as instructor was effective as of January 1, 1885. He served
                    seventeen years as a faculty member, to June, 1902.
            When 
                        Jordan
                     was elected president of Indiana University, there were forty-seven applicants for the
                    position. In 1884 it was not considered a breach of good form to apply for this position.
            Coulter, of course, was never a student or member of the faculty at Indiana University. The minutes
                    of the Board of Trustees show that John M. Coulter was elected professor of botany and geology on
                    April 14, 1885. He evidently refused the appointment, for on June 6, 1885, Branner was elected
                    professor of geology and instructor in botany. The Ph.D., which was granted Coulter in June, 1884,
                    the minutes of the Board of Trustees indicate to have been "pro merito." During his brief
                    stay of two years at Indiana University, Coulter had to make a comparatively large number of
                    appointments because of the fact that 
                        Jordan
                     had taken with him to 
                        Stanford
                     six men from the faculty he had built up at Indiana University, five of them department
                    heads.
            Coulter was never a member of the so-called "Specialist's Club," nor was Swain.
                    James A. Woodburn gave the membership of this club as "
                        Jordan
                    , its organizer, representing biology; Charles H. Gilbert, zoology; Horace A. Hoffman,
                    Greek; William Lowe Bryan, philosophy; Rufus Green, mathematics; and James A. Woodburn,
                    history." Bryan and Hoffman, members still living, have been consulted without adding to
                    this list. The purpose of the club was not the meeting of specialists but the stimulation of young
                    men to become specialists. It fitted in with 
                        Jordan
                    's idea of selecting superior alumni and sending them away to qualify for their
                    speciality. An instance of this was the appointment of Swain  as
                    associate professor of mathematics, and according to the minutes of the Board of Trustees, a grant
                    of a year's leave of absence "to qualify for mathematics work." As the mission of
                    this very informal club was fulfilled, 
                        Jordan
                    's catholic interest was transferred to other matters and the club faded out. 
                        Jordan
                     was no doubt influential in the appointments of Coulter and Swain, neither of whom, as
                    Woodburn tells us, were members of the "Specialist's Club."
            The election of Bryan as revealed by the records occurred in the following manner: President Swain
                    had been offered the presidency of Swathmore, his church college. There were reasons why he wished
                    to accept and other reasons why he desired to stay at Indiana University. He was much perplexed as
                    to what he should do. In his report to the Board of Trustees, June 17, 1902, he informed the Board
                    of his invitation. He stated he had stipulated certain conditions of acceptance which Swathmore had
                    met, and he presented his written resignation. The Board had convened at 10:30. They received,
                    considered, and regretfully accepted the resignation of President Swain. They then took up the
                    consideration of a successor. Before nominations were made, it was suggested a trial ballot be
                    taken. It was proposed that each member should write on his ballot the name of the man who was his
                    first choice for the presidency. These ballots were collected, and it was discovered all bore the
                    name of William Lowe Bryan. Dr. Bryan was called before the Board, notified of his election, made a
                    speech of acceptance conditioned on his health, then not good, being such that he could carry the
                    load, and at 1:30 the Board adjourned. In one sitting, three hours, the Board of Trustees had
                    received and accepted the resignation of one president and elected a successor, a good
                    morning's work.
            
               
                        Jordan
                     deliberately started at Indiana University what generally has been called inbreeding, a
                    term adopted from the biologists. But it must be noted that 
                        Jordan
                    , in his autobiographical sketch in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, was not talking of promiscuous inbreeding which has given rise to the
                    deduction that all inbreeding led inevitably to degeneration, but of selective inbreeding by which
                    the best qualities of a strain are emphasized and perpetuated.
            
               
                        Jordan
                    , Coulter, Swain, and Bryan were searching for  men
                    of superior ability and had the keenness to recognize and the courage to develop them, even if found
                    on their own campus. Adaptability was a factor of great importance in the selection of new faculty
                    members, but adaptability was not a quality confined to alumni. Some of the most adaptable men were
                    found among the non-alumni appointees, while the greatest opposition to the initiation of a program
                    for making Indiana University a university in fact was encountered in some ultraconservative alumni
                    faculty members. It was not expected, of course, that the appointee would be complacent on
                    encountering inadequate facilities. It was hoped that he would grasp the vision and share the
                    conviction bordering on certainty, that in time conditions at Indiana would be made adequate and
                    that it was going to be worthwhile to help bring about that better day.
            Seventy-four alumni of Indiana University have been called to some normal school, college, or
                    university as president. Of these seventy-four, sixty earned the baccalaureate degree at Indiana
                    University. The other fourteen earned other degrees at Indiana University. Boards of trustees of
                    these widely distributed institutions have recognized these individuals as men of superior ability
                    and attainment by selecting them for the high office of president. Since Indiana men have received
                    this recognition from seventy-four groups of trustees throughout the 
                        United States
                    , would not the trustees of Indiana University have been unpardonably shortsighted if
                    some of the best of the graduates of Indiana University had not been retained as long as possible as
                    faculty members?
            After an absence of many years, 
                        Jordan
                     pointed with pride to the establishment of this procedure as one of the best things he
                    did while in Indiana and expressed the conviction that to it was due "a large part of the
                    educational progress of Indiana University."
            The fact that, except for the daughter of a trustee appointed to the faculty of Indiana University,
                    1873-1875, no other one of the hundreds of persons who have served on the faculty of Indiana
                    University from 1820 to 1937 has been closely related to any one of the 160 persons who have been
                    members of the Board of Trustees constitutes an imperishable record of the unselfish devotion of the
                    Board to the interests committed to its care. Data such as is available for the faculty is not
                    complete for appointees other than faculty  members. So far as
                    available, the record of the Board in connection with this large group of non-faculty employees is
                    equally enviable.
            The story here related conforms to type for the development of an old culture, such as art,
                    literature, or education, in a new territory. The culture was first imported, but bringing it to
                    America did not make it American. It was still European culture only transplanted, and it remained
                    so for half a century or more until a new generation began to write stories and paint pictures. Some
                    of these new Americans went across the water to learn what Europe had to teach of art and
                    literature, and came back to write and draw. People liked what they wrote and painted and finally
                    even Europe said it was good, and so we knew it was good. We bought the stories and books and paid
                    the artist for his painting, and the author and artist paid the grocer, and a culture was
                    established in new territory on a living basis.
            Essentially this process was repeated when education was carried across the mountains to a new
                    frontier in the great Northwest Territory, a territory larger than 
                        Germany
                     or 
                        France
                    , a territory in which education was subsidized in township and state by federal land
                    grants. During the first sixty years only a few graduates of the state school succeeded in
                    establishing themselves in the field of university education. But with the election of 
                        Jordan
                     came the dawn of that new period when the transplanting process was completed and
                    education had taken root in the new soil.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            Committees of the Indiana Historical Society for 1943, as published in the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, Vol. XXXIX, 52-54, have been continued for 1944 except for vacancies
                    caused by death and changes in the elected officers of affiliated societies. Deceased members and
                    the committees on which they served are Richard Lieber of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , covered timber bridges; James W. Noel of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , gifts and bequests; and C. O. Warnock of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , prehistory and Indian history.
            Two committees active for a number of years have collected so many pictures and data covering their
                    subjects of early water-power mills and covered timber bridges that preparations for publication can
                    be undertaken. Water-power mills played a central part in the development of Indiana from the
                    earliest time to the middle of the nineteenth century. Their decline and disappearance from most
                    parts of the state form an illuminating chapter in the history of industry in the last hundred
                    years. Covered timber bridges afforded the first satisfactory means of carrying travel and traffic
                    over the streams, both large and small, of the state. They were the most conspicuous man-made
                    features of the Indiana landscape in the last half of the nineteenth century. The steel and concrete
                    bridges which have replaced them, though stronger and better fitted to support the heavy traffic of
                    the present time, do not erase from memory either the service or the sentimental appeal of the old
                    covered timber bridges.
            The material collected in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library could be the basis of valuable and
                    handsome volumes upon early mills and covered timber bridges in the state. A fitting book on either
                    subject is beyond the present resources of the Society. A quiet effort is being made, however, to
                    secure necessary funds.
            The next number of the Prehistory Research Series will be devoted to a preliminary
                    report upon the Angel mounds and village sites upon which Glenn A. Black, field director of
                    archaeology for the Historical Society, has been working since the spring of 1939. For nearly three
                    years, Mr. Black  was assisted by a varying number of Work
                    Projects Administration workers. The last year and a half has been spent chiefly in the study of the
                    artifacts uncovered during the operation of the WPA archaeological project and discoveries about the
                    prehistoric inhabitants of the site. Mr. Black's report will be somewhat in the nature of a
                    summary of the process and the results of the project. No announcement can be made at this time of
                    even the probable date of issue.
            A thorough and extensive study of Mortuary Customs of the Shawnee and Other Eastern
                        Tribes by Erminie W. Voegelin, of the Indiana University faculty and editor of the Journal of American Folklore, was published in April as Volume II, No. 4 of the
                        Prehistory Research Series. The Series is mailed without
                    charge to Society members requesting it and to archaeologists, anthropologists, and libraries
                    interested in receiving it. Requests should be addressed to the secretary of the Indiana Historical
                    Society, Room 408, State Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. Owing to wartime scarcity of materials, the Society orders a scant margin of copies
                    of the Prehistory Research Series. Those receiving copies who do not want to
                    preserve them are requested to return them to the Society. Postage will be refunded. The book rate
                    on this issue varies from four cents for mailing within the same zone to eighteen cents for foreign
                    mail. To take advantage of this rate, the wrapper must be plainly marked, "BOOK."
            As stated in the December issue of the Indiana Magazine of History, Mrs. Voegelin
                    collected data for her study principally between the years 1935 and 1940, inclusive. Her
                    bibliography is dated January, 1941. Illustrative of the problems involved in printing North
                    American linguistic symbols and tables of large numbers of traits, as well as difficulties of
                    wartime work, is the fact that copy for the Mortuary Customs of the Shawnees and Other
                        Eastern Tribes was in the hands of the printer more than fifteen months before
                publication.
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE LETTERS OF GODLOVE S. ORTH, RADICAL REPUBLICAN
            Edited by J. HERMAN SCHAUINGER
            This third group of Orth letters covers a period of twenty-one years, 1860-1881, during which time
                    the government of the 
                        United States
                     met and conquered its greatest domestic crisis. The country was ruled for a time by an
                    extra-constitutional committee, which set up military governments to rule part of the nation for the
                    only time in our history. A small group of Radical leaders freed the slaves, revolutionized the
                    economic life of the old masters of that race, and, by fanning the fires of sectional hatred,
                    managed to control the affairs of the nation for some time. Drunk with power obtained by these
                    means, politicians blackened the pages of our history with an orgy of political corruption and
                    disgrace, climaxed by the unsuccessful move to oust an honest president.
            During these twenty years, Orth remained on the national political scene, most of the time in
                    Congress. In 1861, despite his skepticism, Governor Morton appointed him one of the five Indiana
                    representatives to the Peace Conference in 
                        Washington
                    . In July, 1862, he came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a captain of volunteers, but with the danger of invasion over, he was mustered out
                    in August.
            In the same year he was elected to the Thirty-eighth Congress and served continuously through the
                    Forty-first Congress. During this time he constantly urged a determined prosecution of the war. When
                    he became convinced that President Johnson would not compromise with Congress, he joined the camp of
                    the Radicals and constantly supported all Radical reconstruction measures, voting for the Thirteenth
                    and Fourteenth amendments.
            He took an active interest in the foreign policy of the government, especially in making certain
                    changes in the diplomatic and consular services. He favored the annexation of Santo Domingo but in
                    1868 opposed the recognition of Cuban belligerency. He did not serve in the Forty-second Congress
                    but reappeared in the Forty-third. In 1872 he indicated a desire for a foreign post; in 1875 he
                    declined the ministership to 
                        Brazil
                     but accepted the office of Minister to 
                  Austria-Hungary
               .  In May of the following year he resigned this position to accept the
                    gubernatorial nomination of his party in Indiana but withdrew from the race. In 1878 and 1880 he was
                    again in Congress.
            The following letters are more significant in their omissions than content and are less exciting and
                    valuable than those of the Whig period. They are almost entirely concerned with his personal
                    political affairs and problems of patronage, with little discussion of the great national problems.
                    There are but five written during the course of the war, and no mention is made of the exciting
                    events of the Radical contest against Johnson. No hint is given of the devastation caused by the
                    exposure of the scandals of the Grant administration, although the recipient of many of these
                    letters, Vice-President Colfax, was practically forced from public life because of the Credit
                    Mobilier scandal. There are other noticeable gaps. These letters, however, reveal something of what
                    went on behind the scene of Indiana politics. The very evident gaps in the dates of the letters to
                    Colfax make it probable that there were other letters to him; it may be hoped that these will some
                    day come to light. Orth was not a great man, but he was in the thick of political events for a long
                    period. He was a voluminous letter writer and there can be little doubt that many more of his
                    letters survive.
            The Orth letters to Elihu B. Washburne, 
                        Hamilton
                     Fish, and James A. Garfield are in the papers of those individuals at the Library of
                    Congress, 
                        Washington, D.C.
                     Those to Daniel D. Pratt are in the Pratt Papers, Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; those to Schuyler Colfax are in the Orth Collection at the Indiana State Library,
                    also.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Inda.
                           
                                    Novr 20 1860.
                                
                        Friend Schuyler,
                        I recd. a letter a few days since from our mutual friend Jno H. Harper in reference
                                    to the Cabinet of the incoming administration and have attended to
                                    his requests. Both our papers have spoken favorably of your name in connection with
                                    the P. O. Department.
                        Our State is unquestionably entitled to this consideration at the hands of Mr.
                                    Lincoln, and unless political Gambles, should at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , this winter, make a new cut, deal, & shuffle I have little
                                    doubt of your success.1 Why have you not written me yourself in
                                    reference to this matter. Faint heart &c you Know.
                        
                           
                              1 Colfax did not receive the appointment to the post
                                        office. It went first to Horatio King, who was followed in the same year by 
                                            Montgomery
                                         Blair. Caleb B. Smith of Indiana was, however, secretary of the
                                        interior from 1861 to 1863.
                        
                        
                        I may be a little selfish (but that is human nature) to desire your success, for it
                                    may be pleasant at least, if not profitable, to have a friend
                                    "near the throne."….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              La 
                                    Fayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Feb 28/1862
                                
                        Friend Pratt2
                        
                        I thank you Kindly for your letter to Gov Morton.3
                        
                        In this matter my friends feel more interest, and are more sanguine, than myself, and
                                    let the issue be what it may I am content in the assurance (now dawning so
                                    brilliantly), that we have a Government, and that we can maintain
                                    ourselves triumphantly against foes at home and, if need be, enemies
                                    abroad….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    May 13/63
                                
                        Dear Schuyler:-
                        I have just received a letter from Genl Totten,4 in answer to one
                                    of mine, stating that W. F. Reynolds jr. was appointed Cadet at
                                    West Point from this District. I am much surprised at this. It was done
                                    clandestinely by Mr. White,
                           5 and is in
                                    derogation of my right to nominate.
                        Will you assist me in seeing that this matter is changed at once.
                        I have today written to Genl Totten, claiming the right to
                                    nominate, but have as yet not sent any name… .
                        P.S. If necessary [?] see the Prest. himself, as I have some feeling about
                                    this matter.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    May 14, 1863
                                
                        Dear Schuyler:-
                        I wrote you yesterday rather hurriedly, in reference to the appointment of Cadet.
                        I think I used the word "clandestinely" in speaking of Mr. White's
                                    recommendation, and if so, I feel I did him a injustice, which I would not do
                                    Knowingly to any one.
                        It may be his right to make the nomination, but the matter has been Kept so quiet
                                    about [?] that I suspect there may be some doubt as to
                                    his right, but that his nomination would be respected in the absence of any from me.
                                    All I want is the exercise of my own undoubted privilege and if under the
                                    "Regulations" of the Academy, the nomination 
                              
                                 2 Daniel D. Pratt (1813-1877) practiced law in 
                                                Logansport
                                            . He represented 
                                                Cass County
                                             at the state House of Representatives in 1851 and 1853, and
                                            served in the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate from 1869 to 1875. Pratt also was a delegate to the
                                            Republican National Convention of 1860 and commissioner of internal revenue,
                                            1875-1876.
                              
                                 3 Oliver P. Morton (1823-1877) bolted the Democratic
                                            party to join the Free Soil party and then joined the Republican party
                                            because of its opposition to slavery. In 1856 he was nominated for governor
                                            by the People's party which was then merged with the Republican,
                                            but was defeated. He presided over the state Republican convention in 1857.
                                            Elected lieutenant-governor in 1860, he became governor upon the election of
                                            Henry S. Lane to the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate. Morton was one of the strongest of the war governors
                                            and was known throughout the Union as the soldier's friend. He was
                                            elected to the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate in 1867 and re-elected in 1872.
                              
                                 4 Perhaps this is General Joseph G. Totten
                                            (1788-1864), famous chief engineer of the army.
                              
                                 5 Albert S. White was a member of the Thirty-seventh
                                            Congress, but not of the Thirty-eighth. The final session of this Congress
                                            was held in March, 1863.
                           
                                     falls to me I desire to exercise it. The
                                    vacancy will only occur at the approaching Commencement. Please ascertain and inform
                                    me about the matter… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    July 25/64
                                
                        Dear Colfax,
                        I have just returned from White Co. where I have been seeking a few days of quiet,
                                    since the "convention" of the 20th. Great efforts were
                                    made by a few men, much money spent (some say $15,000) to secure my
                                    defeat, but when the delegates from the outside Cos. arrived, and commenced casting
                                    their votes solid for me, the "[?]" man was the first to seek the floor
                                    and move my nomination by acclamation, and Capt. Wilson6 gave the motion a hearty second. The roll of the Counties
                                    however was called, and the people by an unanimous and
                                    enthusiastic vote renominated me. Those who opposed me saw the coming of the storm
                                    and like prudent sagacious men they preferred not to breast it any longer.
                        Suffice it to say that the people had looked upon my re-nomination as a matter of
                                    course-and being busy in their fields & shops gave themselves no concern,
                                    until I returned and got a few of my friends to sound the alarm. 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     stood finely by me (God bless her, she has never failed to respond to
                                    any of my demands on her) and as a matter of course the other Cos. followed her
                                    lead.
                        But enough of this, for fear I appear selfish-
                        So Turpie7 is to take a tilt at you. I met the last three days
                                    quite a number of your constituents, who while they feel a little uneasy, yet say
                                    they will work with a will, and are not by any means despondent.
                        Several (Johnson,8 Chenowith, Ash &c) requested me to say
                                    to you, that you should not bear a joint campaign with Turpie, and gave as a reason
                                    the manner he treated you before, and the fear of undue excitement in the District.
                                    I merely comply with their request, Knowing that in this matter you are your own
                                    best judge.
                        Will you be at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     next Tuesday? I shall go over, and regard it important for
                                    all the Congl. candidates to meet with the Union League for general consultation.
                        I shall make a few speeches each week, but will not commence the canvass until about
                                    the middle of August.
                        Ward,9 Applegate & Hervey, are contesting the
                                    [?] nomination, on 
                              
                                 6 This may have been James Wilson (1825-1867), who
                                            practiced law in 
                                                Crawfordsville
                                             and served in the Mexican and Civil wars. In the latter, he was
                                            a captain of volunteers in 1862; but when discharged in 1865, he had been
                                            brevetted lieutenant colonel. He was a representative in Congress,
                                            1857-1861, and minister to Venezuela, 1866-1867.
                              
                                 7 For information on David Turpie's
                                            opposition to the Republicans, see Willard H. Smith, "The
                                            Colfax-Turpie Congressional Campaigns, 1862-1866," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , 1905-), XXXVIII (June, 1942), 123-42.
                              
                                 8 This might have been 
                                                Israel
                                             Johnson (1803-1866), a Whig from 
                                                Logansport
                                            .
                              
                                 9 This may have been Thomas B. Ward (1835-1892) of 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , who was mayor from 1861 to 1865 and was elected as a Democrat
                                            to Congress, 1883-1887.
                           
                                     Wednesday of this week. Of course as I shall
                                    not be consulted I will not indicate my preference….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Washt. City
                           
                                    July 19, 1866.
                                
                        Friend Pratt,
                        Your favor is reed, and I note what you say upon the ticklish subject of taxation.
                        There is a Bill before the proper Com. to carry out your suggestions, but I doubt
                                    whether it will be acted on at all during the few days of the Session yet remaining.
                        It is very doubtful however whether in view of our past legislation in reference to
                                    all our National Legislation, we should not be guilty of bad faith in attempting to
                                    tax any portion.
                        The contest this fall all over the country is assuming vast and important
                                    proportions, and the issues involved are not second in importance to any ever
                                    presented to the American People- Their [?] will be put to a severe test,
                                    but I have great confidence in the result, and if the action of Congress should be
                                    sustained, the country will be saved from the dangers which threaten it- Should the
                                    contrary be the result I much fear that untold trials and disasters are in store for
                                    us all-
                        Congress is not only hopeful?but firm as a rock, and will not yield an
                                    inch to the perfidy of the Prest… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sunday P.M. [1867]
                                
                        My dear Colfax:?
                        On my return from Delphi last night, whither I had been to address the Old Settlers
                                    meeting, I reed your note enclosing letter of Goddard.
                        I cannot say that I am surprised at T's course-for since you & I
                                    interceded in his behalf with McPherson10 I learned so much of
                                    his character, or rather want of character, as to be prepared for anything from that
                                    quarter. I am much more surprised that the Journal should lend itself to a
                                    promulgation of his meanness-but I suppose that all who do not worship continually
                                    at the shrine of a certain "M-ogul" of our state, are to have his dogs barking at
                                    their heels.
                        You know how they have served me heretofore in this District.
                        As to Thompson,11 I have for the last 18 Mos kept Him at arms
                                    length, and of course shall expect from him similar treatment to that which you are
                                    receiving when the proper time arrives.
                        But my dear Sir, you must expect these things for the boys always throw stones at the
                                    best apples on the Tree.
                        Since my return I have been in several neighborhoods in my District-and the people
                                    all desire to know about the next Presidency. Whether Grant
                           12 is with us-and can be relied on, &c, &c.
                                    Whether we must take him for the Presidency-or whether we have not
                                    the courage 
                              
                                 10 This is probably Edward McPherson who is referred
                                            to post, note 15.
                              
                                 11 This is probably Richard W. Thompson, a prominent
                                            Whig and Republican politician.
                              
                                 12 This letter was obviously written before Ulysses S.
                                            Grant's nomination by the Republican party for the presidency in
                                            1868 and possibly as early as the suspension of Edwin M. Stanton from the
                                            position of secretary of war. President Andrew Johnson suspended Stanton in
                                            August, 1867, and appointed Grant in his place. At this time
                           
                                     to speak right out and say we must have a true
                                    and tried Civilian, about whom there is no doubt or hesitancy, and invariably add,
                                    "Colfax ought to [be] our man." I have not heard Winters
                                    [?] name mentioned a single time-and am satisfied that he & his
                                    friends finding no response in his behalf will soon be found joining in the yelps
                                    for Grant.
                        Let us keep our powder dry-we are passing through eventful times-and the next 90 days
                                    may present a very different phaze from the present. A few articles in the Gazette
                                    recently did not help Grant very much, and have already made an impression here. But
                                    it behoves us to move with the utmost caution… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Octo 16, 1867
                                
                        Friend Washburne-13
                        
                        Absence from home (in 
                                        Ohio
                                     & elsewhere) has prevented me heretofore from tendering you my
                                    congratulations on your safe return from Europe and that too with improved health. I
                                    do hope the improvement may continue and that you may soon be in your usual vigor of
                                    body and mind.
                        The results of the recent Elections are of course unexpected, but if properly viewed,
                                    will be productive of good results, to our party and the County.
                        The nomination of Genl Grant, has now become a fixed factand with prudence on the
                                    part of Congress this winter, his triumphant election will become an equally fixed
                                    fact.
                        We may however so conduct ourselves as to bring about the mortifying position of
                                    Grant as President, with a Congress either against him, or else so weakened as to
                                    lose much of its power to do good.
                        If we continue the McCollough [McCulloch plan] of restricting the currency4-and our own policy of wild and extravagant (I will not say
                                    corrupt.) legislation, we shall forfeit the confidence of the people-and we shall
                                    deserve such forfeiture.
                        But I must close or else shall be drawn into writing a letter which was not my
                                    intention-but merely to tender you, as I again do, my
                                congratulations…
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    June 12/1868.
                                
                        Friend Pratt-
                        Permit me to tender you my sincere congratulations on your recent nominations for
                                    Congress.
                        Your election is of course a fixed fact and I trust I shall [have] the pleasure of
                                    serving with you in the 41st Congress.
                        I leave for Washt. in two or three days… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
               it was not clear whether General Grant would cast his lot with the Radical Republicans or with
                        the President. He soon broke with Johnson, however, and in the following year became the
                        successful Republican candidate for the presidency.
               
                  13 Elihu B. Washburne (1816-1887) was a Whig and later a Republican who
                        served sixteen years in the House of Representatives. He was a personal friend of Abraham
                        Lincoln and Grant. Appointed first by Grant as secretary of state, a few days later he was
                        appointed minister to 
                            France
                        , 1869-1877.
               
                  14 Hugh McCulloch (1808-1895) was President Johnson's secretary
                        of the treasury, 1865-1869. He served in the same capacity for President Chester A. Arthur,
                        1884-1885.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington, D.C.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 26, 1868.
                                
                        Friend Pratt-
                        I know you must have "McPhearson's15
                                    Political History of the Rebellion" for your approaching canvass,
                                    and I have therefore taken the responsibility to have it forwarded to you by
                                    Express. The price is $5.-C.O.D… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Inda.
                           
                                    Sept. 7, 1868
                                
                        Dear Washburne-
                        My district is very close and I have a hard contest on hand.
                        Our friends have decided on a rally here on Thursday the 1st of. Octo. and on its
                                    success depends very much the success in Octo.
                        Senator Sherman16 has promised to do the talking for the occasion, but if Genl. Grant could favor us with his personal presence we could arouse an enthusiasm that would shelf
                                    all opposition.
                        By this days mail I wrote to the Genl. requesting his attendance, and I hope it will
                                    meet his approval, and my object in writing to you is to have your good word added
                                    to the request-
                        I can see of no impropriety at all in his coming here on that day, and much good will
                                    result… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Inda
                           
                                    Octo. 22, 1868.
                                
                        Friend Pratt-
                        I need hardly say to you that I congratulate you most heartily on your election to
                                        Congress.17
                        
                        Ever since my own term of service commenced I have felt like having you as one of my
                                    colleagues, and when we meet I can give you a recipe how to stay
                                    in Congress as long as you desire to do so.
                        Inasmuch as we have carried the Legislature I feel like being a Candidate for U.S.
                                    Senator, and especially so if I find sufficient encouragement among our friends in
                                    Northern Indiana.
                        I write you in that spirit of candor which should characterize a friendship of nearly
                                    thirty years standing, and will be pleased to hear from you in the same spirit, and
                                    to receive such suggestions as you may feel at liberty to make.
                        I know that you can do much among the Members elect from your district, and with that
                                    support I shall feel much encouraged in my efforts… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    Oct. 27, 1868.
                                
                        Friend Pratt,
                        Your favor of yesterday is recd.
                        After you shall have entered fully upon your duties as Rep. you 
                              
                                 15 Orth refers here to Edward McPherson, The Political History of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 of America During the Great Rebellion (
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C, 1864). McPherson, a Republican, served as a
                                            representative in the Thirty-sixth and Thirty-seventh Congresses and as
                                            clerk of the House of Representatives, 1863-1875, 1881-1883, and 1889-1891.
                              
                                 16 John Sherman (1823-1900), a Whig and Republican of 
                                                Ohio
                                            , served as a representative in Congress, 1855-1861; as a 
                                                United States
                                             senator, 1861-1877 and 1881-1897; as secretary of the treasury
                                            for President Rutherford B. Hayes, 1877-1881; and as secretary of state for
                                            President William McKinley, 1897-1898.
                              
                                 17 Pratt was elected to Congress in 1868 but never
                                            took his seat as a representative because he was elected subsequently by the
                                            Indiana legislature to the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate, 1869-1875. This fact makes the following letters of
                                            Orth to Pratt somewhat amusing.
                           
                                     will become enamoured of the situation, its
                                    novelty, its exciting character, and the important responsibilities with which it is
                                    surrounded.
                        To be one of the law-givers of this Great Republic-to study its vast and varied
                                    interests-to become familiar with its domestic affairs and its foreign policy-is
                                    worthy of any man's ambition and furnishes labor, interesting labor, for
                                    the most active and elevated intellect. But more of this when we meet hereafter.
                        I proceed to answer several interrogations and here let me promise, that I shall at
                                    all times most cheerfully furnish you with any information in my power.
                        The 41st Congress will convene on the 4th of March next, and I Know of no reason why
                                    it should remain in session longer than a week or ten days. You will however most
                                    probably be detained two or three weeks in order to arrange the distribution of
                                    patronage in your District, in the event of Grant's election.
                        In reference to lists of constituents-I have two such lists. One, comprising the
                                    leading and influencial Republicans in each townshipthis list numbers about 100 to
                                    each County. The other embracing pretty much all the reading Republicans, and some Democrats, in the District. This list numbers about 10,000.
                        The first list I use for the distribution of Books, Pub. Docs, and occasionally a
                                    speech of some leading Member. The other list is used almost exclusively for the
                                    distribution of speeches and political pamphlets.
                        The former list it would be well for you to prepare in time for the opening of the
                                    next Congress, the other, list you will not need until the Winter Session.
                        Your franking privelege commences on the 4th. of Feby.
                        Seats are selected by lot on the opening of each Congress and as much oftener as the
                                    House may order, which I have known to be done on two or three occasions during a
                                    session.
                        This, I believe, embraces all your enquiries-and now as to the Senatorship.
                        I certainly thank you for the most flattering opinion you express as to my fitness
                                    for the place. I have entered the Lists, with the full concurrance of every leading
                                    Republican in my District and I have reason to believe that every Republican Paper,
                                    and all the Republican Senators & Reps, in the District will give me their
                                    hearty support.
                        This should be satisfactory, on that score at least, to other parts of the state.
                        In the event of my election to the Senate, there would not be any trouble about
                                    electing a Republican in my succession. And as I have fully determined upon making
                                    the race I shall feel under many obligations to have the support of at least a
                                    portion of the Delegation from your District.
                        Should I be successful I shall regret that fortune has placed us in different ends of
                                    the Capitol, but we shall nevertheless have abundant opportunity to recall &
                                    recount many of the scenes & incidents of Auld Lang Syne… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Nov. 9, 1868
                                
                        My dear Colfax,
                        I hardly know whether to withhold my congratulations until another most interesting
                                    event shall have been added to your history. We can however settle both when we meet
                                    at the Capitol.
                        I don't like to make suggestions especially when they are unasked -but many years ago
                                    you wrote advising that "a politician" should never hesitate or "look behind
                                    him."
                        I believe your chances to succeed Grant are at this time better than those of any
                                    living man.18
                        
                        To keep them in this condition will require the constant action of yourself &
                                    friends.
                        It strikes me that the best thing now to be done, would be to have our old &
                                    much esteemed friend Defrees placed at the head of the P. O. Dept.
                        He is well qualified for this position, but independent of all this there is
                                    something due to such a friendship as his has been for the last 30 yrs
                        I make these hurried suggestions on my own responsibility, and
                                    without the knowledge of anyone; nor shall I detain you by enlarging upon a matter
                                    which your own good judgment will grasp in all its leanings upon your
                                    future… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Inda.
                           
                                    Novr 16, 1868.
                                
                        Friend Pratt,
                        Your favor is just recd.
                        I hope when the contest thickens, you will see your way clear to throw aside your
                                    neutrality-and buckle on the arms of righteousness for Godlove's sake. But of this anon.
                        As to Route Agencies I have not the time to give you full details as to the modus
                                    operandi-nor is it necessary until you get to 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        About the 1st of March the Rep. Members from this State get together and divide this
                                    patronage among themselves, taking into consideration the number of Agents to be
                                    appointed-and the different routes running through any one District.
                        For instance the Valley Road runs. thro, the District, of Shanks,19 Williams,20 Pratt & Orth-being 4. members and
                                    only 2 agents. This must be equalized by taking into consideration other lines of
                                    road, &c.
                        We will find it a very troublesome matter to adjust with exactitude. In the meantime
                                    I say to all my applicants "you must wait until I see how many agencies fall to my
                                    lot."…
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  18 Grant wasn't even in the White House yet, not taking office until March
                        4, 1869. By the time of the next election, however, Colfax was eliminated; Henry Wilson of 
                            Massachusetts
                         became Grant's second vice-president.
               
                  19 John P. C. Shanks (1826-1901) was in the state House of Representatives
                        in 1855 and 1879, and served as representative in Congress, 1861-1863 and 1867-1875. He entered
                        the Civil War as a colonel and was brevetted major general of volunteers in 1865.
               
                  20 William Williams (1821-1896), Republican, practiced law in 
                            Warsaw
                        , Indiana. He was in Congress, 1867-1875, and served as charge
                            d'affaires to Paraguay and Uruguay, 1882-1885.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    Decr 29, 1868.
                                
                        Dear Pratt-
                        Your favor is recd. I am half inclined to send it to Mr. Lanman,21 and have him publish it as your Biography prior to your
                                    elevation to the National Councils-leaving the Addenda for future Editions.
                        But seriously-Lanman is entitled to much credit for his Dictionary. I shall not
                                    consider any political Library complete without it. He gives a very brief account
                                    (about a dozen lines) to each M.C. from the organization of the Govt, stating birth,
                                    education, residence, profession, and official Station-and then etc. etc. You must
                                    furnish him, remembering that with public honors come also private annoyances. Are
                                    you still in the field for Senator? If not, I wish you to enter full
                                    handed, either for yourself or me-I know you can do me good to the extent of at
                                    least half dozen votes, and if I have drawn my Senatorial horoscope correctly, that
                                    number will about help me out.
                        Hoping to have the pleasure of seeing you at Inds. next week… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Jany 8, 1869.
                                
                        Friend Washburne,
                        I thank you very cordially for your favor of the 5th inst. just recd.
                        Our Senatorial question is in a very unsettled Condition, and the final result
                                    depends altogether upon what Concentrations may be made among two or three
                                    candidates in opposition to Will Cumback22 who controls at
                                    present the largest vote… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington, D.C.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Jany 22nd. 1869.
                                
                        My dear Pratt,
                        The Telegraph has just informed me of your election to the Senate.
                        Permit me to tender you my unfeigned congratulations on this result, and to assure
                                    you that (next to myself, such is our selfish nature) there is no man in our State
                                    whom I would rather see occupy this exalted position… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Apl. 5, 1869.
                                
                        Hon. D. D. Pratt
                        Sir,
                        The President has nominated John L. Miller as Post Master at 
                              
                                            Lafayette
                                        , Indiana in place of W. C. Wilson the present incumbent. This
                                    nomination was made on my recommendation and I desire its confirmation by the
                                    Senate.
                        As you are aware, 
                                        LaFayette
                                     is my place of residence-and it is fair to presume that I know the
                                    sentiments of my constituents in this respect.
                        I advised the President to make this change, among other reasons, because said Wilson
                                    is an unreliable Republican. In the controversy between Congress and the late
                                    President, Mr Johnson, Mr. Wilson warmly espoused the cause of Johnson and was
                                    instrumental in removing Mr Potter, the assessor in my District for no other reason
                                    than because Potter was a warm supporter of the Policy of Congress-and had himself
                        
                           
                              21 Charles Lanman first published his Dictionary of the 
                                                United States
                                             Congress in 1859. Finally it was taken over by the
                                        government and published by Congress. Lanman was librarian of the House of
                                        Representatives in 1861.
                           
                              22 Will Cumback was elected lieutenant-governor in
                                        October, 1868, to serve for the four-year term, 1869-1873. He then was nominated
                                        to the 
                                            United States
                                         senatorship but failed to secure enough votes and withdrew, after
                                        which Pratt was then nominated and elected.
                        
                        
                        appointed as such assessor. At my suggestion the Senate refused to confirm said
                                    Wilson as such assessor-
                        During the campaign of 1866 Wilson was one of the leading Johnson men in my District,
                                    confederating with the Democrats in their attempt to defeat the Republican Party,
                                    and presided over the Convention which nominated my competitor for Congress A
                                    vacancy occurred in said Post Office, by death in August 1867, and said Wilson was
                                    appointed Post Master by said Johnson. He continued to act with the Democratic Party
                                    until confirmed by the Senate, since which time he has professed to act with the
                                    Republican party.
                        He is actively engaged in the practice of the law, and pays but little attention to
                                    the duties of the office.
                        I need hardly add a word in behalf of Mr Miller who is nominated as his successor,
                                    because you are well acquainted with him.
                        He is an old and respectable Citizen of my town, has always been a staunch working
                                    Republican-represented my County honorably for four years in our State Legislature,
                                    is a man of incorruptible integrity and well qualified to discharge the duties of
                                    the office.
                        Should there be any objection to his confirmation you are authorized to read this
                                    letter to the Senate… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Friend Pratt-
                        The enclosed letter of Mr Coburn shows an exact similarity between the political
                                    status of Garland Rose & Mr Wilson-
                        
                        If it was right to remove the one it cannot be wrong to remove the other… .
                        
                           Keep this letter.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Enclosure]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Washington D.C.
                           
                                    Apl 6th 1869
                                
                        Hon. D. D. Pratt from W. Coburn'
                        Dear Sir
                        I am asked to state what Garland Rose's political position was formerly.
                        He was a Johnson man in 1866, & voted against our ticket.
                        He voted our State & National tickets in 1868 and every where openly avowed
                                    his intention to do so… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Inda.
                           
                                    June 2, 1869.
                                
                        Friend Washburne,
                        This letter will be handed you by my friend John L. Reynolds Esq. of this City.
                        Mr. R. is one of our oldest and most respectable Citizens, and I take pleasure in
                                    commending him to your Kindness during his contemplated visit to 
                                        Paris
                                    … .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    Jne 26/69
                                
                        Friend Pratt,
                        Will you please give me your Autograph in the enclosed, and return
                                    to me.
                        Mr. Cole is all I have stated him to be.
                        Shall start for 
                                        California
                                     in ten days… .
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Pratt]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington, D.C.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    1869
                                
                        Mrs. Bainbridge has been appointed Post Mistress at Fort 
                                            Monroe
                                        .
                        
                        
                        She is the Mother-in-law of our mutual friend, Genl. J. J. Reynolds23 -and I trust you will aid in her confirmation… .
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Washburne]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Inda.
                           
                                    July 5, 1869.
                                
                        Dear Sir,
                        This will be handed you by my friend & constituent W. L. Lingle Esq.24 who is about starting on a visit to 
                                        Paris
                                     and other portions of Europe.
                        I commend him to your Kind attentions….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jny 11-1870.
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        I have known W Bradford for many years-and cheerfully testify to his character and
                                    devotion to the Repb. Party. In this latter respect I have witnessed his labors
                                    & efforts ever since my service in Congress.
                        He has recently met with severe domestic affliction in the loss of his wife-having on
                                    his hands a large family. He is not rich in this worlds goods- He has a bright
                                    little son whom he desires to have appd. Page in the Senate.
                        I am satisfied you will never regret your action in the matter if you procure such
                                    appt…
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Pratt and Oliver P. Morton]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              House of Representatives 
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 ,
                           
                                    March 23, 1870.
                                
                        Gent:-
                        The Prest. has sent to the Senate for confirmation the name of Capt. Henry G.
                                    Ellsmuth for 2nd Lieut, of Marines.
                        Capt. E is a son of the late Henry L. Ellsmuth, & he is a worthy young man. I
                                    trust you will see to his confirmation… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    May 10, 1871
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        Enclosed is the application of Mr Elijah Moore, one of most respectable Citizens and
                                    active Republicans.
                        Can I ask of you to hand it in person to the Secretary of War, and add your request
                                    to mine that the prayor of the applicant be granted.
                        I assure you it is a most meritorious case-and one which should receive favorable
                                    action… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    May 15, 1871
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        My friend F. M. Heaton25 Esq. now in the Land Office desires the appointment of
                                    Recorder of the Land Office.
                        He is worthy of the place, and I shall esteem it a favor if you can speak a good word
                                    for him with the ''powers that be."
                        I have examined the new Treaty casually, and do not find any 
                              
                                 23 Joseph J. Reynolds was the first colonel of the
                                            Tenth Regiment of the Indiana Volunteer Infantry. He received his commission
                                            of major general, November 29, 1862.
                              
                                 24 This may have been William S. Lingle, who purchased
                                            the 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana, Courier in 1854
                              
                                 25 Frank M. Heaton, of Indiana, was a clerk in the
                                            General Land Office at 
                                                Washington, D.C.
                                            , from 1869 to 1873.
                           
                                     serious objections.26 It is certainly very
                                    desirable to have our relations with Great Britain, "and the rest of
                                    mankind on the most amicable basis."…
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Inda
                           
                                    May 22, 1871.
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        Many thanks for your intercession for the release of young Moore from the Army.
                        By this kindness on your part you have brought joy unspeakable to the hearts of his
                                    aged Father & Mother, whose prayers will ascend to Heaven for blessings on
                                    your head… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    June 19, 1871.
                                
                        My dear Colfax,
                        A desire not to intrude myself, while you needed rest and quiet, has alone delayed
                                    the tender of my congratulations, that a Kind 
                                        Providence
                                     is restoring you gradually to your accostomed health &
                                    strength.
                        That you may soon be fully restored, and spared yet many years of honor and
                                    usefulness to your family, your friends and your Country, is the ardent
                                    wish… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                               
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Septr. 6, 1871
                                
                        Friend Pratt:
                        My friends, Messrs Perrin Clark & Co. of
                                    this place have made applications for a National Bank Charter.
                        Will you please send me a letter to the Controller recommending them.
                        They are gentlemen of unimpeachable integrity, of large means, and well qualified to
                                    carry on business of Banking, besides which they possess the full confidence of our
                                    Commercial Community… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Inda
                           
                                    July 8, 1872.
                                
                        Friend Pratt
                        Our friends in Delphi are getting up some feeling in reference to the Post Master at
                                    that point.
                        This matter requires careful handling, as it may result in trouble.
                        
                           Should a vacancy occur, I will cheerfully consult with you as to
                                    the proper person to be appointed- In event of vacancy we want a
                                    good man who is not complicated in present troubles… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    July 13, 1872
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        I see by the Paper that Nelson27 is on his way
                                    home from Mexico, not to return- I can hardly say whether (if the position were
                                    tendered) I would like to go or not.
                        Sometimes I feel as though a short sojourn abroad would be very desirable-on many
                                    accounts-and especially the advantage which would accrue to my son and daughter from
                                    travel and intercourse with the world.
                        Would you feel perfectly free in writing the President saying that if the position
                                    were tendered I would probably accept it-
                        You are the only person to whpm I have or shall say a word 
                              
                                 26 This probably was the Treaty of 
                                                Washington
                                             with Great Britain, May 8, 1871.
                              
                                 27 Thomas H. Nelson (c. 1823-1896), a Whig and
                                            personal friend of Lincoln, was one of the founders of the Republican party
                                            in the Middle West. He was Minister to 
                                                Chile
                                            , 1861-1866, and Minister to Mexico, 1869-1873.
                           
                                     on this subject. I will not formally apply for
                                    this or any other position -but I might accept if tendered… .
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Pratt]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 16, 1872
                                
                        Your favor of yesterday is recd. Accept my thanks for the same.
                        Now as to the Delphi P. O. I am satisfied there are no substantial
                                    reasons for the removal of Major Hannum28-that the clamor
                                    against him was raised and is kept up mainly by disappointed applicants and their
                                    friends. Should the Dept. however determine upon his removal and request you to
                                    suggest a successor it strikes me the best thing you can do is to consult with Mr.
                                    A. H. Bowen.
                        I have always found Mr. Bowen a safe, prudent, and sagacious counsellor in all such
                                    matters, but I hope there will be no change, at least not until after the election.
                        Mrs. O requests me to say that she would be very much pleased to have Mrs. Pratt pay
                                    her a visit at any time within the next two weeks, or about the first week in
                                    September… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    July 19, 1872.
                                
                        My dear Pratt,
                        Senator Wilson29 will speak at this place on Wednesday the 7th of
                                    August-at 2 P.M. and at 
                                        Logansport
                                     same day at 7 P.M.
                        I wish you to come down and escort Wilson to your town.
                        While here on-people will expect from you a short exhortation after Wilson's
                                    speech-and I will return the compliment by exhorting at 
                                        Logansport
                                     the same evening… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Dect. 28, 1872
                                
                        Dear Pratt:
                        At our last interview you asked me to drop you a note in reference to a copy of the
                                    "Globe" for the 42nd Congress.
                        While on this subject permit me to add the following,
                              Smithsonian Report.
                              Diplomatic Correspondence.
                              Haydens' Exploration of the Yellow Stone… .
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Monday Morning [February 3, 1873]
                                
                        Dear Pratt:
                        While at the P. O. Dept. this morning Mr. Marshall informed me that Major
                                    Hannum's removal as P.M at Delphi had been determined upon- At my
                                    suggestion the Dept. has agreed to accept his resignation, and by this mail I have
                                    written to Hannum to forward his resignation, at once, which he will doubtless do.
                        As to his successor, I suggested to Mr Marshall-that ought, in courtesy, to be
                                    referred to Judge Cason30-as the Rept. Member elect from the
                                    District-and he replied he would do so, if agreeable 
                              
                                 28 Jehu C. Hannum resigned his commission of captain
                                            of the Indiana Legion, 
                                                Carroll County
                                             Company, upon entering the service of the 
                                                United States
                                             in 1861. He received his majority March 1, 1864.
                              
                                 29 The presidential campaign of 1872, in which the
                                            Liberal Republicans had revolted and thrown their support against Grant, was
                                            in process. The only Senator Wilson then in the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate was Henry Wilson, Grant's running mate.
                              
                                 30 Thomas Jefferson Cason (1828-1901) practiced law at 
                                                Lebanon
                                            . He represented 
                                                Boone
                                             and 
                                                Hendricks counties
                                             at the state House of Representatives, 1861-1865, and at the
                                            state Senate, 1865-1867. He
                           
                                     to your wishes. I agreed to
                                    send you this note, and not doubting you desire to rid yourself of the annoyance of
                                    at least Cason' District I trust you will signify your desire to Mr
                                    Marshall… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sunday Eve. [February 23, 1873]
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        I shall esteem quite a favor if you can send to my son, Dr. W. M. Orth, at 
                                        Lafayette
                                    , a copy of the "Medical & Surgical History of the War" so soon
                                    as ready for distribution… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    3/14, 1873
                                
                        Hon. D. D. Pratt
                        Is there any opposition to Millers reappointment as PM at this place.
                                    Answer… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    April 11, 1873
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        Yours of yesterday is reed. I am aware that there are quite a number of clever
                                    gentlemen in our State who have a hankering for friend Park's position, but
                                    I have reason to believe that the administration does not desire any change.
                        A letter from Secy. Fish,31 now before me contains the following "Not being aware of
                                    any reason for a change in the incumbency of the Consulate at Aix la Chappie your
                                    desire for Mr. Park's retention will be all that is necessary to secure
                                    that result."
                        I have quoted as much of the Secretary's letter to me, to enable you to
                                    state to your Correspondents what seems to be the determinaion of the State Dept. in
                                    this matter.
                        Mr. Park has no special claims for the position. He is one of the
                                    oldest and most faithful Republicans in the State, laboring at all times and under
                                    all circumstances for the success of our cause, giving his time and his money
                                    freely-never croaking, never complaining. His character is above reproach-he is in
                                    all respects a gentlemana classical scholar-a practical common sense man who never
                                    shrinks from the performance of duty-and he has discharged his official duties with
                                    singular fidelity and to the entire satisfaction of the President.
                        In view of civil service reform (now so much vaunted) he ought to be permitted to
                                    remain at his post if he desires it-but there are some queer things done in this
                                    world, and especially so at 
                                        Washington
                                    , sometimes, but there is no telling what his fate may be.
                        I have long since schooled myself into the philosophy "to take the world as it
                                    comes."…
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    May 5, 1873
                                
                        Friend Pratt,
                        I presume you will attend the 
                                        St. Louis
                                     Convention and also accompany the Excursion Party to Galveston.
                        I think it well for all Western Members of Congress to do so.
                        
                           served as common pleas judge of 
                                            Boone County
                                        , 1867-1871, and was elected as a Republican to the Forty-third and
                                        Forty-fourth congresses, 1873-1877.
                           
                              31
                                        
                                            Hamilton
                                         Fish (1808-1893) was President Grant's brilliant secretary
                                        of state, serving from 1869 to 1877. Previously he had served in Congress,
                                        1843-1845; as governor of 
                                            New York
                                        , 1849-1850; and in the 
                                            United States
                                         Senate, 1851-1857.
                        
                        
                        Genl Packard,32 Judge Cason, & probably Mr. Tyner33 expect to leave via the Valley Road next- Saturday morning, and we should be much pleased to have you with
                                    us… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Washington D. C.
                           
                                    Monday Morning. [December 8, 1873]
                                
                        Dear Pratt,
                        Our old and mutual friend Defrees will probably call and see you this evening on a
                                    little Financial matter. I hope you will be able (as I am not) to accommodate
                                    him… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington, D.C.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Mch 11, 1874
                                
                        Friend Pratt,
                        A good friend of mine, Jos. C. Suit, Esq. of Jefferson, Inda. wants a Copy of the
                                    Globe and Appendix. My copies are all dis- tributed. Can you accommodate
                                    him? He is the son of our mutual friend, Jas. Suit, dec… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 . D.C.
                           
                                    May 11, 1874
                                
                        My dear Colfax,
                        Your note is recd. I almost envy you your "otium cum etc." Public service
                                    here is very tame in contrast with the exciting scenes through which you & I
                                    passed, in the grand effort to save the Republic.
                        Not only have the scenes, changed, but the principal actors are nearly all gone-and
                                    new men attempt to occupy their places- Of those of the old
                                    regime, who remain, it might almost be said that "they lag superfluous on the
                                    stage."
                        I might say many things to you-if we were vis a vis, but shall not trust the
                                    uncertainties of a letter- Why did you not pay the Capitol, at least, a flying visit
                                    this Session? You have many friends here who speak kindly of past
                                    memories & past services, but alas! also some enemies- Who amongst us is
                                    without them… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Sept 23, 1874.
                                
                        My dear Pratt,
                        I regret very much to hear that you have been compelled, in consequence of
                                    indisposition, to retire from the campaign for the present.
                        I hope that a few days rest and good nursing will bring you out all right.
                        You undertook too great a task, in the midst of the terribly heated term through
                                    which we have passed.
                        Speaking every day, losing rest by frequent night travel to meet your appointments,
                                    and then holding forth for three or four hours is too great a
                                    draft on a man's constitution.
                        I have been quite under the weather since our return from 
                                        Washington
                                    , but at the urgent request of friends have agreed to make about a dozen
                                    of speeches-commencing next week.
                        What think you of the prospect. I sometimes feel disheartened… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  32
                        
                            Jasper
                         Packard (1832-1899), lawyer, was brevetted a brigadier general during the Civil
                        War, and served as a representative in Congress, 1869-1875.
               
                  33 James N. Tyner (1826-1904) practiced law in Peru and was a
                        representative in Congress, 1869-1875. Having served in the Post Office Department in several
                        different capacities, he became post master general, 1876-1877.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    LaFayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    Apl. 6, 1875
                                
                        My dear Mr. Pratt:-
                        Am sorry you cannot be with us tonight. I shall leave in a day or two for Washt. and
                                    thence meet my family in N. York from which point we expect to sail on the 21st.
                        Shall I have the pleasure of hearing from you at 
                                        Vienna
                                    ? …
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              The American Legation at 
                                    Vienna
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Oct 30, 1875
                                
                        My dear Mr. Fish:
                        While in 
                                        Hungary
                                     some ten days since I visited the celebrated wine cellars of Messrs.
                                    Palagyuy & Sons at Pazsony (Pressburg) the most extensive in that country.
                        As native Hungarian wines are somewhat of a rarity in our Country I ordered a small
                                    quantity (of several varieties) to be forwarded to you, by them, which I beg you to
                                    accept as a very slight token of remembrance of the kindness I have uniformly
                                    experienced at your hands.
                        I enclose a list of the wines ordered.
                        They are forwarded through Messrs. McDonald & Co. of Hamburg, who are
                                    instructed to send them via 
                                        New York
                                     or 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , whichever may be the most expeditious route, and also to pay the
                                    freight to the port of destination. The import duty I could, of course, not arrange
                                    here.
                        
                           
                              
                                            Red Wine
                                        
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              Chateau Palagyuy
                              (1868)
                              6 Bottles
                           
                           
                              Villyaner
                              "
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              Ofner (Budai Saskege)
                              "
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              Erlauer
                              "
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              Szegszarder
                              "
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              
                                            White Wine
                                        
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              Magyarader
                              (1811)
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              Somlauer
                              (1834)
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              Bakatover
                              (1858)
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              Hungarian Sherry
                              
                              6 "
                           
                           
                              
                                            Dessert Wine
                                        
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              Takayer
                              Ausbruch
                              (1827)
                              3 "
                           
                           
                              Ruster
                              "
                              "
                              3 "
                           
                        
                        The above is the list of wines referred to… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              The American Legation 
                                    Vienna
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March 11, 1876.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Fish:-
                        As advised by official Despatches I have fully closed the business of this Legation
                                    and presented Mr. Delaplaine34 at the Foreign Office at Charge
                                    d'Affaires.
                        It is my purpose to leave here in a day or two, and rejoin my family now in 
                                        Italy
                                    .
                        Thence I go, via 
                                        Switzerland
                                     and the Rhine to 
                                        London
                                     and expect to sail for the U. States from Liverpool on the 3rd of May.
                        Having accepted the nomination of our friends for Governor 
                              
                                 34 John F. Delaplaine, of 
                                                New York
                                            , served as secretary of the legation at 
                                                Vienna
                                            , 1869-1881.
                           
                                     of Indiana, it is my purpose, on my arrival at 
                                        Washington
                                     to place my resignation in your hands.35
                        
                        My brief residence here, for which I am solely indebted to the Kindness of the
                                    President and yourself, has been exceedingly pleasant.
                        Myself & family have enjoyed good health, made many acquaintances-been
                                    cordially received by the Court and others-see much of Europe and I trust learned
                                    something… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.>
                           
                                    Augt. 12, 1876.
                                
                        My dear Colfax,
                        Please accept my thanks for your letter of the 10th inst.
                        Rest assured that its good Kind words have left an impression not easily to be
                                    effaced, while your approval of my course confirms my belief in its propriety.
                        The public mind is not only fearfully sensitive on the subject of charges against
                                    public men-but for the last few years, many leading Republicans seemed more
                                    interested in seeing their associates, rather than their political opponents,
                                    injured and destroyed.
                        Am glad to hear of your peace & prosperity, and sincerely hope it may
                                    continue to the end… .
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Hon. Dr. P. Baldwin]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 23, 1877
                                
                        I received your kind invitation to attend the funeral of our mutual friend, Senator
                                    Pratt, and regret very much that engagements have prevented me from being with you
                                    and his many friends on that mournful occasion.
                        Will you please present to Mrs. Pratt the sincere condolence and sympathy of Mrs.
                                    Orth and myself-in this her hour of sad bereavement.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Oct 16, 1878.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Colfax-
                        Please accept my sincere thanks for your Kind letter of the 13th.
                        I have had a most bitter, malignant and unscrupulous contest against me, but thanks
                                    to the efforts of firm and steadfast friends the Verdict is on the right
                                    side… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Sept 22, 1879.
                                
                        My dear Schuyler,
                        Please accept my thanks for the "[Ottoman?] Democrat," containing
                                    the Weaver interview, you so kindly sent me.
                        The "Contest" has given me little uneasiness. So far as I know, if they oust me, it
                                    will be through pure "cussedness" and those things usually recoil-
                        For many months I have endulged the hope of being able to meet you, but our paths do
                                    not seem to cross.
                        I have been wanting to say to you personally-what I shall now say on paper. You owe
                                    it to yourself-to your family-to your friends -to your party and to your Country to
                                    re-enter public life-either as our candidate for Governor, or M.C from your
                                    District.
                        We are on the ascending wave and to the Denis, it will be a tidal wave-and no more
                                    auspicious moment will ever greet you.
                        
                           
                              35 Party discord caused Orth to withdraw from the race in
                                        favor of Benjamin Harrison.
                        
                        
                        I Know what I say and I Know that I am right in my judgment and in its
                                    expression… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wash City
                           
                                    May 24, 1880.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Fish:-
                        I have taken the liberty of sending you by this day's post a copy of my
                                    recent remarks in the House in reference to one of the Congrl. Investigations of
                                    1876.
                        I trust that its perusal, in some leisure moment, may serve to assure you that I have
                                    not been unworthy of the confidence which you and other friends have heretofore
                                    reposed in me… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    June 14, 1880.
                                
                        My dear Genl. [James A. Garfield]36
                        
                        Please accept my sincere congratulations.
                        Your nomination is well received-and we shall labor with might and main to give you
                                    the Electoral vote of Indiana.
                        As an old friend permit me to add a word:-You are too [blank space in copy] my
                                    judgment no necessity exists for you, either in your letter of acceptance or
                                    otherwise, to commit yourself or your friends to the one term principle…
                                    .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind
                           
                                    July 20, 1880
                                
                        My dear General [Garfield],
                        Your recent favor is received and I cheerfully comply with your request, to send you
                                    news of the Campaign in our State from time to time.
                        Last week I was renominated for Congress- The District, by the election of 1878 is
                                    Democratic, and the Deras & Greenbackers37 are
                                    endeavoring to unite on a Candidate against me.
                        If accomplished it makes the race very doubtful, if not hopeless, but I felt I [blank
                                    space in copy] this position as in any other, even should defeat be my portion-and
                                    hence I have accepted the nomination.
                        IIancock38 is not as strong with us, as he was ten days agoand I
                                    have reason to believe will continue to grow weaker.
                        The Democracy in our State are not by any means harmonious -and the nomination of
                                        English39 instead of aiding, will weaken the Ticket.
                        I do not know and have not heard of a single Republican [blank space in copy].
                        
                           
                              36 James A. Garfield (1831-1881), a Civil War general from 
                                            Ohio
                                        , served in the state Senate in 1859, in Congress from 1863 to 1880,
                                        and was elected to the 
                                            United States
                                         Senate in 1880; but on the day this term began, he was inaugurated
                                        as President of the 
                                            United States
                                        . He was assassinated four months later.
                           
                              37 The Greenback party had polled over a million votes in
                                        1878 and in 1880 put up General James B. Weaver of 
                                            Iowa
                                         as a presidential candidate. He received approximately 350,000
                                        votes.
                           
                              38 General Winfield S. Hancock (1824-1886) was the third
                                        Civil War veteran in this presidential race, being the Democratic nominee. 
                                            Hancock
                                         was one of the ablest generals of the Union, and most of the credit
                                        for the victory at 
                                            Gettysburg
                                         goes to him.
                           
                              39 William H. English (1822-1896) was principal clerk in
                                        1843 and speaker in 1851 and 1852 in the state House of Representatives. He
                                        served in Congress as a Democrat, 1853-1861. He ran on the Democratic ticket for
                                        vice-president with Hancock in 1880, but was unsuccessful.
                        
                        
                        The effort of the Dem'ts to assail your character has utterly failed-and instead of
                                    harming has had a contrary effect.
                        From these statements I draw the conclusion that there is strong hope of our ability
                                    to carry the State for you-and you can rest assured that if active, untiring labor
                                    can accomplish it-it will be done… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    July 31, 1880-
                                
                        My dear Genl. [Garfield]
                        I have just completed the "Organizing Campaign" of my District.
                        Found our friends everywhere hopeful, energetic and enthusiasticAm satisfied that
                                    every day is making us stronger.
                        Will leave on Monday for N. York to meet the several Committees and prominent friends
                                    for consultation.
                        In my judgment it would be entirely proper, and certainly very desirable, to have you
                                    present with us-or at least within easy distance, during our meeting…
                                .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Sept. 2, 1880
                                
                        Dear General [Garfield]
                        This will be handed you by Wm. Flanders of this city, a prominent
                                    Member of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers-and a good Citizen.
                        He will also present you a letter from our mutual friend General J. D. Cox.40… .
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Hon. Ed. McPherson]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Ind.
                           
                                    Oct. 18/80.
                                
                        My dear Sir:-
                        This will be handed you by my friend Capt. A. F. McMillan of my District and in the
                                    Govt. Employ at 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        There is an assessment of $60. against him and I know that he has devoted
                                    more than a month of his time and spent twice that amount in our campaign. Under the
                                    circumstances I think it but right that he be relieved of that
                                    assessment… .
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Garfield]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                 , Ind.
                           
                                    Dec. 30th 1880.
                                
                        I am well acquainted with Mr. Eoush and have known him for many years. He is a
                                    gentleman of high personal character-of fine culture, and good business
                                    qualifications. I shall be much gratified to hear of the success of his
                                    application… .
                        Louis Kimmel, Mayor of 
                                        Lafayette
                                    .
                        Godlove O. Behm
                        James Fullis, Presidential Elector 9th Dist.
                        Austin L. Kumler, State Central Committee.
                        Henry Taylor, Ex. State Senator.
                        A. H. Yount, Central Committee.
                        James T. Chute, Clerk of 
                                        Tippecanoe County
                                    .
                        John G. Sample, President Lincoln Club.
                        John W. Heath, Prest. 
                                        Lafayette
                                     National Bank.
                        S. Vater, Editor 
                                        Lafayette
                                     Journal.
                        
                           
                              40 Jacob D. Cox (1828-1900), governor of 
                                            Ohio
                                         and Union general, was secretary of the interior under Grant but
                                        was forced out of that office by the President in 1870. Cox served in Congress,
                                        1877-1879. Later he became dean of the 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         Law School and president of the University of 
                                            Cincinnati
                                        .
                        
                        
                        J. Kelly O'Neal, Representative-State.
                        L. R. Thompson, Editor Home Journal.
                        Col. W. C. Wilson, Att. at. Law.
                        Wm. H. Bryan, Ex. Representative.
                        James Park, Ex. Judge and Consul to Aix La Chappelle.
                        John Rosser, Ex. Representative.
                        George B. Williams
                        Daniel Royse, Clerk Supreme Court.
                        John Opp, ex. County Commissioner.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Orth to Garfield]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  D C
                           
                                    Jan 24, 1881
                                
                        President told me on Saturday he would appoint Baxter41 Surgeon
                                    General if you desired it Would be pleased to have you make the request…
                                    .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Lafayette
                                  Inda
                           
                                    March 19, 1881.
                                
                        My dear Sir [Garfield] :-
                        I notice that the question of an Extra Session of Congress is being discussed by the
                                    public Press.
                        In my judgment nothing but an urgent and unavoidable necessity would justify it.
                        Since my return from 
                                        Washington
                                     I have taken some pains to ascertain the drift of public sentiment in
                                    my District and other portions of the State, and with scarcely a dissenting opinion
                                    the sentiment is decidedly averse to an Extra Session. This is peculiarly the
                                    sentiment of our intelligent business men, whose response is- "give us a rest from
                                    political or financial excitement."
                        Should it be necessary Congress might be convened early in the fall, say about the
                                    middle of Octo. or 1st of November… .
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  41 Jedediah H. Baxter (1837-1890), of 
                            Vermont
                        , was appointed surgeon general August 16, 1890, holding this office until his death
                        the following December.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               David Dale Owen, Pioneer Geologist of the Middle West. By Walter 
                        Brookfield
                     Hendrickson. Indiana Historical Collections, XXVII. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1943, pp. xiii, 180. $2.00.)
            This interesting biography of one of the leaders in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, adds to the literature that has appeared in connection with that social
                    experiment. David Dale, the fourth son of Robert Owen, was born at New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , and was educated in 
                        Scotland
                     and 
                        Switzerland
                     before coming to 
                        New Harmony
                     with his father in 1828. He soon left for a short residence in 
                        New York
                     and for further study in 
                        England
                     before returning to make 
                        New Harmony
                     his home. Here he continued his scientific studies under great handicaps, building and
                    equipping a remarkable laboratory and museum.
            In 1837 and 1838 the state of Indiana provided for a geological survey. Owen was appointed state
                    geologist and after tours of inspection and study, he prepared the first two reports on the geology
                    of the state.
            Congress in 1839 required information upon mineral deposits in order to prevent the sale of public
                    lands containing valuable mineral resources. Owen was appointed late in 1839 to make a survey of the
                    lead mining regions of 
                  Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Iowa
                    . From the survey were prepared maps, exhibits of specimens, and a report.
                    Owen's next task was to broaden his scientific knowledge, to become acquainted with other
                    geologists, and to win their confidence and respect. In doing these things, he achieved a reputation
                    as the leading geologist of the Middle West.
            Provisions were made in 1847 for opening the Chippewa Land District in northeastern 
                        Minnesota
                     and Owen was employed to make a survey in order that the mineral land could be
                    distinguished from the non-mineral. The survey was broadened to include 
                  Iowa, Minnesota
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and the Report attracted attention both at home and abroad. In the
                    last six years of his life he managed a survey for 
                        Kentucky
                    , another for 
                        Arkansas
                    , and under his direction, his brother Richard undertook a new survey for Indiana.
                    Overwork and hardships encountered in his field work brought death in 1860 to David Dale Owen. The
                    author concludes  that Owen's main contribution was the
                    determination and naming of the major geological formations of the Mississippi
                    Valley, placing them broadly in their relative positions in the geologic time scale and
                    helping to standardize geologic nomenclature throughout the 
                        United States
                    .
            A bibliography of Owen's writings as well as a bibliography of works used by Hendrickson in
                    preparing this work are to be found in this little volume.
         
         
            
               Freedom's Ferment. By Alice Felt Tyler. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1944, pp. x, 608. $5.00.)
            Of the phases of American social history to 1860, Mrs. Tyler has taken two dominant trends as the
                    theme of her study: "Cults and Utopias" and "Humanitarian Crusades." In exposition
                    of the former topic, the author has dealt briefly with the religious life of colonial America, and
                    has developed at greater length the Utopian strivings of early nineteenth-century America. The very
                    obvious movements are discussed, such as transcendentalism, Brook Farm, Bronson Alcott and
                    Fruitlands, Mormonism, Shakerism, and 
                        New Harmony
                    ; and lesser-known phenomena are also depicted: the Fox sisters and their spirit
                    rappings, Frances Wright and 
                        Nashoba
                    , and Jemima Wilkinson, the Universal Friend.
            In treating the latter subject, "Humanitarian Crusades," Mrs. Tyler has undertaken
                    to sketch the history of the antislavery movement and its culmination in the Civil War; early
                    nineteenth-century women's rights movement; the nationalistic, nativistic, anti-Roman
                    Catholic and anti-Masonic episodes in our nation's history; temperance; education; and
                    criminal and social reform. All have been treated with a facile pen, though the exposition
                    occasionally seems interlarded with quotations.
            Mrs. Tyler has the gift of writing well; her study can be criticized from one point of view, however,
                    as being too textbookish. It is on this comment that most reviewers would indulge in obiter dictum. Depending upon the reader's approach to the book, it will appear
                    as too lengthy for general exposition, too reliant upon secondary materials, and perhaps in part
                    even superfluous.
            The general reader will find in this book a good summation of the various "crack-pot" movements that
                    studded this period. It represents a mine of information within its limits,  but there are gaps. No mention is made of medical history, of the
                    mushroom growth of medical and eclectic colleges in reference to the history of American higher
                    education, nor of the development of American philosophy within the colleges and its bearing upon
                    the philosophical and religious life of the nation. These are seemingly serious omissions. The
                    stress, moreover, is upon the abnormal. No mention is made of the crusading zeal of the Protestant
                    circuit riders or of the early Roman priests and bishops on the frontier. Though the attitudes of
                    the churches on slavery are briefly discussed, it would have been a more complete picture had the
                    ecclesiastical background been depicted. The attitudes of the churches are perhaps best understood
                    in the light of historical perspective. It would have given a better setting for the abnormal and
                    aberrational in cultist development had a comparison with normal church growth been drawn.
            The specialist in early 
                        United States
                     history will find this book disappointing; its possibilities are great, but its
                    realizations fall short of the ideal. Relying almost wholly on published material, Mrs. Tyler has
                    presented little not already available to the researcher. Her greatest contribution to the
                    specialist is perhaps her very extensive notes and bibliography.
            The student will approach this book as a boon. It should be required reading for every student
                    meeting American history for the first time in college. It will give the student a survey of those
                    fundamentals of faith, truth and half-truth to which our forebears often clung so tenaciously.
                    Dependent upon the reader's background and technical intellectual equipment, the approach
                    to this study will be eager, hesitant, or even reluctant. It offers much to the novice, but little
                    to the specialist, from the standpoint of depth of treatment.
            To all it offers a fine summation of the knowledge and facts in that field to which Mrs. Tyler has
                    limited herself, to "the religious movements and the adventures in reform of the early years of the
                    republic" which were the "truly significant activities of the men and women of the age…
                    ."
            Robert H. Irrmann
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Comes of Age, 1873-1900. By Philip D. Jordan. Edited by Carl F. Wittke. Vol. V
                    of The History of the State of 
                            Ohio
                        , in six volumes. (
                  Columbus:
                            Ohio
                State Archaeological and Historical
                    Society, 1943, pp. xiii, 550. $25.00 for set.)
            This volume describes the development of a Middle Western commonwealth in the last quarter of the
                    nineteenth century. Although the task of organizing and coordinating the various phases of life was
                    difficult, it was accomplished with much success. The work includes politics, agriculture,
                    transportation, city life, industry, and a conglomeration of material which is usually classified as
                    social history.
            
               
                        Ohio
                    's political history was unusually significant in this period for three of her
                    sons became President, while others achieved prominence of a somewhat lesser degree. It was
                    necessary to relate two stories in the chapters on politics, one delineating the state contests and
                    the other describing national developments, particularly those phases of special significance to 
                        Ohio
                    . Agricultural activities are pictured, including crops, animals, improved methods,
                    machinery, the Grange, and other factors influencing the life of the farmer. The decline of the
                    canal system, the coming of the railroads, and the struggle for state regulation of railroad rates
                    are narrated in a chapter on transportation. The rise of industry and big business gave 
                        Ohio
                     such varied products as the cash register, farm machinery, iron and coal, and such
                    other results as the rise of urban centers, labor controversies, and the development of insurance
                    and fire prevention. The shame of city government is painted in a realistic manner under the title,
                    "Bosses and Boodle."
            A second chapter, "The Rise of the City," tells the story of the foreign born; of
                    the rise of fire, police, and health protection; and of the organizations devoted to charities,
                    religion, education, and sports. A third chapter on politics is divided between the election of
                    William McKinley to the presidency and the activities of Joseph B. Foraker, Mark Hanna, John
                    Sherman, and other leaders who endeavored to control the Republican party, win the elections, and
                    meet the popular demand for regulation of big business. They endeavored to do the latter without
                    injuring the corporations.
            The great variety of material included in the author's concept of history is indicated by
                    the last four chapters of this volume. They involve a description of 
                        Ohio
                    's development in respect to architecture, furniture, fashions, lodges,  fairs, and sports; the treatment of the sick, the unfortunate,
                    and the criminals; the habits of Ohioans in regard to reading and music; the development of schools
                    and colleges; the activities of a varied list of inventors and scientists; and, finally, the work of
                    a host of literary writers and artists.
            There are occasional statements in the volume which will be questioned. For example: "It was
                    well known that Grant was not a candidate for re-election [in 1876]…" (p. 50);
                    "In 1879… the secretary of the treasury resumed specie payment, and the Nation again was
                    on a gold basis" (p. 152); and "The elections of 1878 were unimportant as only Congressmen were to
                    be voted upon…" Oddly enough, the campaign of 1896 is eloquently described but
                    without treating the People's party (pp. 322-23). The extent to which social history takes
                    the historian in his search of truth is revealed on pages 433-34 where the invention of artificial
                    fish bait is the subject of comment. In the discussion of disease and of medical advance, the use of
                    technical medical terms unknown to the laymen may encourage the tendency to lay the book aside
                    rather than to persevere to the end. All of these are, however, quite minor points.
            Excellent illustrations, some thirty in number, grace the narrative and make a contribution to the
                    reader. The work is well annotated and indexed but, like the other volumes of the series, lacks a
                    bibliography. Unfortunately, the author's name is misspelled on the outside cover. It is
                    quite obvious, however, that the defects are minor and of little importance and that the volume is a
                    significant addition to the historiography of 
                        Ohio
                    .
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Behind the Lines in the Southern Confederacy. By Charles W. Ramsdell. The Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History. (
                  Baton Rouge: Louisiana
                State University Press, 1944, pp. xxi, 136. $2.00.)
            
               The Plain People of the Confederacy. By Bell Irvin Wiley. The
                        Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History. (
                  Baton Rouge: Louisiana
               
                    State University Press, 1943, pp. ix, 104. $1.50.)
            These little volumes give interesting pictures of the nonmilitary history of the Confederacy. They
                    are timely volumes  which reveal how a portion of the people of
                    this country fared in a previous war, how they resisted the demoralizing developments which arose
                    during that long struggle, and how a brave people continued until defeat overcame them.
            The first of these is the result of the mature scholarship of a former leading authority on the
                    Confederacy. It treats the numerous problems which the government of the Confederate states failed
                    to solve and the effects of the failures upon the people at home. "It was inevitable that discontent
                    should be felt and voiced by those who suffered undue privations, especially when they saw their
                    children go without shoes, warm clothing, meat, and sometimes without bread [p. 45]."
            Public finance, the scarcity of necessities, high prices, speculation, lack of adequate
                    transportation facilities, the suffering of the poor, especially the women and children at home, all
                    led the Southern people to lose some of their faith in laissez faire and to demand
                    that their governments should act to bring relief. When successful remedies were not produced,
                    demoralization and desertion resulted. Governments strove to find remedies, even adopting measures
                    which were contrary to well-established practices and prejudices. The people of the South labored
                    manfully and devotedly against discouragements until their experiment in Southern nationalism
                    disintegrated before their eyes and they were overwhelmed by superior forces. Conditions on the home
                    front were fundamental causes of the collapse, according to Professor Ramsdell.
            A bibliography of the writings of the author and an introduction by a distinguished native of
                    Indiana, Dean Wendell H. Stephenson of 
                        Louisiana
                     State University, are other features of the work. The editor of this series acted
                    wisely in publishing these lectures even though the author did not live to give them the revision he
                    had planned.
            The second volume is also an interesting description of life in the Confederacy among the common
                    people. The author is a much younger man but one who produced an excellent volume in 1943, The Life of Johnny Reb: The Common Soldier of the Confederacy (see review in this
                    periodical, XXXIX, June, 1943, pp. 192-93), and an earlier volume on Southern
                    Negroes, 1861-1865. The material presented in chapters one and three of the present work bears
                    considerable  able resemblance in shorter form to these volumes.
                    The new material, therefore, is to be found largely in the second chapter, "The Folk at
                    Home." Even this chapter contains some information which had been presented by Ramsdell.
            The beginning student of Confederate history will find much interest in this volume, but the scholar
                    will turn rather to the author's longer works. The realistic approach and the rejection of
                    former idealistic pictures of negroes, soldiers, and people alike should appeal to students of
                    Southern history.
         
         
            
               The Wake of the 
                            Prairie
                         Schooner. By Irene D. Paden. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1943, pp. xix, 514. $3.00.)
            An usual mixture of sound history derived from early day sources and the personal reminiscences of
                    the author results in a vivid and informative account of the old 
                        Oregon
                     or the 
                        California
                     trail. Following the two forks of the trail which branched out in the vicinity of Fort
                    Hall and Soda Springs and which lead to the Willamette Valley and the 
                        California
                     gold diggings, Mrs. Paden personally travelled the entire route westward from 
                        St. Joseph
                    , the immigrants' historic "jumping place."
            Mrs. Paden's technique combined with literary skill has made the history of the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail live again for the present generation. Describing what is still visible of the
                    old trail, no known aspects of the arduous journeys undertaken by western pioneers have escaped Mrs.
                    Paden's attention. The organization of the caravans, the battles with the elements, and
                    accounts of Indian attacks, hunger, thirst, and death are related. Personalities such as Marcus and
                    Narcissa Whitman, Meacham, Bridges, 
                        Fremont
                    , Hunt, and the Applegates appear frequently. Since the author is not confined to any
                    one particular year or to any particular migration, she draws, as did Archer B. Hulbert in his Forty-Niners, upon related experiences for her illustrative material. A white man
                    is skinned alive by Indians, and wagons are lost in the quicksands of the meandering Platte River.
                    She weaves in the history surrounding the innumerable historic landmarks, some of which, like
                    Chimney Rock and Court House Rock, will remain monuments for all time.
            The maps and drawings are also of Mrs. Paden's handiwork.  The former comprise sections of the trail and, when pieced together, form a remarkably detailed
                    and accurate map of the entire route with important place names, cutoffs, streams, and other
                    landmarks clearly indicated.
            Wartime restrictions, unfortunately, have necessitated encasing the volume in an inexpensive-looking
                    binding. Such a good and interesting book is deserving of a more attractive cover.
            Oscar 0. Winther
         
         
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN, 1875-1944
            The death of Dr. Coleman, June 25, 1944, will bring sorrow to many of the readers of the Indiana Magazine of History. As director of the Indiana Historical Bureau and secretary of
                    the Indiana Historical Society, he has been closely associated with this publication. In earlier
                    years he was its editor (1908-1911). Almost from the beginning, he was a frequent contributor and
                    more recently prepared for each issue a short statement about the Indiana Historical Society. He was
                    widely known in the state and nation, and his friendly leadership will be missed throughout Indiana.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            Genealogy Section
            INDICES TO COUNTY RECORDS
            The Genealogy Division of the State Library has recently acquired a large number of indices to birth,
                    death, and marriage records in 
                        Indiana counties
                    . These indices were compiled by the Works Project Administration in 1939-1940 under the
                    supervision of the State Department of Public Welfare and until recently have been kept in the
                    Public Welfare Office.
            The indices to the marriage records cover largely the period from 1850 to 1920, but in some
                    instances-Allen, 
                  Delaware, Greene
               , and 
                        Marion
                     counties-the indices begin with the first marriage records in the counties. For some
                    counties the indices to the marriage records did not begin until 1882. Names of the men and women
                    are listed in alphabetical order with the date of marriage and reference to the book and page of the
                    original volume on which the record may be found.
            The systematic recording of births and deaths was not begun in Indiana until 1882, and in many
                    counties the records are not complete until a much later date. The indices to the birth records show
                    the name of the father and mother and the date of birth. Unfortunately, the Christian name given to
                    the child is not recorded in the original records in about half of the cases, the attending
                    physician apparently turning in the record that a child was born without waiting to learn the name
                    given to it. The indices to the death records cover in general the period from 1882 to 1920 and show
                    the date and place of death and the age at death.
            In addition to the above indices, the names recorded in the Federal Census of 1880 were copied for
                    the following counties: Clinton, Howard, 
                  Jasper, Marion
               , Parke, 
                        Shelby
                    , and 
                        Wayne
                    . These show the age of each person at that time and include children as well as adults.
                    The Genealogy Division also has the original census for Center Township, 
                        Marion County
                    .
            None of the above indices are available for records in the following counties: 
                  Blackford, Brown
               ,
                    Crawford, 
                  Dearborn, Decatur
               , Dubois, 
                  Fayette, Fulton
               , Grant, Jefferson, Jennings, Lawrence, Marshall,
                    Noble, 
                        Ohio
                    , Porter, 
                  Randolph, Ripley
               , Rush, Scott, 
                        Steuben
                    , 
                        Switzerland
                     , 
                        Tipton
                    , Union, 
                  Vermillion, Wabash
               , and 
                        Whitley
                    . For 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Jackson counties
                     the  indices cover only the birth records,
                    1882-1920. For 
                        Kosciusko
                     and La 
                        Grange counties
                    , the indices cover the birth and death records from 1882 to 1920 but not the marriage
                    records. Marriage applications and transcripts and lists of registered voters are indexed for some
                    counties.
            Although the original records, and especially the birth records, upon which these indices are based
                    are known to be incomplete and to contain errors and other errors may be expected in the
                    transcribing and copying of names, nevertheless persons interested in genealogical research will
                    welcome the addition of this material to the collection in the State Library and will no doubt find
                    these indices very useful and valuable.
         
         
            WAYNE COUNTY MARRIAGE RECORDS, 1817-18201 (contd.)
            MRS. IRENE M. STRIEBY
            
               
                  
                            Names
                        
                  
                            Dates
                        
                  
                            Married By
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                            License
                        
                  
                            Marriage
                        
                  
               
               
                  Bryan Seany & Sally Little
                  4-18-1817
                  4-20-1817
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 1
               
               
                  John Scott & Margaret Davis
                  4-2001817
                  4-20-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  James Conner & Mary McCoy
                  5-21-1817
                  4-20-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Platt Montgomery & Nancy Little
                  4-10-1817
                  4-17-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
            
            
               
                  1 Transcribed from the microfilm copy of 
                            Wayne County
                         Marriage Records, April, 1817, to March, 1820, made for the Society of Indiana
                        Pioneers in June, 1943, from Volume A, Second Book, in the clerk's office, 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana. The records published here are from the first thirty pages. The same
                        policy of making uniform the names of ministers and justices of the peace has been followed as
                        in "
                            Wayne County
                         Marriage Records," Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905-), XL (1944), 87-102. Daniel Fraley was a justice of the peace as
                        well as a minister, as was also Adam Banks, who came from 
                            Tennessee
                         to 
                            Wayne County
                         in 1815. See Andrew W. Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                            , Indiana (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1872), 87, 315. Lawrence H. Branum's name never appeared in full and the
                        spelling varies-Brannon, Branem, Brannum. The Reverend Stephen Oldham's name appears
                        most frequently; however, a Reverend William Oldham appears, also. There may be errors in the
                        spelling of given names as well as in the surnames. A correction should be made regarding the
                        reference to the 1810 list of taxpayers of 
                            Wayne County
                         in the Indiana Magazine of History, XL (1944), 88. The records
                        referred to are those of the election returns of 1809 and 1812, on file in the Indiana
                        Historical Society Library.
            
            
            
               
                  John Harris & Nancey Harvey
                  6-14-1817
                  6-19-1817
                  Richard Lewis, Esq.
               
               
                  James Wilcox & Mahala Roe
                  6-17-1817
                  6-19-1817
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Symms Hillis & Mary Robbins
                  6-17-1817
                  6-17-1817
                  Thomas J. Warman, Esq.
               
               
                  James Beeson & Sarah Little
                  6-17-1817
                  6-19-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Jesse Hodges & Sally Boon
                  6-28-1817
                  6-29-1817
                  Beale Butler, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Noland & Lena Noland
                  7-17-1817
                  7-19-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq. p. 2
               
               
                  Mathias Dawson & Nancy Hardin
                  7-16-1817
                  7-19-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  James Malcomb & Priscilla Thomas
                  7-27-1817
                  8-7-1817
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Robert Royster & Seypheaney Johnson
                  8-20-1817
                  8-20-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  John Seany & Martha Chambers
                  8-20-1817
                  8-28-1817
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Conrad Frake & Sarah Case
                  9- 1-1817
                  9-2-1817
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Leonard Thrale & Elizabeth Fowler
                  9-12-1817
                  9-25-1817
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Lewis Underwood & Kesiah Bond
                  9-19-1817
                  10-9-1817
                  John Bishop, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Whitaker & Elizabeth McGogan
                  9-20-1817
                  9-28-1817
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Hall & Rebekah Hoover
                  9-27-1817
                  10-12-1817
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 3
               
               
                  Shadrach Lewallen & Elizabeth Miller
                  10-6-1817
                  10-9-1817
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  James Goodwin & Lavina Ward
                  10-12-1817
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel Boyd & Martha Lewis
                  4-5-1817
                  4-10-1817
                  Richard Lewis, Esq.
               
               
                  William Harlan & Sarah Johnson
                  10-14-1817
                  10-17-1817
                  Isaac Julian, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas P. Teagle & Rachel Bond
                  10-18-1817
                  10-24-1817
                  John Bishop, Esq.
               
               
                  David Snider & Evy Miller
                  10-21-1817
                  10-22-1817
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Thomas Cobb & Judith Railsback
                  10-18-1817
                  10-22-1817
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Walker & Rebekah Dougan
                  10-29-1817
                  10-30-1817
                  Benjamin Hodges, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Taylor & Betsy Alberts
                  11-12
                  
                  "Never solemized" p. 4
               
               
                  Benjamin Hutchins & Martha Johnson
                  11-10-1817
                  11-10-1817
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
               
                  Aaron Richardson & Elizabeth Shaw
                  11-11-1817
                  
                  "Not returned"
               
               
                  William Whiteman & Catherine Emert
                  11-17-1817
                  11-20-1817
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  James Crawford & Elizabeth Robbins
                  11-17-1817
                  11-22-1817
                  John McLane, Esq.
               
               
                  John Thomas & Peggy Whitinger
                  11-18-1817
                  11-20-1817
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Francis Bennet & Martha Fleehart (?)
                  11-20-1817
                  11-22-1817
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  David Carnes & Polly Gilliam
                  11-25-1817
                  
                  "No return"
               
               
                  Nathan Sellers & Catherine Moffit
                  11-28-1817
                  12-4-1817
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  Mathew Holcomb & Martha Shaw
                  11-29-1817
                  11-30-1817
                  Rev. John Gibson p. 5
               
               
                  William Lamb & Frances Garr
                  12-2-1817
                  12-4-1817
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Jesse Starr & Mary Fall
                  12-5-1817
                  12-11-1817
                  Rev. Barnett Starr
               
               
                  Ephraim Overman & Miriam Draper
                  12-13-1817
                  12-13-1817
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Lewis L. Canaday & Sarah Ring
                  12-14-1817
                  12-18-1817
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Benjamin Williams & Margaret Bennet
                  12-19-1817
                  12-20-1817
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Asa Dawson & Polly Hubbell
                  12-22-1817
                  12-25-1817
                  Rev. Joshua Holland
               
               
                  Enos Veal & Sally Platts
                  4-19-1817
                  4-20-1817
                  John Martindale, Esq.
               
               
                  William Durr & Dolly 
                  12-23-1817
                  
                  "Not returned"
               
               
                  John Howell & Lydia Lindley
                  12-27-1817
                  
                  "Not returned" p. 6
               
               
                  Michael Combs & Polly Edwards
                  12-27-1817
                  1-1-1818
                  Benjamin Hodges, Esq.
               
               
                  John Wade & Dorea Prevo
                  12-29-1817
                  1-1-1818
                  John Marshall, Esq.
               
               
                  Benajmin Smith & Delighty Russell
                  12-30-1817
                  2-18-1818
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Lawman & Melinda Gay
                  1-5-1818
                  1-8-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Patrick Justice & Catherine McGowin
                  1-15-1818
                  1-15-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Levi Fouts & Sarah Small
                  1-26-1818
                  1-29-1818
                  Benjamin Hodges, Esq.
               
               
                  Andrew Endsley & Sally Williams
                  1-26-1818
                  1-27-1818
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Aaron Adamson & Sally Millman
                  1-31-1818
                  2-12-1818
                  Rev. William Oldham
               
               
               
                  Thomas Wiles & Lydia Williams
                  1-31-1818
                  2-3-1818
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 7
               
               
                  Samuel Butler & Mary Davenport
                  2-2-1818
                  2-5-1818
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Nathan Williams & Margaret Adamson
                  2-1-1818
                  2-15-1818
                  Samuel Swain, Esq.
               
               
                  Solomon Harden & Catharine McCall
                  2-18-1818
                  2-18-1818
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  John Reed & Mary Stump
                  2-21-1818
                  2-22-1818
                  James Conover, Esq.
               
               
                  Brittain Conner & Lydia Lindley
                  2-20-1818
                  2-20-1818
                  John Marshall, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Powell & Mary Palmer
                  2-27-1818
                  3-5-1818
                  John Bishop, Esq.
               
               
                  William Hawkins & Isabel Powel
                  2-27-1818
                  3-5-1818
                  John Bishop, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Dawson & Hannah Williams
                  3-3-1818
                  3-5-1818
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  John Hart & Rachel Warren
                  3-3-1818
                  3-15-1818
                  Rev. John Gibson p. 8
               
               
                  Robert Gillum & Mary Smith
                  3-3-1818
                  
                  "Not returned"
               
               
                  Charles Hunt & Hannah Boon
                  3-7-1818
                  3-12-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Phinehas Thomas & Anna Conn
                  3-10-1818
                  3-12-1818
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Robert Murphy & Sally Burgess
                  3-6-1818
                  
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  Seth Coleman & Betsy Jacob
                  3-10-1818
                  3-?-1818
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Harden & Mary Williams
                  3-18-1818
                  3-23-1818
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Millman & Abigail Adamson
                  3-23-1818
                  3-26-1818
                  Rev. William Oldham
               
               
                  John Blount & Rachel Willis
                  3-28-1818
                  3-29-1818
                  John Jordan, Esq.
               
               
                  Barton Pearson & Nancy Pearson
                  3-24-1818
                  3-26-1818
                  John Marshall, Esq. p. 9
               
               
                  Poindexter Long & Catherine Lybrook
                  3-24-1818
                  3-28-1818
                  William Elder, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Wilson & Nancy Briggs
                  3-26-1818
                  3-28-1818
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Cooper & Charity White
                  3-30-1818
                  4-10-1818
                  John Marshall, Esq.
               
               
                  Adonijah Rambo & Phebe Beeson
                  3-31-1818
                  4-?-1818
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  John Frazer & Rachel Beard
                  4-1-1818
                  4-2-1818
                  Rev. James Benefiel
               
               
                  Ephraim Knott & Agness Hyers
                  4-3-1818
                  4-9-1818
                  Rev. William Oldham
               
               
               
                  Samuel Peek & Susannah Welsh
                  4-7-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  Isaac Adamson & Nancy Gardner
                  4-10-1818
                  4-12-1818
                  John Marshal, Esq.
               
               
                  Jesse Long & Eve Lybrook
                  5-8-1818
                  5-13-1818
                  William Elder, Esq. p. 10
               
               
                  John Silvers & Frony Kruger
                  5-11-1818
                  5-11-1818
                  Judge William McLane
               
               
                  John Case & Sarah Caldwell
                  6-8-1818
                  6-11-1818
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  James McCormack & Patsy Perkins
                  6-8-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Smith & Martha Dewey
                  6-16-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Beck & Judith Chinault
                  6-5-1818
                  6-18-1818
                  Rev. J. (or I?) Keny (?)
               
               
                  Adam Boyd & Elizabeth Hawkins
                  6-9-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Slater & Sarah Olliver
                  6-22-1818
                  6-26-1818
                  John Bishop, Esq.
               
               
                  William Hiers & Nancy Strong
                  7-8-1818
                  7-9-1818
                  Rev. William Oldham
               
               
                  Jesse Willis & Amelia Stanford
                  7-13-1818
                  7-16-1818
                  Rev. John Gibson p. 11
               
               
                  Thomas Beard & Malinda Erwin
                  7-15-1818
                  7-16-1818
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Jesse K. Platts & Rachel Martindale
                  7-22-1818
                  7-23-1818
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  John Summers & Catherine Crumb
                  8-4-1818
                  
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Joseph Lewis & Patsy Boyd
                  3-15-1818
                  3-22-1818
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Lambeth Heath & Nancy Johnson
                  8-7-1818
                  8-13-1818
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  William Blount & Jane Barnes
                  8-18-1818
                  8-?-1818
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Joseph Cain & Polly Boon
                  8-15-1818
                  8-16-1818
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Troxel & Elizabeth Montgomery
                  8-12-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  George Cunningham & Catherine Peters
                  8-31-1818
                  
                  p. 12
               
               
                  Hosea Lamb & Polly Cook
                  8-2?-1818
                  8-23-1818
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  John Little & Barbary Porter
                  9-5-1818
                  9-10-1818
                  Samuel Swain, Esq.
               
               
                  Charles Smith & Letta Gillam
                  9-9-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Brown & Ella Thomas
                  9-14-1818
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Shubal Julian & Biddy Hoover
                  9-13-1818
                  9-18-1818
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  James Hawkins & Rebekah Dale
                  9-22-1818
                  9-24-1818
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Elisha Willets & Sally Huff
                  9-26-1818
                  9-27-1818
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  James Davis & Rhoda Codington
                  9-28-1818
                  10-1-1818
                  William Elder, Esq.
               
               
                  James Jordan & Nancy Jones
                  10-3-1818
                  10-8-1818
                  Rev, Hugh Cull p. 13
               
               
                  John Jones & Rachel Jordan
                  10-5-1818
                  10-10-1818
                  John Jones, Esq.
               
               
                  Nathan Johnson & Sally Shaw
                  10-8-1818
                  10-10-1818
                  John Jones, Esq.
               
               
                  William Shelly & Nicy Stanley
                  10-10-1818
                  10-11-1818
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  John Gray & Elizabeth Alberts
                  10-13-1818
                  10-22-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Ashton
               
               
                  David Palmer & Sally Pearson
                  10-15-1818
                  10-18-1818
                  William Brown, Esq.
               
               
                  Lydnor Dale & Hetty Tyner
                  10-19-1818
                  
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Levi Thornton & Catharine Black
                  10-21-1818
                  10-23-1818
                  John Jones, Esq.
               
               
                  Willis Parkeson & Hariet Lawman
                  10-21-1818
                  10-21-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Adam Kindal & Minty McKinny
                  10-26-1818
                  10-28-1818
                  Adam Banks, Esq. p. 14
               
               
                  Isaac Crews & Nancy Williams
                  "By publication"
                  10-?-1818
                  William Elder, Esq.
               
               
                  William Hunt & Mary Smith
                  10-21-1818
                  10-21-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Lemuel Williams & Milcah Beauchamp
                  10-24-1818
                  10-25-1818
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  John Odom & Peggy Gillam
                  11-3-1818
                  11-5-1818
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Jacob Dwye (?) & Rhoda Smith
                  11-4-1818
                  10(?)-5-1818
                  Rev. Stephen Oldham
               
               
                  Absalom Stuart & Betsy Bulla
                  11-4-1818
                  11-4-1818
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Harman Cox & Martha Cox
                  11-14-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jonas Garr & Sally Watson
                  11-10-1818
                  11-12-1818
                  Rev. James Martin
               
               
                  John Ingle & Rosa Garr
                  11-10-1818
                  11-12-1818
                  Rev. James Martin p. 15
               
               
                  Samuel Ferguson & Nancy White
                  11-9-1818
                  11-19-1818
                  Rev. Stephen Oldham
               
               
                  Job Coggshall & Barsheba Harris
                  11-10-1818
                  11-22-1818
                  John Bishop, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Isaac Dawson & Sarah Gamel (Gamble?)
                  11-19-1818
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Reese & Elizabeth Osborne
                  11-22-1818
                  11-25-1818
                  Rev. Stephen Oldham
               
               
                  Jesse Haley (Healey?) & Sarah Bundy
                  11-26-1818
                  
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  William Roe & Mary Martindale
                  12-3-1818
                  12-4-1818
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  William M. Doughty & Elizabeth Gay
                  12-2-1818
                  12-3-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Henry Wymer & Synthia Scott
                  12-5-1818
                  12-6-1818
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  John Gibson & Patsey Odell
                  12-14-1818
                  12-15-1818
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley p. 16
               
               
                  Thomas Abernathy & Susannah Fall
                  12-22-1818
                  12-24-1818
                  William Elder, Esq.
               
               
                  John Hudlow & Ann Sheffer
                  12-22-1818
                  12-25-1818
                  Benjamin Hodges, Esq.
               
               
                  Moses Cox & Sarah Hurst
                  12-28-1818
                  12-31-1818
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  William Justice & Hannah Gray
                  12-30-1818
                  12-30-1818
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Isaac Bulla & Mary Wade
                  12-26-1818
                  12-27-1818
                  Benjamin Hodges, Esq.
               
               
                  Jacob Butler & Mary Fox
                  1-?-1818(?)
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Taylor & Anna Alberts
                  1-6-1818(?)
                  1-7-1818(?)
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  John Osborn & Patsy Tyner
                  1-18-1818(?)
                  1-21-1818(?)
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Henry Rockafellow & Elinor Hurst
                  1-23-1818(?) p. 17
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joshua Wilson & Susanna Cobble (Cable?)
                  1-30-1818(?)
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel Drury & Violet Shortridge
                  2-1-1819
                  2-2-1819
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  John Costlow & Malinda West
                  2-6-1819
                  2-4(?)-1819
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Joseph Draper & Biddy Jackson
                  2-4-1819
                  2-5-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Lewis Haze (Hayes?) & Mary Reeson
                  2-9-1819
                  2-10-1819
                  John Jones, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Manifold & Susanna Butler
                  2-13-1819
                  2-18-1819
                  John Jones, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Thornbrough & Polly Brockus
                  2-16-1819
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Drury & Jane Moore
                  2-16-1819
                  2-18-1819
                  James Conover, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Thomas Beesly & Betsy White
                  2-17-1819
                  2-18-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 18
               
               
                  James Hartup & Mary Fruits
                  2-17-1819
                  2-25-1819
                  Rev. Hugh cull
               
               
                  Thomas Hurst & Nancy Montgomery
                  2-23-1819
                  8-4-1819
                  Rev. Allen Wiley
               
               
                  Simeon Farlow & Mary Ritter
                  2-24-1819
                  2-24-1819
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Eli Heaton & Mary Hurst
                  2-23-1819
                  2-27-1819
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  John Huchison & Mary Thomas
                  3-?-1819
                  3-20-1819
                  Joseph flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Wiley & Kesiah Sullivan
                  3-3-1819
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Mason & Flora McGuire
                  3-3-1819
                  3-4-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  James McKinney & Polly Little
                  3-4-1819
                  3-5-1819
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  William Morgan & Mary Harter
                  3-6-1819
                  3-9-1819
                  Joseph Flit, Esq. p. 19
               
               
                  Elisha Shortridge & Hester Crumb
                  3-8-1819
                  3-11-1819
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Solomon Madden & Ruth Robbins
                  3-9-1819
                  3-11-1819
                  John Jones, Esq. Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Bloomfield & Mary Lewis
                  3-13-1819
                  3-18-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Edq.
               
               
                  Caleb Nixon & Betsy Jester
                  3-17-1819
                  3-18-1819
                  James Conover, Esq.
               
               
                  Stephen Thomas & Margaret Clark
                  3-18-1819
                  3-18-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  George Barnard & Edith Baley (Bailey?)
                  3-23-1819
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alfred Tharp & Rebekah Moorman
                  3-20-1819
                  4-12-1819
                  John Bishop, Esq.
               
               
                   Stout &  Taylor
                  3-27-1819
                  4-1-1819
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  James Smith & Delilah Addington
                  3-30-1819
                  4-1-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 20
               
               
                  Andrew W. Bogue & Jane Gay
                  4-14-1819
                  4-15-1819
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  David Porter & Penninah Overman
                  4-1-1819
                  4-8-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Jacob D. Hornish & Tamer Bently
                  4-15-1819
                  4-15-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Edq.
               
               
                  Josiah Drake & Martha Dickerson
                  4-17-1819
                  4-18-1819
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  James McNeal & Elizabeth Garret
                  4-19-1819
                  4-20-1819
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Jonathan Prather & Rebekah Griffin
                  4-20-1819
                  4-22-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Andrew Harman & Eliza Walker
                  4-26-1819
                  4-27-1819
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Emsley Hoover & Hannah Ridge
                  4-26-1819
                  4-29-1819
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  William Knutt (Knott?) & Jane Canaday
                  4-26-1819
                  4-29-1819
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq. p. 21
               
               
                  John Nelson & Mary Mabbet
                  4-25-1819
                  5-3-1819
                  John Elder, Esq.
               
               
                  John Jorden & Rachel Roberts
                  5-1-1819
                  5-13-1819
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Benjamin Wood & Meca Boon
                  5-5-1819
                  5-5-1819
                  John C. Gibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  James McDade & Polly McKinny
                  5-6-1819
                  5-6-1819
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Stump & Mary Reed
                  5-8-1819
                  5-10-1819
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Jacob Harter & Sarah Lawson
                  5-2-1819
                  5-2-1819
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Mentor Johnson & Mahala Martin
                  5-17-1819
                  5-19-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  James. Martin & Polly Hendrix
                  5-17-1819
                  5-18-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  William Stevens & Mary Fouts
                  5-20-1819
                  5-20-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 22
               
               
                  Jeremiah Stanley & Dianna Esteb
                  5-22-1819
                  5-27-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  William Mabbet & Esther Lewis
                  6-5-1819
                  6-10-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Moses Drake & Rebekah Elston
                  6-11-1819
                  6-13-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  James Galbraith & Sarah Suttenfield
                  5-31-1819
                  6-2-1819
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq,
               
               
                  George McLane & Esther Garret
                  6-23-1819
                  6-24-1819
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Cornelius Overman & Rebekah Ford
                  6-23-1819
                  6-24-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  William Spray & Dinah Mendenhall
                  6-21-1819
                  6-23-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Petty & Betsy Murphey
                  7-3-1819
                  7-4-1819
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  John Boyd & Susanna Scott
                  7-5-1819
                  7-8-1819
                  Rev. John Gibson p. 23
               
               
                  Walter Legg & Barbary Burgess
                  7-7-1819
                  7-8-1819
                  Adam, Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Evan Chalfont & Anna Bulla
                  7-15-1819
                  7-15-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Byram Cadwalader & Sally Hagen
                  7-23-1819
                  7-25-1819
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Stephen Brewer & Susanna Wright
                  7-25-1819
                  8-29-1819
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
               
                  John See (Lee, Sea?) & Polly Haze (Hayes?)
                  7-28-1819
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Gray & Matilda Long
                  7-31-1819
                  8-9-1819
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Anderson Leverton & Phebe Starbuck
                  7-27-1819
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joshua Simpson & Betsy Martin
                  8-3-1819
                  8-5-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Richard Briggs & Jane Beard
                  8-3-1819
                  8-25-1819
                  Rev. John Beard p. 24
               
               
                  Terry Overman & Tilly Purviance
                  8-10-1819
                  8-11-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  William McKinny & Mary Hodge
                  8-13-1819
                  8-28-1819
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  John Shelby & Jane Gunn
                  8-10-1819
                  
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  William Bennet & Lydia Shelby
                  8-16-1819
                  8-19-1819
                  Rev. B. McCarty
               
               
                  Thomas Stanley & Catherine Rinker
                  8-21-1819
                  8-21-1819
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  John Keesling & Linna Bulla
                  8-21-1819
                  8-25-1819
                  Benjamin Hodges, Esq.
               
               
                  Wilkison Huchison & Susan Allen
                  8-26-1819
                  
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Michael Rader & Catherine Shelly
                  8-28-1819
                  9-2-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Wyatt & Nancy Esteb
                  9-4-1819
                  9-7-1819
                  Rev. James Smith p. 25
               
               
                  Elisha Stubbs & Elizabeth Townsend
                  9- 4-1819
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jesse Pegg & Phebe Clark
                  9- 6-1819
                  9-7-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  William Fosset (?) & Rachel Hatfield
                  9- 7-1819
                  9-9-1819
                  Barnabas McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Widup & Elizabeth Lancaster
                  9- 7-1819
                  ?-10-1819
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Isaac Sutherland & Lydia Woodward
                  9-1-1819
                  9-2-1819
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  John Fisher & Jane Starbuck
                  9-13-1819
                  9-16-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Hiram Coffin & Betsy Huffman
                  9-14-1819
                  9-16-1819
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Jesse Osborne & Susanna Craigg
                  9-15-1819
                  9-16-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Charles Reynolds & Polly DeMoss
                  9-15-1819
                  9-16-1820 (?)
                  Rev. John Beard p. 26
               
               
                  Joseph Lakin & Mary Van Meter
                  9-24-1819
                  
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  Enoch Modlin & Miriam Peacock
                  10-7-1819
                  10-7-1819
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Isaac Busbey & Sally Willits
                  10-12-1819
                  10-14-1819
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Caleb Lewis & Polly Willets
                  10-20-1819
                  10-21-1819
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Amos Clawson & Linna Davenport
                  10-18-1819
                  10-21-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Nathan Commons & Martha Bear
                  10-23-1819
                  10-23-1819
                  John Wickersham, Esq.
               
               
                  George Harlan & Emily Miller
                  10-27-1819
                  10-28-1819
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  James Gray & Margaret Hunt
                  11-11-1819
                  11-12-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Small & Abigail Stafford
                  11-11-1819
                  11-13-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 27
               
               
                  Daniel Thompson & Elenor Richardson
                  11-15-1819
                  11-16-1819
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Fielding Garr & Paulina Turner
                  11-17-1819
                  11-18-1819
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Henry Rue & Rebecca Talbert
                  11-17-1819
                  11-18-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Louthane (Lothian?) & Polly Williams
                  11-20-1819
                  11-25-1819
                  Barnabas mcManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Calvin Summers & Sarah Kidwell
                  11-22-1819
                  11-?-1819
                  Rev. Henry Logar
               
               
                  John Scott & Elizabeth Levell
                  11-22-1819
                  11-25-1819
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Daniel Thompson & Eleanor Richardson
                  11-15-1819
                  
                  "Mistake"
               
               
                  John Huff, Jr. & Esther Boswell
                  11-24-1819
                  11-25-1819
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Joseph Teagle & Ruth Bond
                  12-6-1819
                  12-8-1819
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 28
               
               
                  Samuel Gilmon & Nancy Roberts
                  12-7-1819
                  12-16-1819
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Helim Low & Mary Bowen
                  12-12-1819
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Crumb & Sarah Jobe
                  12-13-1819
                  12-16-1819
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Samuel Imel & Susannah Black
                  12-20-1819
                  12-23-1819
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Eli Moorman & Molly Thomas
                  1- 2-1820
                  1-5-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  James Cook & Sothy Ham
                  1-6-1820
                  1-13-1820
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Eli Roe & Margaret Martindale
                  1-11-1820
                  1-23-1820
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Samuel Prevo & Patty Addington
                  1-12-1820
                  1-13-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Abel Johnson & Catharine Holloday
                  1-15-1820
                  1-19-1820
                  Rev. John Beard p. 29
               
               
                  Samuel Baldridge & Betsy Rankins
                  1-15-1820
                  1-19-1820
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Elisha Willets & Mary Hannah
                  1-19-1820
                  1-20-1820
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Josiah Campbell & Mary Mason
                  1-27-1820
                  2-1-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  James Woods & Susan Shelby
                  1-31-1820
                  2-2-1820
                  Rev. B. McCarty
               
               
                  Dixon Cobb & Massy Shelby
                  1-31-1820
                  2-2-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Temple Trusty & Sarah Justice
                  2-8-1820
                  2-10-1820
                  Rev. Isaac cotton
               
               
                  Robert Willets & Sally Beard
                  2-9-1820
                  2-1-1820
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Richard Bunch & Ann Pearson
                  2-10-1820
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthew Springer & Elizabeth Dobbs
                  2-6(?)-1820
                  2-20-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 30
               
               
                  Jonathan Olson (Ogburn, Osborne?) & Rachel Small
                  2-14-1820
                  2-24-1820
                  Adam. Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  William McCarty & Lucinda Pearson
                  2-16-1820
                  
                  
               
               
                  Solomon Knight & Rebekah Hunt
                  2-6-1820
                  2-16-1820
                  Gabriel Harrall, Esq.
               
               
                  Phillip Renbarger & Ana Williams
                  2-19-1820
                  2-24-1820
                  Barnabas McManus Esq.
               
               
                  William James & Leusinda Russel
                  2-23-1820
                  2-24-1820
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Benjamin Moore & Sally Hill
                  2-28-1820
                  3-2-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  David Warren & Jane Hays
                  2-29-1820
                  3-1-1820
                  Barnabas McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Jonas Ball & Rebecca Connell
                  3-7-1820
                  3-7-1820
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
            
            INDEX OF NAMES
            
               Abernathy, Thomas, 16
               Adamson, Aaron, 6
               Adamson, Abigail, 8
               Adamson, Isaac, 9
               Adamson, Margaret, 7
               Addington, Delilah, 20
               Addington, Patty, 28
               Alberts, Anna, 16
               Alberts, Betsy, 4
               Alberts, Elizabeth, 13
               Allen, Susan, 24
               Bailey (see Baley)
               Baldridge, Samuel, 29
               Baley (Bailey?), Edith, 19
               Ball, Jonas, 30
               Barnard, George, 19
               Barnes, Jane, 11
               Beard, Jane, 24
               Beard, Martha, 26
               Beard, Rachel, 9
               Beard, Sally, 29
               Beard, Thomas, 11
               
               Beauchamp, Milcah, 14
               Beck, John, 10
               Beesly, Thomas, 18
               Beeson, James, 1
               Beeson, Mary, 17
               Beeson, Phebe, 9
               Bennet, Francis, 4
               Bennet, Margaret, 5
               Bennet, William, 24
               Bently, Tamer, 20
               Black, Catharine, 13
               Black, Susannah, 28
               Blount, John, 8
               Blount, William, 11
               Bloomfield, Robert, 19
               Bogue, Andrew W., 20
               Bond, Kesiah, 2
               Bond, Rachel, 3
               Bond, Ruth, 28
               Boon, Hannah, 8
               Boon, Meca, 21
               Boon, Polly, 11
               Boon, Sally, 1
               Boswell, Esther, 27
               Bowen, Mary, 28
               Boyd, Adam, 10
               Boyd, John, 23
               Boyd, Patsy, 11
               Boyd', Samuel, 3
               Brewer, Stephen, 23
               Briggs, Nancy, 9
               Briggs, Richard, 24
               Brockus, Polly, 17
               Brown, Joseph, 12
               Bulla, Anna, 23
               Bulla, Betsy, 14
               Bulla, Isaac, 16
               Bulla, Linna, 24
               Bunch, Richard, 29
               Bundy, Sarah, 15
               Burgess, Barbary, 23
               Burgess, Sally, 8
               Busbey, Isaac, 26
               Butler, Jacob, 16
               Butler, Samuel, 7
               Butler, Susanna, 17
               Cable (see Cobble)
               Cadwalader, Byram, 23
               Cain, Joseph, 11
               Caldwell, Sarah, 10
               Campbell, Josiah, 29
               Canaday, Jane, 21
               Canaday, Lewis L., 5
               Carnes, David, 4
               Case, John, 10
               Case, Sarah, 2
               Chalfont, Evan, 23
               Chambers, Martha, 2
               Chinault, Judith, 10
               Clark, Margaret, 19
               Clark, Phebe, 25
               Clawson, Amos, 26
               Cobb, Dixon, 29
               Cobb, Thomas, 3
               Cobble (Cable?), Susanna, 17
               Codington, Rhoda, 12
               Coffin, Hiram, 25
               Coggshall, Job, 15
               Coleman, Seth, 8
               Combs, Michael, 6
               Commons, Nathan, 26
               Conn, Anna, 8
               Connell, Rebecca, 30
               Conner, Brittain, 7
               Conner, James, 1
               Cook, James, 28
               Cook, Polly, 12
               Cooper, Samuel, 9
               Costlow, John, 17
               Cox, Harman, 14
               Cox, Martha, 14
               Cox, Moses, 16
               Craigg, Susanna, 25
               Crawford, James, 4
               Crews, Isaac, 14
               Crumb, Catherine, 11
               Crumb, Hester, 19
               Crumb, William, 28
               Cunningham, George, 12
               Dale, Lydnor, 13
               Dale, Rebekah, 12
               Davenport, Linna, 26
               Davenport, Mary, 7
               Davis, James, 12
               Davis, Margaret, 1
               Dawson, Asa, 5
               Dawson, Isaac, 15
               Dawson, Mathias, 2
               
               Dawson, Samuel, 7
               DeMoss, Polly, 26
               Dewey, Martha, 10
               Dickerson, Martha, 20
               Dobbs, Elizabeth, 30
               Dougan, Rebekah, 3
               Doughty, William M., 15
               Drake, Josiah, 20
               Drake, Moses, 22
               Draper, Joseph, 17
               Draper, Miriam, 5
               Drury, James, 17
               Drury, Samuel, 17
               Durr, William, 5
               Dwye (?), Jacob, 14
               Gay, Jane, 20
               Gay, Melinda, 6
               Gibson, John, 16
               Gillam, Letta, 12
               Gillam, Peggy, 14
               Gilliam, Polly, 4
               Gillum, Robert, 8
               Gilmon, Samuel, 28
               Goodwin, James, 3
               Gray, Hannah, 16
               Gray, James, 26
               Gray, John, 13
               Gray, William, 23
               Griffin, Rebekah, 20
               Gunn, Jane, 24
               Edwards, Polly, 6
               Elston, Rebekah, 22
               Emert, Catherine, 4
               Endsley, Andrew, 6
               Erwin, Malinda, 11
               Esteb, Dianna, 22
               Esteb, Nancy, 25
               Fall, Mary, 5
               Fall, Susannah, 16
               Farlow, Simeon, 18
               Ferguson, Samuel, 15
               Fisher, John, 25
               Fleehart (?), Martha, 4
               Ford, Rebekah, 22
               Fosset (?), William, 25
               Fouts, Levi, 6
               Fouts, Mary, 22
               Fowler, Elizabeth, 2
               Fox, Mary, 16
               Frake, Conrad, 2
               Frazer, John, 9
               Fruits, Mary, 18
               Galbraith, James, 22
               Gamel (Gamble?), Sarah, 15
               Gardner, Nancy, 9
               Garr, Fielding, 27
               Garr, Frances, 5
               Garr, Jonas, 14
               Garr, Rosa, 15
               Garret, Elizabeth, 20
               Garret, Esther, 22
               Gay, Elizabeth, 15
               Hagen, Sally, 23
               Haley (Healey?), Jesse, 15
               Hall, Joseph, 3
               Ham, Sothy, 28
               Hannah, Mary, 29
               Harden, Daniel, 8
               Harden, Solomon, 7
               Hardin, Nancy, 2
               Harlan, George, 26
               Harlan, William, 3
               Harman, Andrew, 20
               Harris, Barsheba, 15
               Harris, John, 1
               Hart, John, 8
               Harter, Jacob, 21
               Harter, Mary, 19
               Hartup, James, 18
               Harvey, Nancey, 1
               Hatfield, Rachel, 25
               Hawkins, Elizabeth, 10
               Hawkins, James, 12
               Hawkins, William, 7
               Hays, Jane, 30
               Haze (Hayes?), Lewis, 17
               Haze (Hayes?), Polly, 23
               Healey (see Haley)
               Heath, Lambeth, 11
               Heaton, Eli, 18
               Hendrix, Polly, 21
               Hiers, William, 10
               Hill, Sally, 30
               Hillis, Symms, 1
               Hodge, Mary, 24
               Hodges, Jesse, 1
               
               Holcomb, Mathew, 5
               Holloday, Catharine, 29
               Hoover, Biddy, 12
               Hoover, Emsley, 20
               Hoover, Eebekah, 3
               Hornish, Jacob D., 20
               Howell, John, 6
               Hubbell, Polly, 5
               Huchison, John, 18
               Huchison, Wilkison, 24
               Hudlow, John, 16
               Huff, John, Jr., 27
               Huff, Sally, 12
               Huffman, Betsy, 25
               Hunt, Charles, 8
               Hunt, Margaret, 26
               Hunt, Rebekah, 30
               Hunt, William, 14
               Hurst, Elinor, 17
               Hurst, Mary, 18
               Hurst, Sarah, 16
               Hurst, Thomas, 18
               Hutchins, Benjamin, 4
               Hyers, Agness, 9
               Imel, Samuel, 28
               Ingle, John, 15
               Jackson, Biddy, 17
               Jacob, Betsy, 8
               James, William, 30
               Jester, Betsy, 19
               Jobe, Sarah, 28
               Johnson, Abel, 29
               Johnson, Martha, 4
               Johnson, Mentor, 21
               Johnson, Nancy, 11
               Johnson, Nathan, 13
               Johnson, Sarah, 3
               Johnson, Seypheaney, 2
               Jones, John, 13
               Jones, Nancy, 13
               Jordan, James, 13
               Jordan, Rachel, 13
               Jorden, John, 21
               Julian, Shubal, 12
               Justice, Patrick, 6
               Justice, Sarah, 29
               Justice, William, 16
               Keesling, John, 24
               Kidwell, Sarah, 27
               Kindal, Adam, 14
               Knight, Solomon, 30
               Knott, Ephraim, 9
               Knutt (Knott?), William, 21
               Kruger, Frony, 10
               Lakin, Joseph, 26
               Lamb, Hosea, 12
               Lamb, William, 5
               Lancaster, Elizabeth, 25
               Lawman, Daniel, 6
               Lawman, Hariet, 13
               Lawson, Sarah, 21
               Lee (see See)
               Legg, Walter, 23
               Levell, Elizabeth, 27
               Leverton, Anderson, 23
               Lewallen, Shadrach, 3
               Lewis, Caleb, 26
               Lewis, Esther, 22
               Lewis, Joseph, 11
               Lewis, Martha, 3
               Lewis, Mary, 19
               Lindley, Lydia, 6, 7
               Little, John, 12
               Little, Nancy, 1
               Little, Polly, 18
               Little, Sally, 1
               Little, Sarah, 1
               Long, Jesse, 10
               Long, Matilda, 23
               Long, Poindexter, 9
               Louthane (Lothian?), Samuel, 27
               Low, Helim, 28
               Lybrook, Catherine, 9
               Lybrook, Eve, 10
               McCall, Catharine, 7
               McCarty, William, 30
               McCormack, James, 10
               McCoy, Mary, 1
               McDade, James, 21
               McGogan, Elizabeth, 2
               McGowin, Catherine, 6
               McGuire, Flora, 18
               McKinney, James, 18
               McKinny, Minty, 14
               
               McKinny, Polly, 21
               McKinny, William, 24
               McLane, George, 22
               McNeal, James, 20
               Mabbet, Mary, 21
               Mabbet, William, 22
               Madden, Solomon, 19
               Malcomb, James, 2
               Manifold, Joseph, 17
               Martin, Betsy, 23
               Martin, James, 21
               Martin, Mahala, 21
               Martindale, Margaret, 28
               Martindale, Mary, 15
               Martindale, Rachel, 11
               Mason, John, 18
               Mason, Mary, 29
               Mendenhall, Dinah, 22
               Miller, Elizabeth, 3
               Miller, Emily, 26
               Miller, Evy, 3
               Millman, Robert, 8
               Millman, Sally, 6
               Modlin, Enoch, 26
               Moffit, Catherine, 4
               Montgomery, Elizabeth, 11
               Montgomery, Nancy, 18
               Montgomery, Platt, 1
               Moore, Benjamin, 30
               Moore, Jane, 17
               Moorman, Eli, 28
               Moorman, Rebekah, 19
               Morgan, William, 19
               Murphey, Betsy, 22
               Murphy, Robert, 8
               Nelson, John, 21
               Nixon, Caleb, 19
               Noland, Daniel, 2
               Noland, Lena, 2
               Odell, Patsey, 16
               Odom, John, 14
               Ogburn (see Olson)
               Olliver, Sarah, 10
               Olson (Ogburn, Osborne?), Jonathan, 30
               Osborn, John, 16
               Osborne, Elizabeth, 15
               Osborne, Jesse, 25
               Overman, Cornelius, 22
               Overman, Ephraim, 5
               Overman; Penninah, 20
               Overman, Terry, 24
               Palmer, David, 13
               Palmer, Mary, 7
               Parkeson, Willis, 13
               Peacock, Miriam, 26
               Pearson, Ann, 29
               Pearson, Barton, 9
               Pearson, Lucinda, 30
               Pearson, Nancy, 9
               Pearson, Sally, 13
               Peck, Samuel, 9
               Pegg, Jesse, 25
               Perkins, Patsy, 10
               Peters, Catherine, 12
               Petty, Daniel, 22
               Platts, Jesse K., 11
               Platts, Sally, 5
               Porter, Barbary, 12
               Porter, David, 20
               Powel, Isabel, 7
               Powell, Thomas, 7
               Prather, Jonathan, 20
               Prevo, Dorca, 6
               Prevo, Samuel, 28
               Purviance, Tilly, 24
               Rader, Michael, 24
               Railsback, Judith, 3
               Rambo, Adonijah, 9
               Rankins, Betsy, 29
               Reed, Mary, 21
               Reed, John, 7
               Renbarger, Phillip, 30
               Reese, William, 15
               Reynolds, Charles, 26
               Richardson, Aaron, 4
               Richardson, Elenor (or Eleanor), 27
               Ridge, Hannah, 20
               Ring, Sarah, 5
               Rinker, Catherine, 24
               Ritter, Mary, 18
               Robbins, Elizabeth, 4
               Robbins, Mary, 1
               Robbins, Ruth, 19
               Roberts, Nancy, 28
               
               Roberts, Rachel, 21
               Rockafellow, Henry, 17
               Roe, Eli, 28
               Roe, Mahala, 1
               Roe, William, 15
               Royster, Robert, 2
               Rue, Henry, 27
               Russel, Leusinda, 30
               Russell, Delighty, 6
               Scott, Susanna, 23
               Scott, John, 1, 27
               Scott, Susannah, 23
               Scott, Synthia, 15
               Seany, Bryan, 1
               Seany, John, 2
               See (Lee, Sea?), John, 23
               Sellers, Nathan, 4
               Shaw, Elizabeth, 4
               Shaw, Martha, 5
               Shaw, Sally, 13
               Sheffer, Ann, 16
               Shelby, John, 24
               Shelby, Lydia, 24
               Shelby, Massy, 29
               Shelby, Susan, 29
               Shelly, Catherine, 24
               Shelly, William, 13
               Shortridge, Elisha, 19
               Shortridge, Violet, 17
               Silvers, John, 10
               Simpson, Joshua, 23
               Slater, John, 10
               Small, Rachel, 30
               Small, Samuel, 27
               Small, Sarah, 6
               Smith, Benjamin, 6
               Smith, Charles, 12
               Smith, James, 20
               Smith, Mary, 8, 14
               Smith, Rhoda, 14
               Smith, William, 10
               Snider, David, 3
               Spray, William, 22
               Springer, Matthew, 30
               Stafford, Abigail, 27
               Stanford, Amelia, 11
               Stanley, Jeremiah, 22
               Stanley, Nicy, 13
               Stanley, Thomas, 24
               Starbuck, Jane, 25
               Starbuck, Phebe, 23
               Starr, Jesse, 5,
               Stevens, William, 22
               Stout, , 19
               Strong, Nancy, 10
               Stuart, Absalom, 14
               Stubbs, Elisha, 25
               Stump, Joseph, 21
               Stump, Mary, 7
               Sullivan, Kesiah, 18
               Summers, Calvin, 27
               Summers, John, 11
               Sutherland, Isaac, 25
               Suttenfield, Sarah, 22
               Talbert, Rebecca, 27
               Taylor, , 19
               Taylor, James, 16
               Taylor, Thomas, 4
               Teagle, Joseph, 28
               Teagle, Thomas P., 3
               Tharp, Alfred, 19
               Thomas, Ella, 12
               Thomas, John, 4
               Thomas, Mary, 18
               Thomas, Molly, 28
               Thomas, Phinehas, 8
               Thomas, Priscilla, 2
               Thomas, Stephen, 19
               Thompson, Daniel, 27
               Thornbrough, Joseph, 17
               Thornton, Levi, 13
               Thrale, Leonard, 2
               Townsend, Elizabeth, 25
               Troxel, Daniel, 11
               Trusty, Temple, 29
               Turner, Paulina, 27
               Tyner, Hetty, 13
               Tyner, Patsy, 16
               Underwood, Lewis, 2
               Van Meter, Mary, 26
               Veal, Enos, 5
               Wade, John, 6
               Wade, Mary, 16
               Walker, Eliza, 20
               Walker, Samuel, 3
               
               Ward, Lavina, 3
               Warren, David, 30
               Warren, Rachel, 8
               Watson, Sally, 14
               Welsh, Susannah, 9
               West, Malinda, 17
               Whitaker, Thomas, 2
               White, Betsy, 18
               White, Charity, 9
               White, Nancy, 15
               Whiteman, William, 4
               Whitinger, Peggy, 4
               Widup, Thomas, 25
               Wilcox, James, 1
               Wiles, Thomas, 7
               Wiley, Samuel, 18
               Willets, Caleb, 26
               Willets, Elisha, 12, 29
               Willets, Polly, 26
               Willets, Robert, 29
               Williams, Ana, 30
               Williams, Benjamin, 5
               Williams, Hannah, 7
               Williams, Lemuel, 14
               Williams, Lydia, 7
               Williams, Mary, 8
               Williams, Nancy, 14
               Williams, Nathan, 7
               Williams, Polly, 27
               Williams, Sally, 6
               Willis, Jesse, 11
               Willis, Rachel, 8
               Willits, Sally, 26
               Wilson, Joshua, 17
               Wilson, Robert, 9
               Wood, Benjamin, 21
               Woods, James, 29
               Woodward, Lydia, 25
               Wright, Susanna, 23
               Wyatt, Joseph, 25
               Wymer, Henry, 15
               , Dolly, 5
            
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            
               Philip D. Jordan is a professor of history at Miami University, 
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  .
               Louis B. Ewbank is a lawyer and author of 
                            Indianapolis
                         who served on the Circuit Court, 1914-1920, and on the Supreme Court of Indiana,
                        1920-1927.
               Burton D. Myers is dean emeritus of the School of Medicine at Indiana University.
               Christopher B. Coleman was secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and director of the
                        Indiana Historical Bureau.
               J. Herman Schauinger is an assistant professor of American history and social studies at
                        Gannon College, Erie, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
               Robert H. Irrmann is a teaching assistant in the Department of History at Indiana University.
               Oscar O. Winther is an assistant professor of history at Indiana University.
               Mrs. Irene M. Strieby is librarian for Eli Lilly & Company and a member of the
                        Genealogy Committee of the Indiana Historical Society.
            
         
      
   
