
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 77, Issue 4, pages 305-419. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:77+issue:4+year:1981&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Three Gilded Age Suburbs of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        Irvington
                    , Brightwood, and Woodruff Place
            
                    Timothy J. Sehr
                    ∗
                
            The growth of cities was one of the most important developments in late-nineteenth-century America.
                    Between the Civil War and 1900 the 
                        United States
                     moved much closer to becoming an urban nation. Recently historians have begun to
                    examine the process of urban growth and its effects on American society, particularly through
                    studies that employ statistical methods in an attempt to capture the experiences of the anonymous
                    people who made up the vast majority of the population. The methodology and the conclusions reached
                    with it have been both exciting and fruitful.1 At times, however, the so-called
                    new urban history has exaggerated the atomistic quality of city life. Studies of ethnic groups, for
                    instance, indicate that new urban residents sought to create communities within the cities in an
                    effort to provide order in their lives—something the new urban historians frequently
                        overlook.2 Some of these historians also seem to forget that many Americans
                    continued to live in small towns rather than in large cities. Investigation of life in those towns
                    has lagged behind studies of life in the cities.3
            
            
               
                  ∗ Timothy J. Sehr is with the University Archives at Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . He acknowledges the assistance of Robert G. Barrows and David Bodenhamer in
                        preparing this article.
               
                  1 Examples of the new urban history include Stephen Thernstrom, Poverty and Progress: Social Mobility in a Nineteenth Century City (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1964) and The Other Bostonians: Poverty and Progress in the
                            American Metropolis, 1880–1970 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1973); Howard P. Chudacoff, Mobile Americans: Residential and
                            Social Mobility in Omaha 1880–1920 (
                            New York
                        , 1972); and Peter R. Knights, The Plain People of 
                                Boston
                            , 1830–1860: A Study in City Growth (
                            New York
                        , 1971).
               
                  2 See, for example, Humbert S. Nelli, Italians in 
                                Chicago
                             1880–1930: A Study in Ethnic Mobility (
                            New York
                        , 1970); Moses Rischin, The Promised City: 
                                New York
                            's Jews, 1870–1914 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1962); Josef J. Barton, Peasants and Strangers: Italians,
                            Rumanians, and Slovaks in an American City, 1890–1950 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1975).
               
                  3 See Page Smith, As a City upon a Hill: The Town in American
                            History (
                            New York
                        , 1966); Lewis Atherton, Main Street on the Middle Border (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1954).
            
            
            Perhaps one way to correct these oversights is to pay more attention to suburbs. Suburbanization is
                    not only a post-World War II phenomenon; it has been occurring for over a century. Moreover, as
                    historian Kenneth T. Jackson has persuasively argued, urban growth was both demographic and
                    geographic: American cities expanded in population partly because they expanded their boundaries to
                    include communities on their outskirts. In Jackson's words, "If annexation (the
                    addition of unincorporated land to the city) or consolidation (the absorption of one municipal
                    government by another, usually adjacent) had not taken place, there would now be no great cities in
                    the 
                        United States
                     in the political sense of the term." The ability of cities to absorb towns on
                    what Jackson calls "the crabgrass frontier" was essential to the growth of cities
                    in the nineteenth century.4
            
            In addition to augmenting urban growth, suburbs also contributed to the increasing social and
                    economic differentiation occurring within the cities. As cities grew, segregation of the population
                    by income level increased; people of roughly equal wealth began to live in homogeneous communities.
                    In addition, the economic use of urban space became more differentiated. Rather than having a
                    mixture of industries and residences, or even factories and stores, in the same small area, each
                    type of economic enterprise began to develop within separate parts of the city. Eventually zoning
                    was developed to plan and order the use of urban space, but initially some business concerns chose
                    to move away from the central city voluntarily in search of more land on which to build larger
                    facilities. Both the sorting out of the urban population by income level and the differentiation of
                    urban space by economic use were reflected in the growth of the crabgrass frontier.5
            
            
               
                  4 Kenneth T. Jackson, "Metropolitan Government Versus Suburban
                        Autonomy: Politics on the Crabgrass Frontier," in Kenneth T. Jackson and Stanley K.
                        Schultz, eds., Cities in American History (
                            New York
                        , 1972), 442–62; quotation is on 444–46. See also Kenneth T.
                        Jackson, "The Crabgrass Frontier: 150 Years of Suburban Growth in America," in
                        Raymond A. Mohl and James F. Richardson, eds., The Urban Experience: Themes in
                            American History (Belmont, Cal., 1973), 196–221; and Kenneth T. Jackson,
                        "Urban Deconcentration in the Nineteenth Century: A Statistical Inquiry," in
                        Leo F. Schnore, ed., The New Urban History: Quantitative Explorations by American
                            Historians (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1975), 110–42.
               
                  5 David R. Goldfield and Blaine A. Brownell, Urban America:
                            From Downtown to No Town (
                            Boston
                        , 1979), 202–205, 217–20, 225–28; see also their
                        discussion of urban ecology on pages 9–13. Jackson, "The Crabgrass
                        Frontier," 201–202, 209–10.
            
            
            Many communities maintained their original socioeconomic characteristics after they were incorporated
                    into the larger cities, with the once independent towns becoming identifiable and distinctive
                    neighborhoods. Certainly not all developments on the crabgrass frontier were successful: some became
                    merely failed real estate ventures. But in some suburban developments like-minded people sought to
                    build specific kinds of communities, often trying to recapture what they believed to be the virtues
                    of small town life. Suburban founders with such visions often succeeded in building towns that
                    remained distinctive long after their annexation by growing cities.6
            
            The ability of groups to create distinctive communities and the consequent socioeconomic segregation
                    of urban space can be explored by examining three Gilded Age suburbs of 
                  Indianapolis. Irvington
               , Brightwood, and Woodruff Place indicate the variety of ideas
                    that motivated suburban development and the types of men involved. The early histories of these
                    towns also reveal the problems founders confronted and how they tried to overcome them. In short, an
                    examination of these three suburbs of 
                        Indianapolis
                     illustrates how various parts of cities obtained differing characters due to the
                    choices made by individuals when those areas were first laid out.
            
               
                        Irvington
                    , Brightwood, and Woodruff Place were platted and incorporated between 1870 and 1876,
                    and all were located east of the city. Each town had an identifiable group of founders, and each
                    developed a character expressive of the founders' intentions. Despite the Panic of 1873 and
                    the ensuing depression, these towns became the kinds of communities envisioned by the town fathers. 
                        Irvington
                     grew to be a middle-class university town; Brightwood evolved into a working-class
                    industrial suburb; and Woodruff Place developed into an upper-class residential park. The
                    differences among the groups of founders, the initial plans for the towns, and their early
                    institutions and residents combined to make these three suburbs distinctive.
            Jacob Julian and Sylvester Johnson, the founders of 
                        Irvington
                    , purchased 320 acres of farmland lying about four miles east of Governors (later
                    Monument) Circle, the center of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in 1870. In November of that year they divided 304 acres into 109 lots of varying
                        sizes.7 At the time both men 
                  
                     6 On the motives for founding suburbs see Peter J. Schmitt, Back to Nature: The Arcadian Myth in Urban America (
                                New York
                            , 1969).
                  
                     7 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I,
               
                    
                    
                  THE FOUNDERS
                            OF IRVINGTON, JACOB JULIAN (LEFT) AND SYLVESTER JOHNSON
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indiana Division Picture Collection.
               
                     were prominent residents of 
                        Centerville
                    , Indiana. Julian was president of the First National Bank of 
                        Centerville
                    , a former 
                        Wayne County
                     prosecuting attorney, and a one-time member of the state legislature. Johnson had
                    served as 
                        Wayne County
                     auditor since 1863. Apparently because of a bitter struggle over the relocation of the
                    county seat, the position of neither man was very secure. Once the supporters of 
                        Richmond
                     won the fight over the relocation of the county courthouse, the prospects of Julian and
                    Johnson in 
                        Centerville
                     declined. The development of 
                        Irvington
                     offered a means to rebuild their fortunes and to live in a community that reflected
                    their personal tastes.8
            
            Both men moved to the suburb in 1872 after having fine brick houses built and became active in
                    community affairs; they sold lots, took part in the successful incorporation drive of 1873, and then
                    served as town officers. Julian was a trustee of the town from 1873 until May, 1877, while Johnson
                    served as town treasurer for many years after 1873 and also was a member of the school board. Both
                    men promoted improvements in the town. Julian, for example, built several houses to sell to new
                    residents, and Johnson was among the organizers of the 
                        Irvington
                    , Stratford, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Street Railroad in 1875. Julian moved into 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1878 or 1879 in order to further his legal career, but Johnson remained in the
                    suburb until his death, which occurred well after the turn of the century.9
            
            Six individuals who made the first additions to 
                        Irvington
                     were, like Julian and Johnson, professional men who lived in the town and took part in
                    community activities. Only one of these individuals, Nicholas Ohmer, was primarily a businessmen
                        
                  434–38; B. R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 620–22; Gertrude Winders, A Glimpse of 
                                    Irvington
                                 Then and Now, 1870–1970 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1970), 7; "The Beginnings of 
                                Irvington
                             from Notes by Sylvester Johnson," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, IV (March, 1908), 88–89.
                  
                     8 On Julian, see A Biographical History of Eminent and
                                Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), I, "The Seventh Congressional District,"
                            109–11; William H. English Collection, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . On Johnson, Jacob P. Dunn, Memorial and Genealogical Record of
                                Representative Citizens of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912), 84–88; George Irving Reed, ed., Encyclopedia of
                                Biography of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1899), II, 72–74. See Grace Julian Clarke, George W.
                                Julian (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XI, Indiana Biographical
                                Series, Vol. I; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 359–60, on the struggle over the location of the county
                            seat.
                  
                     9 Information on city officers comes from Minutes of the Board of
                            Trustees of the Town of 
                                Irvington
                            , Office of the City Clerk, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and notices of elections in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 19, May 12, 1873; May 5, 1874; May 2, 1876; May 8, 1877;
                            May 7, 1878; May 6, 1879; and May 4, 1880. On Julian's building houses see ibid., November 10, 1874, and April 10, 1875. On the organization of the
                            street railroad company see ibid., February 1, 1875.
               
                    
                    
                  THE IRVINGTON HOME
                            OF SYLVESTER JOHNSON
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indiana Division Picture Collection.
                and he was the only one who did not live in the suburb, although he built a house there.
                    Three of the six held elective town offices, while most of them made some investment in the town
                    above their initial purchases. In brief, the town fathers saw 
                        Irvington
                     as a place for them to live and not only as a business investment.10
            
            The occupations and motives of the founders of Brightwood were quite different. Clement A. Greenleaf,
                    John L. Mothershead, William D. Wiles, and Daniel H. Wiles signed the original plat of Brightwood in
                    September, 1872.11 The first two were manufacturers, the latter pair merchants.
                    Of the four men, Greenleaf probably supplied the initial inspiration for the development. He had
                    invented a turntable to rotate railroad cars and engines and organized a series of companies to
                    manufacture 
                  
                     10 The six were Levi Ritter, John W. Chambers, Joseph M. Tilford,
                            William M. Thrasher, James E. Downey, and Nicholas Ohmer. Information regarding these men
                            came from Cline & McHaffie, The Peoples Guide: A Business, Political
                                and Religious Directory of 
                                    Marion
                                 Co., Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1874); John H.B. Nowland, Sketches of Prominent Citizens of
                            1876 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1877); 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 3, June 19, 1873; April 11, 1874; and February 1, 1875;
                            and the annual 
                                Indianapolis city
                             directories which were published by various firms under several titles during
                            the 1870s.
                  
                     11 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 438.
               
                    
                    
                  THE ORIGINAL JACOB
                                JULIAN HOUSE
                            IN IRVINGTON
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indiana Division Picture Collection.
                this device and other machinery.12 The last of Greenleafs companies
                    led to the founding of Brightwood.
            In August, 1872, Greenleaf organized a company "to bring capital and labor
                    together." The charter of the Greenleaf Manufacturing Company allowed employees to buy
                    stock in the firm. Greenleaf hoped that the prospect of sharing in the profits would give the
                    workers an incentive to be more productive. Of the original thirty-five stockholders, at least nine
                    were company employees, despite the requirement that initial buyers invest one thousand dollars. In
                    March, 1873, when amended articles of association were drawn up, there were seventy-six
                    shareholders, of whom thirteen were company employees and several were skilled workers for other
                        firms.13
            
            Apparently, from the beginning Greenleaf and his partners envisioned the company as the cornerstone
                    of a new town. A 
                  
                     12
                            Pictorial and Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                 Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893), 315–16.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 27, August 24, 1872; and January 20, 1874. Both the original
                            and amended Articles of Association for the Greenleaf Manufacturing Company can be found in
                            the Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Biographical data on the stockholders came from the city directories.
               
                     month after its organization the company decided to build its
                    shops three miles northeast of the center of 
                        Indianapolis
                     along the tracks of the 
                  Cleveland,
                            Columbus, Cincinnati
                & 
                        Indianapolis
                     (CCC&I or Bee Line) Railroad. One week after they announced this decision,
                    Greenleaf and the others filed a plat for Brightwood.14 Perhaps Greenleaf
                    dreamed of building some type of model industrial community; his concern for helping workers improve
                    their condition suggests this possibility.15 If there were such an intention,
                    however, it was a casualty of the economic depression that began in 1873. The Panic drove Greenleaf
                    into bankruptcy, and his company went out of business.16 Eventually the Bee Line
                    bought the company's buildings, which saved the town, but neither the railroad nor the
                    other three men who platted Brightwood had the interest in workingmen that Greenleaf had
                    demonstrated.
            Greenleaf s misfortune left Mothershead and brothers William and Daniel Wiles in control of
                    developing Brightwood. Although none of them lived in the town during the 1870s, all three still
                    owned property there in 1880, and all three contributed to the town's growth.17 Mothershead was particularly active. In 1872 he organized Mothershead & Morris,
                    a stove foundry, which became Mothershead, Morris & Company in 1875; Brightwood was the site
                    of the foundry until 1882. Mothershead also invested in the town's Higgins Bentwood School
                    Furniture Company, acted as real estate broker for the Brightwood property owners, and played a role
                    in the effort to get the CCC&I shops moved to the suburb.18 William and
                    Daniel Wiles were partners in a wholesale grocery business until 1875, when Daniel left the firm to
                    become manager of the Brightwood Real Estate Company. By 1880 he had formed Wiles and Wiles Company
                    with William M. Wiles, again becoming a wholesale grocer. William D. Wiles remained in the wholesale
                    grocery business after 1875 in the firm of Wiles, Coffin & Company. Both brothers were
                    active in the unsuccessful attempt to have Northwestern Christian University locate 
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 13, 20, 1872.
                  
                     15
                            Pictorial and Biographical Memoirs, 316.
                  
                     16 On Greenleaf s financial troubles, see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, October 20, 23, 24, November 19, December 1, 19, 26, 1873;
                            September 9, 1874.
                  
                     17 Residency was determined by use of the city directories; land
                            ownership was revealed by the Tax Duplicate for Brightwood, 1880 (
                                Indianapolis City
                             Archives, City-County Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     18 Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 278–79, 467; Manufacturing and Mercantile
                                Resources of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana (n.p., 1883), 450; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, December 2, 1872, and May 18, 1874; Articles of Association of
                            the Higgins Bentwood School Furniture Company (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on
                            Public Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     in Brightwood, and both invested in the Higgins Furniture
                        Company.19
            
            In 1874 the Wiles brothers and Mothershead signed an amended plat of Brightwood with thirty-four
                        others.20 It is striking how few of these individuals lived in the suburb at
                    any time during the 1870s. Of the thirty-seven signers of the plat of 1874, only four definitely
                    lived there before 1880. Most of them did retain property there, however; the tax list for 1880
                    includes the names of twenty-four of the thirty-seven persons who signed the plat of 1874. Unlike 
                        Irvington
                    , Brightwood was developed by absentee landlords. The occupations of thirty-two of the
                    signers can be determined. Railroads employed one third of the total (eleven of thirty-two), and of
                    that number the CCC&I employed seven. Six men worked for Wiles Brothers & Company.
                    In addition, there were four wholesale grocers, two manufacturers (a brass founder and Mothershead),
                    three teachers, two publishers, a restaurant owner, a real estate agent, and a lawyer. Railroad
                    employees, merchants, and manufacturers played key roles in the founding of Brightwood but not in
                    the creation of 
                        Irvington
                    .
            The Brightwood founders were not dreamers so much as hard-headed businessmen. Brightwood was a
                    convenient (and, it was hoped, profitable) place to locate factories and house workers. It was not a
                    company town, because there were several companies there and houses were individually owned.21 Unfortunately, the absence of the early town records prevents learning how
                    frequently the absentee owners intervened in town affairs. Without these records and other material,
                    it cannot be determined if there was any motive directing development other than the obvious one of
                    making money.
            No similar problem exists in the case of Woodruff Place; one can identify a dream and a dreamer for
                    that suburb. James O. Woodruff, a civil engineer, came from 
                  Auburn, New York
               , to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1870 to build the city's first waterworks. He remained to attempt what one
                    contemporary newspaper called 
                  
                     19 Nowland, Sketches of Prominent Citizens, 350, on
                            William D. Wiles. Additional information was derived from the city directories and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, December 2, 1872, and July 16, 1873.
                  
                     20 The amended plat is on file in the Office of the 
                                Marion County
                             Recorder (City-County Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); conclusions about the signers are based on information from the city
                            directories.
                  
                     21 For a description of a company town, see Stanley Buder, Pullman: An Experiment in Industrial Order and Community Planning,
                                1880–1930 (
                                New York
                            , 1967).
               
                     "the Most Brilliant Real Estate Venture in the History of the
                    City." In 1873 Woodruff purchased eighty acres of land a mile and a half east of the center
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     for about $220,000 and then borrowed almost as much money in order to
                    develop the area in an extravagant fashion. He envisioned an exclusive suburb bounded by a fence and
                    decorated with a number of fountains and statues.22 Until he went bankrupt in
                    early 1875, work on the area proceeded swiftly; after he filed for bankruptcy, development slowed
                        markedly.23
            
            Woodruff was able to enjoy his creation for only a short time. He built a house there in 1874 and
                    lived in it the following two years. In 1876 Woodruff led the successful effort to incorporate the
                    area even though it then had only six voters.24 His declining economic fortunes
                    forced him to move from Woodruff Place in 1877, and by the next year he had left 
                        Indianapolis
                     for 
                        New York
                    . He died in 1879 at the age of thirty-nine in the midst of planning an ambitious
                    scientific expedition. Woodruff did not stay in the suburb very long, but he continued to influence
                    its development indirectly. His original plans were followed by those who came to control the land.
            The three groups of founders were distinctly different from each other. The 
                        Irvington
                     town fathers were professional men who were ready to live in and direct the growth of
                    their suburb. The Brightwood town fathers represented businessmen who saw the potential profit in
                    suburban development but were not interested in building a town in which they would live. Woodruff
                    wanted to build an upper-class enclave that would testify by its very appearance to the wealth of
                    its inhabitants. These intentions and desires are suggested by the occupations and residential
                    preferences of the founders. They are also revealed by the plans for the towns and by their major
                    institutions.
            The plat of 
                        Irvington
                     is the most distinctive and revealing of the three. Instead of using the common grid
                    pattern, Julian and Johnson drew in curving streets that conformed to the contours of the land, an
                    idea appropriated from the 
                        Cincinnati
                     suburb of Glendale, 
                        Ohio
                    . The desire to save as many trees as possible and to leave existing brooks undisturbed
                    influenced 
                  
                     22 Nowland, Sketches of Prominent Citizens, 384; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 5, 7, 1879. The quotation is from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 31, 1873, which describes Woodruffs plans. A more extensive
                            description is in the Real Estate Gazette, [July] 1873, which can be found
                            in the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     23 See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, October 12, 1872; January 10, March 14, 29, July 21, 28, 1873;
                            August 4, September 7, and October 1, 1874.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., April 27, 1874, and September 18, 1876.
               
                    
                    
                  THE ENTRANCE
                            TO WOODRUFF PLACE
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society.
               
                    
                    
                  THE CENTER FOUNTAIN,
                                WOODRUFF PLACE
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indiana Division Picture Collection.
                the street plan as well. The design itself emphasized beauty and grace over efficient use
                    of the land. A second noticeable feature of the plat was the size of the lots. All but a very few
                    lots were over an acre in area, and most were over two acres. The size and consequent price of the
                    lots limited the potential market for them, and it was not long before subdividing took place.
                    Julian and Johnson subdivided forty-two lots between the two sets of railroad tracks in the southern
                    part of the town into 182 lots in 1873; John W. Chambers subdivided the area north of College (now
                    Audubon) Circle into 250 lots in 1872 and 1873; and Levi Ritter and James Downey redrew the
                    boundaries of other lots in subsequent years. Whether this subdividing was a concession to necessity
                    or whether the large lots had been considered temporary from the beginning cannot be determined. A
                    third obvious feature of the plat was the provision for two circular areas near the center of the
                    town. The northern circle was "designed for the use of a Female College" and the
                    southern one was "dedicated to the use and purpose of a public park" which would
                    have a statue of 
                        Washington
                    
                     Irving as its main decoration. From the first there was a
                    concern for education and comfort.25
            
            While the plat of 
                        Irvington
                     stressed grace and beauty, the accompanying covenant emphasized purpose and dedication.
                    Julian and Johnson proposed to "exclude from the town everything vicious or
                    offensive" through the inclusion of stipulations in all deeds to property in 
                        Irvington
                    . Each buyer agreed not to allow "any distillery brewery soap factory Pork or
                    slaughter house or any other establishment offensive to the people" to be built on his
                    property. And no "stable hog pen privy or other offensive building Stall or shed"
                    could be constructed within one hundred feet of any avenue. Finally, the purchaser guaranteed that
                    he would "not sell or suffer any one to sell … any intoxicating beverages except
                    for sacramental medicinal or mechanical purposes strictly." Julian and Johnson promised to
                    abide by these same restrictions on any lots that they kept.26
            
            By these stipulations Julian and Johnson did more than merely exclude anything "vicious or
                    offensive"; they bound the buyers into a community. The owners accepted the
                    founders' vision of a sober, beautiful, sweet-smelling town. They promised not only to obey
                    the restrictions themselves but also to enforce them against others. The deeds explicitly stated
                    that "the right to compel an enforcement of these conditions" rested not with
                    Julian and Johnson but rather "in all property holders and inhabitants of the
                    town." Merely by buying property in 
                        Irvington
                    , indeed merely by choosing to live there, one assumed a responsibility to maintain the
                    character of the town. One participated in the dream of Julian and Johnson, a dream that was not
                    Utopian and perhaps at this distance not very inspiring. 
                        Irvington
                     was simply to be a suburb in which the upper middle class could live comfortably.
            
               
                  25 The plats are on file in the Office of the 
                            Marion County
                         Recorder; the original covenant of 
                            Irvington
                         designates the purposes of the circles. See also Vida T. Cottman, "A
                        Historical Sketch of 
                            Irvington
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, VII (December,
                        1911), 149–50. For similar plans in other suburbs, see John W. Reps, The
                            Making of Urban America: A History of City Planning in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1965), 339–48.
               
                  26 These restrictive clauses appear in the original covenant of 
                            Irvington
                        , Office of the 
                            Marion County
                         Recorder. Parts of the covenant are inaccurately reprinted in Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , I, 434. A survey of the early deeds to lots in 
                            Irvington
                         on file in the Office of the 
                            Marion County
                         Recorder confirms that the restrictions were written into them. The idea of
                        inserting restrictions was copied from 
                            Colorado
                         Springs, 
                            Colorado
                        ; see "The Beginnings of 
                            Irvington
                        ," 88.
            
            
            By and large 
                        Irvington
                     fulfilled the desires of Julian and Johnson in the 1870s, and, given the high
                    percentage of other founders who lived there, 
                        Irvington
                     met their demands as well. Such an achievement was not a foregone conclusion,
                    especially with the beginning of the depression in 1873. The economic crisis threatened the survival
                    of all new real estate ventures and the prosperity of all who invested in them.27 For the founders of 
                        Irvington
                     the town's survival depended on the continued development of the area and a
                    transportation link with 
                        Indianapolis
                    . One major improvement internally was the construction and maintenance of roads. At
                    meeting after meeting, the Board of Trustees accepted petitions regarding streets, ordered the
                    grading and graveling of streets, and arranged to pay contractors for work done on streets.28 A second concern was education; few people would buy lots in the town if
                    their children had no school to attend. Perhaps more importantly, the town fathers would not have
                    wanted to attract individuals who were not concerned about education. In 1873 and 1874 the town
                    issued school bonds totaling $25,000 and built a brick schoolhouse. Enough of the
                    residents took an interest in the conduct of the school that the town split into factions over the
                    firing of a teacher in 1877. The fate of the school bonds reflected the economic problems of the
                    suburb, because in 1879 "the greatly reduced valuation of the property, both real and
                    personal" in the town prevented it from meeting its obligations. New bonds bearing a lower
                    rate of interest had to be issued.29 After 1873 the investors and residents of 
                        Irvington
                     spent money in order to attract new residents, but they had only moderate success.
            Additional investment was made in a street railway. Without reliable and frequent transportation
                    service people could not work or shop in 
                        Indianapolis
                     while living in the suburb. The two railroads that passed through 
                        Irvington
                     offered only infrequent service. In February, 1875, several leading men of the town
                    organized the 
                        Irvington
                    , Stratford, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Street Railroad company, and by July tracks were laid to the outskirts of 
                        Irvington
                    . Service began in October but had to be suspended in late November because of the poor
                    condition of the tracks. In 1876 the property owners in 
                        Irvington
                     invested 
                  
                     27 Jacob Julian, for example, was forced to file for bankruptcy; see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 5, 1876.
                  
                     28 Minutes of the Board of Trustees of the Town of 
                                Irvington
                            , passim.
                  
                  
                     29 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 435–36; Minutes of the Board of Trustees of the Town of 
                                Irvington
                            , July 10, 1879, cites declining property values.
               
                     more money in the line, and by May cars were again carrying
                    passengers to and from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There continued to be difficulties, but after the fall of 1876 regular service
                    apparently was maintained.30 The willingness of the 
                        Irvington
                     men to invest in the street railroad revealed both the need for the service and their
                    commitment to the town.
            Improved roads, a school, and a street railway were necessary to maintain the aura of 
                        Irvington
                     as a good place to live; however, they could not provide an economic center for the
                    town. The suburb needed a major institution to ensure its survival. Julian and Johnson suggested
                    that a college would conform to the town's purposes by reserving land for one on the
                    original plat. The residents of 
                        Irvington
                     lacked the wealth to begin a new college during the depression, but when an existing
                    college considered moving from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the town fathers acted quickly to take advantage of the opportunity. In June, 1873,
                    the directors of Northwestern Christian University decided to move the institution from its location
                    on the north side of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , because the college land had become more valuable as an endowment than as a campus.
                    Representatives from a development west of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , men from Brightwood, and a group from 
                        Irvington
                     all offered inducements to the college. On July 24, 1873, the university accepted the 
                        Irvington
                     offer of about $150,000 and twenty-five acres of land. Construction of
                    buildings began shortly thereafter, and the school opened the 1875–1876 academic year in
                    the town. In 1877 the college was renamed 
                        Butler
                     University in honor of one of its founders.31
            
            The school was not the female college for which Julian and Johnson had reserved the northern circle,
                    which the university did not receive, but it fit into the larger purposes of the town. The faculty
                    and students would add to the "cultivated and intelligent society" that 
                        Irvington
                    's residents desired.32 The beliefs of the Christian
                    Church, which sponsored the college, mirrored those of the town fathers. For example, university
                    rules prohibited the use of intoxicating beverages on university property as well as
                    "profanity, the desecration of the Lord's Day, all kinds of gaming, even for
                    amusement, and whatever is inconsistent with good order, good taste and good morals."33 The 
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 1, July 5, 16, August 3, November 2, 30, 1875; January
                            5, April 1, 15, May 13, 22, June 19, and September 16, 1876.
                  
                     31 The attempt to attract the college can be followed in ibid., June 18, 24, July 8, 9, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 24, and 25, 1873.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., June 24, 1873.
                  
                     33
                            The Annual Catalogue of 
                                    Butler
                                 University, 
                                    Irvington
                                , Ind., for the Twenty-Seventh Session, 1881-'82 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1882), 51.
               
                     deed prohibition of anything "vicious or
                    offensive" was effectively the same as the prohibition of anything "inconsistent
                    with good order, good taste and good morals." Thus, the university was a fitting addition
                    to the town. Moreover, it provided a source of employment and acted as a magnet to attract new
                        residents.34
            
            The plat and major institutions of Brightwood contrasted sharply with those of 
                        Irvington
                    . Absent from the Brightwood plat were the curving streets so prominent in 
                        Irvington
                    . The Brightwood plat is a good example of the grid pattern that efficiently uses the
                    land. In Brightwood the average lot size above Sutherland Street was 150 feet by 200 feet, a far cry
                    from the one-and two-acre lots in 
                        Irvington
                    . In Elijah Fletcher's first addition south of Sutherland the average lot was
                    seventy-five feet by two hundred feet. After the area north of Sutherland was subdivided in 1874,
                    the average lot had a frontage of 37.5 feet while the addition of alleys reduced the depth of the
                    average lot to 185 feet. In short, the lots in Brightwood were initially smaller than those in 
                        Irvington
                    , and they were made even smaller in a short time.35
            
            The other interesting features of the Brightwood plat are the absences of any restrictions on
                    building and of any provisions for amenities. There were no restrictions written into the deeds or
                    mortgages limiting the buyer's freedom to build whatever and wherever he wished on the
                    property he purchased. Nor was there any language tying the owners or residents into a community to
                    enforce certain stipulations. Furthermore, neither the original plat nor the amended one designated
                    any lots for schools, churches, or parks. Only in Sheldon and Bennett Morris's Oak Hill
                    addition was there any provision for a public park. That park was the only major deviation from the
                    original pattern in the various additions in which lots averaged about 50 feet by 135.5 feet and
                    were laid out in a grid pattern. Deeds to lots in the additions lacked any restrictions on the
                    freedom of the buyers. In other words, the additions complemented rather than changed the design of
                    Brightwood.
            When the founders platted Brightwood they thought that its economic future was secure. The Greenleaf
                    Manufacturing 
                  
                     34 The economic usefulness of the university is suggested by
                            advertisements in the Indianaplis Journal, August 20 and November 25,
                            1873. That the school did not solve the economic problems of the town is evident in Cottman,
                            "A Historical Sketch," 152–54.
                  
                     35 The original and amended plats are on file in the Office of the 
                                Marion County
                             Recorder. On the grid pattern, see Reps, The Making of Urban
                                America, 294–314.
               
                     Company would build its shops there, as would Mothershead
                    & Morris, Higgins Bentwood Furniture Company, and several other manufacturing firms. Still
                    other factories were located close by. Transportation to and from 
                        Indianapolis
                     would be provided by the Bee Line, which promised to double-track its roadbed and
                    institute half-hourly service.36 The Panic of 1873 deflated these high
                    expectations. Greenleaf and his company failed; the stove foundry and the furniture company also had
                    financial problems. The attempt to attract Northwestern Christian University to the town and the
                    subdivision of lots suggest the magnitude of the difficulties facing the suburb and its owners. The
                    town needed a major business concern around which it could grow.
            The town found its salvation when the CCC&I Railroad moved its shops to Brightwood. It became
                    the major institution of the suburb, much as the university was in 
                        Irvington
                    . And the railroad shops fit the original design of the town, which would remain a
                    manufacturing suburb. The decision to move the shops to the town seems to have been due to two
                    factors: the part men connected with the railroad had played in the early history of the town and
                    the willingness of owners of land in Brightwood to offer inducements to the railroad when the
                    opportunity arose.
            Seven men employed by the Bee Line were among the thirty-seven persons who signed the amended plat in
                    1874. It is not clear why these men became interested in Brightwood. None of them owned shares in
                    the Greenleaf Manufacturing Company. C. C. Gale, division superintendent of the railroad, did own
                    such stock, but he did not sign the plat. Possibly these Bee Line employees bought property in
                    Brightwood after a fire in March, 1874, destroyed the CCC&I shops in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Soon after the fire there were rumors that the railroad would rebuild its facilities
                    in the suburb, and the railroad apparently bought substantial parcels of land there.37 However, it is possible that initially the Bee Line intended merely to build a
                    switching yard in the town because it was located where the CCC&I would junction with the
                    proposed Belt Railroad that was to circumvent the city. For whatever reasons, employees of the Bee
                    Line took an early interest in Brightwood, and their involvement helped to attract the
                    company's shops to the town.
            
               
                  36 On the expectation that the factories would insure the
                        suburb's success see advertisements for Brightwood lots in the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, October 10, 14, 22, November 1, 14, 1872; January 20, February 14,
                        July 10, and August 11. 1873.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., March 16 and May 9, 1874.
            
            
            The move of the shops was not automatic; the company expected the property owners of Brightwood to
                    offer it a sizable portion of land. Most of the owners were excited about the prospect of the shops
                    locating in their town. Mothershead believed that such facilities would cause five hundred mechanics
                    to move to Brightwood, making it a town of two thousand persons very quickly. Referring to the
                    unsuccessful effort to attract Northwestern Christian University to the town, Mothershead argued
                    that the shops would be "worth more than forty universities."38 Because not all of the Brightwood owners thought that a donation of land was necessary to
                    induce the Bee Line to move its shops to the suburb, negotiations dragged on until March, 1875, when
                    the railroad accepted a half-mile stretch of land adjacent to its tracks. The land included the
                    buildings of the Greenleaf Manufacturing Company, which the Bee Line converted to its own uses. The
                    CCC&I promised to build other extensive facilities as well.39
            
            The Bee Line proceeded to construct "the best arranged and most substantial railroad yards
                    and machine-shops in the country." The works were completed in March, 1877, and became the
                    economic center of Brightwood.40 In 1880 the town assessed the CCC&I
                    property at $120,000, about one half of the town's total assessed valuation.
                    Mothershead's foundry, a wagon maker, a producer of lightning rods, and a church organ
                    manufacturer also operated in the town in 1880, but they were overshadowed as employers and as
                    taxpayers by the Bee Line.41 Although the shops failed to boost the
                    town's population as much as Mothershead had predicted, they provided employment and
                    attracted individuals and investment to Brightwood.42 In addition, the
                    railroad's facilities maintained the character of the town as a suburb for factories and
                    the men who worked in them.
            Woodruff Place differed from both Brightwood and 
                        Irvington
                     in design and purpose. Woodruff used the grid pattern to lay out his land, but the
                    dimensions he chose varied from those used in the other two towns. The main streets in both
                    Brightwood and 
                        Irvington
                     were fifty-two feet wide while those in Woodruff Place had a width of eighty-two feet.
                    The lots on Woodruffs plat were smaller than those on the original 
                  
                     38
                     Ibid., May 12, 1874.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., May 14, 20, June 5, 20, 1874; March 6, 1875.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., April 16, 1877, includes a long description of the facilities.
                  
                     41 Tax Duplicate for Brightwood, 1880, 
                                Indianapolis City
                             Archives.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, August 27 and December 4, 1877.
               
                     Brightwood plat, but the lots in Woodruff Place were not
                    subdivided. The average lot remained 80 feet by 170 feet and first sold for $6500. The
                    usual price for a lot in Brightwood before subdivision took place was $1000, and in 
                        Irvington
                     it was slightly less than $1000.43
            
            The covenant of Woodruff Place contained three significant provisions. First, Woodruff reserved a
                    two-foot strip of land on the north, east, and south sides for a fence. He planned to enclose the
                    entire eighty acres and mark it off from the city. From the beginning Woodruff wanted his
                    development to be separate, if not independent. Second, the covenant stipulated that the streets and
                    alleys were not "dedicated to public use, but only designated as such for the private use
                    of such persons as may become owners of the several Lots in this Plat." This provision
                    reinforced the exclusionary idea first suggested by the fence. Third, the strip for the fence and
                    the streets and alleys were "to be held as the private property of the owners of the
                    several Lots in the said Woodruff Place, collectively, and [were] to be perpetually held for the use
                    and benefit of the said owners, as streets, alleys, and location for fences, and not
                    otherwise." This requirement bound the property owners into a community, much as the
                    provisions in the 
                        Irvington
                     deeds did in that town. Those who purchased lots in Woodruff Place assumed a
                    responsibility to maintain the collectively owned land.44
            
            Surprisingly, Woodruff included only one other stipulation in his deeds. He prohibited the erection
                    of any fence or other structure within twenty-five feet of the streets, a restriction that would
                    tend to make the area seem more open and more like a park. Apparently Woodruff had confidence that
                    those who built in his suburb would have enough good taste not to erect anything "vicious
                    or offensive." The first residents may have agreed to additional restrictions on building.
                    A newspaper article celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the town reported that there were
                    stringent building rules from the beginning and that the town government specifically prohibited the
                    keeping of cows and chickens.45
            
            
               
                  43 The plat for Woodruff Place is on file in the Office of the 
                            Marion County
                         Recorder. The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 31, 1873, provides information on the price of lots in the town;
                        the averages in Brightwood and 
                            Irvington
                         were determined through the mortgages on file in the Office of the 
                            Marion County
                         Recorder.
               
                  44 These are provisions on the original plat.
               
                  45
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 5, 1926. See also Craig Beardsley, "Woodruff Place:
                        Proud Past, Uncertain Future," 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        , IX (August, 1972), 52.
            
            
            
            
            
               PLAT MAPS
                        OF IRVINGTON (OPPOSITE PAGE), WOODRUFF PLACE, AND
                            BRIGHTWOOD (LEFT), ALL DRAWN
                        FROM ORIGINAL PLATS
               
               Courtesy of Author.
            
            
            The nature of Woodruff Place solved some problems common to suburban developments while it left
                    others nearly un-solvable. Because only the well-to-do could afford to live in the area and because
                    it was closer to the center of 
                        Indianapolis
                     than either 
                        Irvington
                     or Brightwood, concern over transportation was limited. Residents probably could afford
                    to own carriages to take them into the city. Education was a more difficult problem because there
                    was no room for schools within Woodruff Place itself. The only available public schools were in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and after incorporation in 1876 the town made arrangements to pay tuition to send
                    children from Woodruff Place to city schools. The suburb also contracted with the city for fire
                        protection.46
            
            Woodruff Place's dependence on 
                        Indianapolis
                     for schools and fire protection underscored the absence of large institutions in the
                    town. From the start it was meant to be a residential suburb without businesses that might employ
                    the residents. The suburb could not have survived without 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which soon surrounded it. As 
                        Indianapolis
                     prospered, so did 
                  THE WOODRUFF HOUSE,
                                WOODRUFF PLACE
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indiana Division Picture Collection.
               
                    
                  
                     46 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 439; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 17 and September 18, 1876.
               
                    
                    
                  A WOODRUFF PLACE STREET SCENE, SHOWING
                            THE OPEN SPACE
                            AND STATUARY
                            FOR WHICH
                            THE SUBURB WAS KNOWN
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indiana Division Picturp Collection.
                Woodruff Place. The relationship between the suburb and the city is indicated by the
                    pattern of population growth of the town. During the 1870s, when depression gripped 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Woodruff Place grew slowly; it had only twenty inhabitants in 1880. As business
                    improved in the 1880s and into the 1890s and the city grew, the population of Woodruff Place
                    increased as well. By 1890 it had grown to 161 persons and ten years later reached 477. Certainly
                    the development of Brightwood and 
                        Irvington
                     also depended on the general economic state of the county and city. However, they had
                    institutions that helped them to grow even during the depression. In 1880 Brightwood had 679
                    residents while 
                        Irvington
                     had 652.47
            
            Despite the slow growth of the town's population and the bankruptcy of James Woodruff, the
                    residents of Woodruff Place 
                  
                     47 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 439; Census Office, Department of the Interior, Compendium of the Eleventh Census: 1890, Part I: Population (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1892), 137. The factories spurred population more than the university;
                            in 1890 Brightwood had a population of 1,387 while 
                                Irvington
                            's population was only 650. Although the 
                                United States
                             entered a depression in 1893, 
                                Indianapolis
                             grew throughout the decade; see Robert G. Barrows, "A Demographic
                            Analysis of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870–1920" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History,
                            Indiana University, 1977), 27–32.
               
                     in 1900 lived in a town that conformed to the
                    founder's original dream. Woodruff planned that thirty feet in the center of each of the
                    three main avenues would be decorated with statuary, fountains, shade trees, and other
                    ornamentation. In 1873 he purchased a number of statues from a firm in 
                        New York
                    ; many of the statues were of mythical figures, some of which were partially undraped
                    and caused comment in the city.48 During the 1870s these statues and fountains
                    suffered from neglect and attacks by vandals, and a compromise had to be made on the projected stone
                    fences on the north and south sides of the area.49 Nevertheless, in 1900 and
                    long afterward, Woodruff Place boasted of its nine major fountains, stone fence, and numerous
                    statues. The maintenance of the basic design testifies to its appeal. Woodruffs dream had a
                    lavishness and gaudiness typical of the Gilded Age and had an allure in an era in which wealth was
                    celebrated and flaunted. What sustained Woodruff Place through hard times was not a large
                    institution but rather the snobbish desire to evidence one's wealth in physical display.
            
               Table I: Occupations of Males over Age 16 in Brightwood and 
                            Irvington
                        , 1880, and in Woodruff Place, 1900
               
                  
                  Brightwood
                  
                            
                                Irvington
                            
                        
                  Woodruff Place
               
               
                  Occupational Category
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
               
               
                  Skilled Workers
                  137
                  63
                  20
                  12
                  8
                  6
               
               
                  Unskilled Workers
                  45
                  21
                  47
                  27
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Servants
                  0
                  0
                  6
                  4
                  5
                  4
               
               
                  Professional/Business
                  8
                  4
                  38
                  22
                  96
                  70
               
               
                  White Collar
                  5
                  2
                  10
                  6
                  12
                  9
               
               
                  Students
                  3
                  1
                  19
                  11
                  4
                  3
               
               
                  Farmers
                  10
                  5
                  13
                  8
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Unknown
                  8
                  4
                  18
                  11
                  12
                  9
               
               
                  Total∗
                  
                  216
                  100
                  171
                  101
                  138
                  102
               
            
            
               
                  Sources: U.S., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Marion County
                        , 1880 (Enumeration Districts 100, 105); U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules
                        for 
                            Marion County
                        , 1900 (Enumeration District 187).
               
                  ∗Some percentage totals will not equal 100 because of
                    rounding.
            
            The occupations of the founders and the early plans and institutions of the three towns point to
                    their differing characters (Table I). The occupations, nativity, and race of the residents of 
                        Irvington
                     and Brightwood in 1880 underlined these differences and the success of the founders in
                    attracting the kinds of people they desired. Brightwood's character as a manufacturing
                    suburb is confirmed by the occupational breakdown of its male population. Of 216 males over sixteen
                    years of age 
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 14, 29, June 21, 1873.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., October 1, 1874; August 28, 1875; and August 16, 1877.
               
                     listed in the 1880 federal census, 137 were skilled workers. If
                    one excludes the eight men whose occupations could not be determined, nearly two thirds of the men
                    were skilled workers. Carpenters formed the largest single group (thirty-three), followed by
                    machinists (eighteen). Thirty-six men were skilled railroad employees—engineers, firemen,
                    conductors, and brakemen. Unskilled workers constituted the next largest category: forty-five of the
                    216 men gave "laborer" as their occupation. It is likely that most of the skilled
                    and unskilled men were employees of the CCC&I. Only three men listed in the census held
                    managerial positions, and all three of them worked for the Bee Line. A grocer, a minister, a
                    physician, a millwright, and a druggist completed the professional and business class of the suburb.
                    Five men held white-collar clerical jobs, while three others were students. Ten were farmers and
                    dairymen.
            In 
                        Irvington
                     the occupational structure was quite different. Only twenty of the 171 
                        Irvington
                     males over sixteen years of age were skilled workers. Five of these men listed
                    themselves also as laborers, suggesting either that they were not yet master craftsmen or that there
                    was not enough work available in 
                        Irvington
                     for them to be craftsmen exclusively. Forty-seven men were unskilled laborers, a
                    surprisingly high number possibly explained by the farms within the town and by the amount of
                    housing and road construction taking place. The biggest difference between the two suburbs was in
                    the number of professionals and businessmen; thirty-eight men in 
                        Irvington
                     fit into this category. Twelve were teachers, while there were four clergymen, four
                    grocers, four lawyers, and four physicians. Ten men held white-collar jobs, most as clerks, and
                    nineteen were students. Thirteen farmers still worked their fields in 
                        Irvington
                    . Lastly, a new category—servants—appeared among the 
                        Irvington
                     men. The presence of six servants marks the importance of the upper middle class in the
                    suburb. The number of teachers and students emphasizes the role of 
                        Butler
                     University, a role made more obvious when one adds the fifteen female students and one
                    female professor listed in the census. Still, the university had an enrollment of over 150, which
                    leaves many students unaccounted for. Either they were overlooked by the enumerators or many
                    students commuted from 
                        Indianapolis
                    .50
            
            
               
                  50 The inclusion of individuals who are listed as living in the two
                        suburbs in the 1880 city directory, but who are not listed in the census, changes no
                        occupational category by more than two percentage points in either town.
            
            
            
               Table II: Nativity and Race of Males over Age 16 in Brightwood and 
                            Irvington
                        , 1880, and in Woodruff Place, 1900
               
                  
                  Brightwood
                  
                            
                                Irvington
                            
                        
                  Woodruff Place
               
               
                  Nativity
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
               
               
                  Native Born
                  123
                  57
                  153
                  89
                  102
                  74
               
               
                  First Generation
                  34
                  16
                  8
                  5
                  24
                  17
               
               
                  Foreign Born
                  59
                  27
                  10
                  6
                  12
                  9
               
               
                  Total
                  216
                  100
                  171
                  100
                  138
                  100
               
               
                  White
                  207
                  96
                  153
                  89
                  133
                  96
               
               
                  Black
                  9
                  4
                  18
                  11
                  5
                  4
               
               
                  Total
                  216
                  100
                  171
                  100
                  138
                  100
               
            
            
               
                  Sources: U.S., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Marion County
                        , 1880 (Enumeration Districts 100, 105); U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules
                        for 
                            Marion County
                        , 1900 (Enumeration District 187).
            
            The differences among these towns appear again when their ethnic and racial compositions are examined
                    (Table II). Fifty-nine of the 216 men in Brightwood were foreign born while thirty-four others were
                    first-generation Americans, having at least one parent who was born outside of the 
                        United States
                    . In 
                        Irvington
                     only ten men were foreign born and only eight were first generation. In both cases
                    almost all of the foreign born came from 
                        Ireland
                    , a German state, Great Britain, or a British colony. The number of Irish and German
                    immigrants in Brightwood helps to explain the appearance of a Catholic mission there in 1881. In
                    contrast, 
                        Irvington
                     did not have a Catholic church until after 1900.51 In racial terms
                    a reversal of proportions occurs; there were more blacks in 
                        Irvington
                     than in Brightwood. The eighteen blacks in 
                        Irvington
                    , all of whom were servants or laborers, equaled the number of foreign-born and
                    first-generation Americans there. Most of the nine blacks in Brightwood worked on farms. Apparently
                    blacks were not welcomed into the shops in Brightwood, while the 
                        Irvington
                     residents were willing to hire blacks, but only in menial positions.52
            
            The census of 1880 listed only ten men over sixteen years of age living in Woodruff Place. Of the
                    ten, five held managerial or white-collar clerical positions; one was a carpenter; two 
                  
                     51 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 619, 620–21.
                  
                     52 By comparison, 86 percent of the total population of 
                                Marion County
                             was native born or first generation and 14 percent was foreign born in 1880.
                            Ninety-two percent of the county's population was white and 8 percent was black.
                            Computed from data in Compendium of the Eleventh Census, I, 16,
                        484.
               
                     were laborers; one was the town marshal; and one listed no
                    occupation. All but two of the men were native born. The one black male was a hired laborer who
                    doubled as a servant. These figures are too small to make meaningful comparisons with the other two
                    suburbs. Data from the next available census (1900), although separated from the figures for
                    Brightwood and 
                        Irvington
                     by twenty years, confirm that Woodruff Place developed much as its founder had hoped.
                    Men involved in business constituted the largest proportion of residents in Woodruff Place at the
                    turn of the century. Few men who worked with their hands lived in the suburb. Over 60 percent of the
                    heads of households owned their own houses and over 50 percent of those households employed at least
                    one servant.53 The town did not have as socially distinguished a population as
                    Woodruff might have wished, but it was certainly an upper-middle-class town with strong ties to the
                    business community of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            By 1900, and probably earlier, Woodruff Place had a distinctive character both in the social
                    attributes of its residents and in its physical appearance. Well before 1900 Brightwood and 
                        Irvington
                     in their own ways were socially and physically distinctive; one was a working-class
                    industrial town while the other was a middle-class university suburb. In each of the three cases the
                    character of the suburb reflected its founders and their aims. None of the founders was a Utopian
                    thinker; their dreams were mundane and basically materialistic. Nevertheless, the ordinariness of
                    their visions should not obscure the crucial points that in late-nineteenth-century America certain
                    kinds of dreams could be fulfilled and that towns were sometimes the results of conscious decisions.
                    Some communities were purposeful creations of identifiable men who deserve to be recalled if urban
                    growth is to be understood. 
                        Irvington
                    , Brightwood, and Woodruff Place, which were founded within a narrow time span and
                    limited geographic region, illustrate how varied the backgrounds and purposes of the founders of
                    suburbs could be and how different the towns themselves could become.54
            
            
               
                  53 Computed from data in U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Marion County
                        , 1900 (Enumeration District 187).
               
                  54 Studies of other late-nineteenth-century suburbs similar to 
                            Irvington
                         and Woodruff Place are Harry G. Schalck, "Planning Roland Park,
                        1891–1910," 
                     
                                Maryland
                             Historical Magazine, LXVII (Winter, 1972), 419–28; and Robert
                        W. Heidrich, "A Village in a Park: Riverside, '
                            Illinois
                        ," Historic Preservation, XXV (April-June, 1973),
                        28–33.
            
            
            Finally, the development of these three towns calls into question some generalizations about
                    suburbanization. At least in 
                        Indianapolis
                     the founding of suburbs did not depend on the invention of the electric streetcar.
                    Unquestionably the trolley made it easier for people to move farther away from the central cities
                    and still commute to work downtown. But other transportation means existing in the 1870s allowed
                    development of the urban periphery before Frank Sprague introduced the trolley in 1888.55 The history of Brightwood demonstrates that not all suburbs were for the
                    middle and upper classes. As industry expanded in the late nineteenth century it sometimes moved to
                    the crabgrass frontier, and around it arose working-class suburbs. The spatial relationship between
                    the suburbs and 
                        Indianapolis
                     indicates that the separation of urban residents into homegeneous economic zones was
                    not a simple linear one. Woodruff Place, the most exclusive of the three suburbs, was closest to
                    downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    , not the most distant. However, the annexation of the suburbs to the city corresponded
                    to the economic standing of the suburbanites: Brightwood had the briefest independent history,
                    followed by 
                        Irvington
                     and then by Woodruff Place.56
            
            
               
                  55 Charles N. Glaab and A. Theodore 
                            Brown
                        , A History of Urban America (
                            New York
                        , 1967), 154–59, and Sam B. Warner, Jr., Streetcar Suburbs:
                            The Process of Growth in 
                                Boston
                            , 1870–1900 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1962) seem to overemphasize the centrality of the trolley to suburban
                        growth and ignore the role of industry.
               
                  56 Jackson, "Metropolitan Government,"
                        454–55, makes the point about social class and consolidation. Brightwood was added to 
                            Indianapolis
                         in 1897; 
                            Irvington
                         joined the city in 1902; Woodruff Place was added in 1962.
            
         
         
         
            Mexican Immigrant Experience in the Urban Midwest: East 
                        Chicago
                    , Indiana, 1919–1945
            
                    Francisco Arturo Rosales
                
            
                    Daniel T. Simon
                    ∗
                
            Most theories and models in Chicano history have been based on the experiences of Mexican Americans
                    in the Southwest. Perhaps the most enduring interpretation in this field was set forth in the 1940s
                    by Carey McWilliams, who argued that the annexation of Mexico's northern provinces in 1848
                    reduced the indigenous people of this area to a colonized status. Furthermore, the McWilliams thesis
                    relegated the large number of Mexican immigrants to the 
                        United States
                     after 1848 to the same subordinate status because Mexican institutions, attitudes, and
                    relations with other ethnic groups were molded by the establishment of 
                        United States
                     political rule. With the recent revival in the study of Mexicans in the 
                        United States
                     many scholars have echoed the colonization thesis, while others have criticized it and
                    put forth alternative theories describing Mexican settlement in the 
                        United States
                    .1 This debate, however, remains centered on the Southwest and is of
                    limited usefulness to the study of the Mexican colonies that emerged in midwestern industrial
                    cities. Because they came to an area where there was no indigenous Mexican population the experience
                    of Mexican immigrants to the Midwest resembles in many ways the experience of European immigrants to
                    urban America, although it also retains some of the unique features of general Mexican immigration
                    to the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               
                  ∗ Francisco Arturo Resales is Assistant Professor of History at 
                            Arizona
                         State University. Daniel T. Simon is Instructor of Accounting at Loyola University, 
                            Chicago
                        .
               
                  1 For example, Carey McWilliams, North From Mexico: The
                            Spanish-Speaking People of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1949); Rodolfo Acuña, Occupied America: The
                            Chicane's Struggle Toward Liberation (
                            San Francisco
                        , 1972); Juan Gómez-Quiñones, "Toward a Perspective
                        on Chicano History," Aztlán, II (Fall, 1971),
                        1–49; David J. Weber, ed., Foreigners in their Native Land: Historical
                            Roots of the Mexican Americans (Albuquerque, 1973). For an opposing view see Arthur F.
                        Corwin, "Mexican-American History: An Assessment," Pacific
                            Historical Review, XLII (August, 1973), 269–308.
            
            
            A close study of the emergence of the Mexican colonia
               2 in the
                    highly industrialized city of East 
                        Chicago
                    , Indiana, is suggestive for the Chicano experience generally in the Midwest. While
                    detailed studies are not available for every midwestern city to which large numbers of Mexicans
                    immigrated, available sources suggest that the broad outlines of development found in East 
                        Chicago
                     were similar in 
                  Chicago, Detroit
               , Gary, and other cities.3
                    The first twenty-five years of the East 
                        Chicago
                    
                    colonia included the historical experience of the old mexicano
                    group, those who came to the area before or during the 1920s; the termination of the study at 1945
                    is based on the recognition of that point as the end of an era for the old mexicano communities of the urban Midwest, since subsequent migration of Puerto Ricans and
                    southwestern Chicanes greatly altered the social and cultural composition of the colonias.
            
            East 
                        Chicago
                    , Indiana, lies on the southern shore of Lake Michigan, a few miles
                    east of 
                        Chicago
                    . By the late nineteenth century the area was the site of a variety of industries,
                    including steel foundries and an oil tank works. The extension of railroads into the area enhanced
                    its natural potential for industrial development and induced the Inland Steel Company and the
                    Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company to build large plants in East 
                        Chicago
                    .4 From the beginning heavy industry's need for an
                    expanding labor force was met by an influx of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe. Most
                    numerous were the 
                  
                     2 The Mexican community in 
                                United States
                             cities, not a defined neighborhood.
                  
                     3 Among the studies of Mexican communities in the Midwest are three
                            articles by Norman D. Humphrey, "The Migration and Settlement of 
                                Detroit
                             Mexicans," Economic Geography, XIX (July, 1943),
                            358–61, "The 
                                Detroit
                             Mexican Immigrant and Naturalization," Social
                            Forces, XXII (March, 1944), 332–35, and "Mexican Repatriation from 
                                Michigan
                            : Public Assistance in Historical Perspective," Social
                                Service Review, XV (September, 1941), 497–513; Neil Betten and Raymond
                            A. Mohl, "From Discrimination to Repatriation: Mexican Life in Gary, Indiana,
                            During the Great Depression," Pacific Historical Review, XLII
                            (August, 1973), 370–88; Mark Reisler, "The Mexican Immigrant in the 
                                Chicago
                             Area during the 1920's," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, LXVI (Summer, 1973), 144–58;
                            "‘Little Mexico’ in Northern Cities," The World's Work, XLVIII (September, 1924), 466; Anita Edgar Jones,
                            "Mexican Colonies in 
                                Chicago
                            ," Social Service Review, II (December, 1928),
                            579–97; Aztlán, VII (Summer, 1976), is devoted to
                            contemporary and historical issues in midwestern communities; Louise Año Nuevo
                            Kerr, "Mexican 
                                Chicago
                            : Chicano Assimilation Aborted, 1939–1954," in Melvin G.
                            Holli and Peter d'A. Jones, eds., The Ethnic Frontier: Essays in the
                                History of Group Survival in 
                                    Chicago
                                 and the Midwest (Grand Rapids, Mich., 1977), 293–328.
                  
                     4 Powell A. Moore, The Calumet Region: Indiana's
                                Last Frontier (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1959), 216–56; Indiana Writers' Project, The
                                Calumet Region Historical Guide (Gary, Ind., 1939), 213–26.
               
                     Poles, who constituted about one quarter of the city's
                    population; there also were many Serbs, Croats, Slovaks, Rumanians, Italians, Hungarians, and
                    Lithuanians. By 1920 over 80 percent of East 
                        Chicago
                    's population was foreign born or of foreign-born parentage.5 Most immigrants worked in the steel mills and other industries under harsh conditions at low
                    wages. In steel, for example, the twelve-hour day and the seven-day week prevailed until the early
                    1920s. Such conditions made native and immigrant workers receptive to the union organizing efforts
                    which culminated in the great steel strike of September, 1919.6
            
            Prior to the steel strike Mexicans accounted for only a small proportion of East 
                        Chicago
                    's labor force. Some were employed by railroads operating in the area, and in
                    1918 approximately ninety worked for the Inland Steel Company. During the 1919 strike Inland
                    recruited several hundred Mexicans to replace striking workers, housing and feeding them within the
                    plant gates. After the collapse of the strike many Mexicans continued to work at Inland, although
                    their numbers decreased during the recession of 1921. With recovery, the company embarked upon a
                    large expansion program; at the same time the steel industry's abandonment of the
                    twelve-hour day compounded the need for new workers. Because of the curtailment of European
                    immigration and the satisfactory experience with Mexican labor during and after the strike, Inland
                    made extensive efforts to recruit Mexicans locally employed on railroads and from states as far away
                    as 
                  Kansas, Texas
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Between 1919 and 1925, some 3,600 Mexicans were hired; the highest level of Mexican
                    employment at any time was in 1926, when some 2,526 Mexicans worked at Inland. Throughout the 1920s,
                    approximately 30 percent of Inland's seven thousand employees were Mexican, making the firm
                    the nation's largest employer of Mexican labor. By the mid-1920s the Youngstown Sheet and
                    Tube Company also employed several hundred Mexicans at its East 
                        Chicago
                     plant.7
            
            
               
                  5 Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce, Fourteenth
                            Census of the 
                                United States
                             Taken in the Year 1920, volume III: Population, 1920 (
                            Washington
                        , 1923), 297; Moore, Calumet Region, 344–99; Indiana
                        Baptist Convention, The Foreign Problem in Northwest Indiana (n.p., n.d.),
                        2–15.
               
                  6 Moore, Calumet Region, 496–524.
               
                  7
                        
                            Hammond
                        
                        
                     
                                Lake County
                             Times, October 22, 1919; Personnel Data Cards, Employment Office, Inland
                        Steel Company, East 
                            Chicago
                        , Indiana; "Inland Steel Co. and the Shorter Work Day," The Iron Age, CXII (August 9, 1923), 333; "Easier Labor Conditions
                        Help at 
                            Chicago
                        ," ibid., CXII (September 20, 1923), 773; Paul S. Taylor,
                            Mexican Labor in the 
                                United States
                            : 
                                Chicago
                             and the Calumet Region (University of 
                                California
                             Publications in Economics, Vol. VII, No. 2; Berkeley, 1932),
                        36–37, 117, 182; David Brody, Steelworkers in America: The Nonunion
                        Era (
                            New York
                        , 1960), 254–55.
            
            
            The steel mills became the focal points around which the Mexican community grew. At first Mexican
                    workers lived in company-operated bunkhouses, but they soon found lodgings outside the plant along
                    the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad tracks on Block and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     avenues and immediately adjacent to the mill entrance on 
                        Michigan
                     and Watling streets. By 1930, some 5,300 Mexicans were concentrated in this area.
                    Although none of East 
                        Chicago
                    's neighborhoods were completely populated by any single ethnic group, distinct
                    residential patterns existed. For example, there were areas of several city blocks in which most of
                    the residents were Poles; other sections were populated almost entirely by old-stock native
                    Americans; and blacks were concentrated in particular neighborhoods. Other ethnic groups lived in
                    distinguishable parts of the city, although not to such an extent that they could be considered
                    solid enclaves. Mexicanos were distinctly concentrated in one area, although they
                    shared it with other groups, primarily the Rumanians.8
            
            Life for the Mexicans who first arrived was grim. Throughout the 1920s the ratio of Mexican men to
                    women was heavily weighted against the solos (single men). Approximately seventy
                    percent of the mexicanos hired by Inland Steel between 1919 and 1925 were single
                    or had left their wives in Mexico, 
                        Texas
                    , or one of the other stops they had made before arriving in East 
                        Chicago
                    .9 Since most regarded their stay in East 
                        Chicago
                     as temporary they were satisfied with maintaining their families far from the icy
                    shores of Lake Michigan. The loneliness due to the absence of women and
                    families was compounded by the radical change of environment. The cold winters of the Calumet Region
                    required considerable adjustment for people used to the temperate climate of west central Mexico.
                    Regular Mexican food was not readily available to the early immigrants, and although merchants
                    imported some essentials of the Mexican cuisine, a great deal of improvising was necessary. For
                    example, wheat flour tortillas replaced the familiar maized-based product because American corn was
                    not suitable to prepare this staple. A pleasant surprise was the discovery that nopales, an 
                  
                     8 Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce, Fifteenth
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                 Taken in the Year 1930, volume III: Population, part
                            1 (
                                Washington
                            , 1932), 720; residential patterns based on map plotting of approximately 2,000
                            addresses of Mexicans and other ethnic groups obtained from employment records, city
                            directories, newspapers, church records, and interviews.
                  
                     9 Personnel Data Cards, Inland Steel Company.
               
                     edible cactus common to Mexico, grew wild in the nearby Indiana
                        dunes.10
            
            Because of the preponderance of single men and the constant influx of new arrivals the area in which
                    the colonia was located took on the atmosphere of a frontier town. Speakeasies and
                    bars in private homes, serving bootleg or home-brewed liquor, sprang up along the west end of Block
                    and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     avenues. Houses of prostitution were numerous, providing one outlet for the many
                    frustrations of the mexicanos. Some two dozen Mexican poolrooms provided another
                    diversion for single men in the early years of the colonia. Violence was the
                    natural result of such an environment. Fistfights, shootings, and knifings were common occurrences.
                    For the most part violence in the colonia was an intra-group phenomenon, often
                    based on feuds which had their origins in Mexico. Immigrants from Michoacan, for example, continued
                    feuds that had begun in remote mountain villages thousands of miles to the south.11
            
            There were, of course, more socially acceptable diversions. One was the cinema, which in its silent
                    era transcended language barriers. Many mexicanos patronized the city's
                    several theaters, although they were segregated in some of them. It was also possible to take a
                    train or bus into nearby South 
                        Chicago
                     or Gary, where similar Mexican colonias, centered around steel
                    plants, were rapidly growing. The transportation system facilitated travel along the shore of
                        Lake Michigan and allowed for a great deal of interaction between the
                    several colonias in the 
                        Chicago
                     area.
            If the social environment provided little direction and few familiar points of reference for Mexican
                    immigrants, their jobs imposed a rigid structure to which they had never been exposed. In Mexico the
                    exploitive hacienda system and agricultural village life had been based on regular
                    and natural rhythms. Each peasant went to work at the same time each day and slept at night.
                    Celebrations and religious festivals provided scant relief from the monotony of the
                    peasant's meager existence, but on these occasions everyone participated as all economic
                    activity ceased. The patron, however authoritarian, was a visible man who
                    personally assigned tasks and dispensed 
                  
                     10 Numerous interviews including those with José Anguiano,
                            Sister Cordelia Marie Bahl, Consuelo Figueroa, Basil Pacheco, Hilario Silva,
                            Martín Blanco, and Concepción González.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid.; of forty-four arrests of Mexicans reported in the East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News in 1925, thirty-one involved alcohol, prostitution, or
                            concealed weapons; all of five serious crimes of violence were intragroup incidents.
               
                     rewards. Patterns of life in industrial East 
                        Chicago
                     contrasted radically. Long hours, strict timetables, and assignment to unfamiliar and
                    unpleasant tasks became the basis for the reordering of life. Days off might be scattered throughout
                    the week and a man might be scheduled to work any of three shifts in a constantly changing pattern;
                    the familiar time structure based on night and day, Sundays and feast days, became irrelevant. In
                    contrast to the visible structure of authority in Mexico, an impersonal hierarchy of bosses existed,
                    with the Mexican worker's contact restricted to his immediate foreman. Insecurity became a
                    constant element in a worker's life: a pink slip attached to his paycheck might at any time
                    communicate the message that his labor was no longer needed. The patterns of life focused around
                    steel production schedules meant a standard of living and a variety of experiences unknown to the
                    peasant in Mexico; they also brought a radical departure from the security and order of the hacienda where generations of one family had lived, worked, and died.12 The contrast was nearly as great for Mexicans who came from urban centers,
                    for few cities in Mexico could compare to the 
                        Chicago
                     area in industrialization.
            Some of the harsher aspects of life in the colonia were mollified by growth and
                    adjustment in the late 1920s. Many of the men sent for their families and others for brides. With
                    families came girls of marriageable age, who, although guarded jealously by their parents, presented
                    potential matches and aroused intense competition. For the first time significant numbers of
                    educated and middle-class Mexicans arrived, partly as a result of the Cristero Counterrevolution
                    centered in Jalisco and Guanajuato. Respectable family men were no longer satisfied with the social
                    and cultural life of the colonia, which had evolved to serve the needs of a
                    society of single men. To meet the need for more sophisticated forms of cultural and social
                    activity, as well as to provide burial insurance and other benefits to members, a number of mutual
                    aid societies developed. By 1929, eleven such Mexican organizations, the most important of 
                  
                     12 The problems of adjustment for Mexican immigrants were quite
                            similar to those of Europeans as described in Oscar Handlin, The Uprooted: The
                                Epic Story of the Great Migrations That Made the American People (
                                Boston
                            , 1951); see also Manuel Gamio, Mexican Immigration to the 
                                    United States
                                : A Study of Human Migration and Adjustment (
                                Chicago
                            , 1930) and The Mexican Immigrant: His Life-Story (
                                Chicago
                            , 1931); Herbert G. Gutman in Work, Culture and Society in
                                Industrializing America (
                                New York
                            , 1976) describes a similar adaptation process.
               
                    
                    
                  MEMBERS
                            OF ONE
                            OF
                            THE MEXICAN COMMUNITY'S
                                MANY MUTUAL AID SOCIETIES
                  
                  Courtesy Father Timothy Hunt. East 
                                Chicago
                            .
                which were the Comisión Honorífica Mexicana, the Sociedad Mutualista
                    Benito Juárez, El Círculo de Obreros Católicos, and La Sociedad
                    Cuauhtémoc, were among the several hundred ethnic associations in East 
                        Chicago
                    .13
            
            The Obreros Católicos, formed in 1925, became the most prestigious mutual aid society. It
                    concerned itself with maintaining a high degree of Mexican cultural awareness, as well as promoting
                    Catholicism and love for the patria (Mexico). The Obreros organized a fund-raising
                    drive to build a Catholic church to serve the colonia, a necessity in a city where
                    an ethnic group of any considerable size had its separate parish church. The Obreros also attempted
                    to combat the efforts of Baptist missionaries, who had succeeded in converting a substantial number
                    of mexicanos and many members of other traditionally Catholic immigrant groups.
                    From 1925 to 1930 the Obreros published a weekly newspaper, El Amigo del Hogar,
                    devoted to religion, literature, and news of events in Mexico. Indicative of the elite nature of the
                    Obreros was their theater 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Spencer
                             Leitman, "Exile and Union in Indiana Harbor: Los Obreros
                            Católicos ‘San Jose’ and El Amigo del
                            Hogar, 1925–1930," Revista
                            Chicano-Riqueña, II (Winter, 1974), 50–57; Francisco A. Resales,
                            "Mexicanos in Indiana Harbor During the 1920s: From Prosperity to
                            Depression," ibid., V (Fall, 1976), 81–91.
               
                     group, El Cuadro Dramático, which each year
                    presented several plays. The director, a former professional actor from Mexico City, often staged
                    plays that were still being performed in the Mexican capital. Further indicative of the cultural
                    sophistication of the colonia's elite was an exhibition of original works
                    by artist Alfaro Siquieros at a time when he was achieving international fame. More regularly, the
                    Obreros held poetry readings, cello concerts, and similar events which could compare favorably with
                    upper-middle-class functions in Mexico.14
            
            The activities of other mutual aid societies were directed toward a large segment of the colonia. The Cuauhtémoc, for example, according to a founder, was composed of
                    "rustic illiterates," while the Obreros represented the "cream of
                    society." Events staged by other groups, such as bazaars, dances, and Mexican-style
                    vaudeville, had wide appeal to mexicanos. The organization of baseball teams and
                    the building of a baseball park with night lights provided one of the most popular forms of
                    recreation. During the summer months games attracted as many as three thousand spectators. Mexicano teams achieved a semi-professional status, recruiting players from as far
                    away as 
                        Texas
                    . The most elaborate cultural event, and one which involved all levels of mexicano society, was the celebration each September of Mexican Independence Day. The
                    elaborate two-day festival featured parades, dances, carnivals, and the election of a festival
                    queen. Although some of the cultural activities of the mutual aid societies were restricted to an
                    elite, their net effect was felt throughout the colonia. By the end of the 1920s a
                    rich, varied, and intensely Mexican cultural and social life flourished, reinforcing traditional
                    values and reminding the mexicanos that their residence in East 
                        Chicago
                     was only temporary.15
            
            In spite of the rich social and cultural life, the colonia remained politically and
                    economically weak. Wages of Mexican industrial workers provided the economic foundation of the colonia. Hourly rates of Mexican steelworkers ranged from forty to 
                  
                     14
                            El Amigo del Hogar, May 2, 16, 1926; May 15, July 10, 24, 1927; October 7,
                            1928; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, January 8, 29, 1926; Mary Helen Rogers, "The Role
                            of Our Lady of Guadalupe Parish in the Adjustment of the Mexican Community to Life in the
                            Indiana Harbor Area" (M.A. thesis, School of Social Work, Loyola University, 1952),
                            14–34; Nicolas Kanellos, "Mexican Community Theatre in a Midwestern
                            City," Latin American Theatre Review, VII (Fall, 1973),
                            43–48.
                  
                     15
                            El Amigo del Hogar, June 12, July 10, 1927; April 8, 1928; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, September 18, 1925; interviews with Consuelo Figueroa,
                            José Anguiano.
               
                     fifty cents, and in periods of full employment a worker could
                    earn as much as thirty-five dollars a week, a vast improvement over the subsistence standard of
                    living prevalent in Mexico. However, even during the prosperous 1920s temporary layoffs were
                    frequent, offsetting periods of high earnings.16
            
            Virtually all Mexican families rented their living quarters; as late as 1930 only thirteen of East 
                        Chicago
                    's 934 Mexican families owned homes. While rents paid by Mexican families
                    averaged perhaps only thirty dollars a month, living conditions were poor as families crowded into
                    damp basements, shacks behind larger homes, or one-or two-room apartments. Overcrowding was
                    aggravated by the economic necessity of taking in boarders and the need to accommodate recently
                    arrived relatives. Almost 40 percent of East 
                        Chicago
                    's mexicano families had one or more boarders living with
                        them.17 Housing for single men was worse than that for families. In some
                    cases two or three men, assigned to different work shifts, shared the same room and bed. In 1926 a
                    social worker found seventy-five Mexican men living in a basement with a ceiling so low one could
                    not stand.18 In the same year the city's police chief made a survey of
                    housing conditions on Block and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     avenues in the core of the colonia: "We went into places
                    where we could hardly get the door open. Sometimes there would be three beds in one little room, and
                    in one place we found 11 Mexicans sleeping."19 In part these dismal
                    conditions resulted from the inability of housing construction to keep pace with the city's
                    rapid population growth; but in part they were a result of the informal but distinct pattern of
                    residential segregation that prevented Mexicans from renting in most areas in the city. Movement was
                    possible into an area a few blocks south of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad tracks along Main, Deodar, and Elm streets, and it was here that many of the
                    more affluent members of the colonia lived by 1930. Housing was less crowded than
                    in the core of the colonia, and it represented a distinct improvement for those
                    able to afford the move.20
            
            
               
                  16 Taylor, Mexican Labor in the Calumet Region,
                        77–80; El Amigo del Hogar, March 13, 1927.
               
                  17 Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce, Fifteenth
                            Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1930-Population: Special Report on Foreign-Born White Families by Country of
                            Birth of Head … (
                            Washington
                        , 1933), 211, 213, 217.
               
                  18 Taylor, Mexican Labor in the Calumet Region,
                        185–86.
               
                  19 East 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Calumet News, February 5, 1926.
               
                  20 Interviews with Vincent Soto, Miguel Arredondo, Consuelo Figueroa;
                        addresses of high-status mexicanos as determined from social columns of El Amigo del Hogar and lists of officers of mutual aid societies.
            
            
            
               Courtesy East 
                            Chicago
                         Public Library.
            
            
            The earnings of Mexican steelworkers also provided the capital and the clientele for a small but
                    growing business community. While a few entrepreneurs had arrived in East 
                        Chicago
                     with enough capital to start small businesses, most Mexican-owned enterprises were
                    financed by savings from employment in the steel industry. By 1928 there were sixty-seven Mexican
                    commercial establishments, mainly restaurants, barber shops, pool halls, and grocery stores. Only a
                    few Mexican-owned businesses were of a type requiring more than a modest outlay of capital; among
                    these were two print shops and two retail stores which dealt in clothing, typewriters, radios, and
                    phonographs. In 1926, a nationalistic appeal was made for Mexicans to invest in a movie house which
                    would exhibit Spanish-language films, and it met with at least moderate success. Generally, however,
                        mexicano businesses were small and served the special needs of the colonia. As late as 1929 only three of the more than one thousand members of the
                    East 
                        Chicago
                     Chamber of Commerce were Mexican. The isolation of the mexicano
                    business community reflected the isolation of the colonia as a whole from the
                    mainstream of East 
                        Chicago
                     life.21
            
            From the outset relations between the colonia and the rest of the community were
                    strained. Resentment against Mexicans for their role in the 1919 strike persisted for many years
                    even though most mexicano steel workers had come to East 
                        Chicago
                     some years later. Hostility toward Mexicans did not derive solely from their image as
                    strikebreakers but was compounded by racial and cultural prejudices. Most East Chicagoans viewed the
                        colonia as a source of immorality and crime. The city's leading
                    newspaper, the Calumet News, reflected this view in its reporting; crimes
                    committed by Mexicans were given prominent coverage, often with headlines identifying the ethnicity
                    of the offender, while scant notice was given to the many cultural and social events of the colonia.
               22
            
            Animosity and prejudice were manifested in other ways: fights between Mexicans and members of other
                    ethnic groups were frequent; some movie houses maintained segregated seating for Mexican patrons;
                    and police were often harsh and arbitrary 
                  
                     21
                            El Amigo del Hogar, February 21, January 24, 1926; Taylor, Mexican Labor in the Calumet Region, 168; "New Members," East 
                                    Chicago
                                , Indiana, June, 1926, p. 189; October, 1926, p. 280; April, 1928, p.
                            174.
                  
                     22 In 1925, for example, of forty-eight news items concerning
                            Mexicans, forty-four involved reports of crime while only four dealt with cultural,
                            religious, or social events. The same pattern of reporting continued into the early 1930s.
                            Interview with José Anguiano.
               
                     in dealing with the colonia.
               23 The extent of prejudice against Mexicans can be judged by the results of a study conducted
                    for the East 
                        Chicago
                     Chamber of Commerce by a 
                        Chicago
                     consulting firm. One purpose of the study was to learn why so many persons employed in
                    East 
                        Chicago
                     lived outside the city; 24 percent of those responding to a questionnaire indicated
                    that they did not want to live in East 
                        Chicago
                     because of the city's many undesirable residents, especially Mexicans and
                    blacks. Significantly, the author of the report suggested that city officials work through leaders
                    of the colonia to restrict Mexicans to one area of the city, thereby assuaging the
                    fears of other potential residents.24
            
            The response of the colonia to discrimination and hostility was varied. On one hand
                    the colonia's elites frequently urged mexicanos to
                    conduct themselves in a way so as to gain social acceptance; on the other hand, even those urging a
                    higher standard of behavior recognized that much of the discrimination was unwarranted and supported
                    efforts to combat unfair treatment. Several times during the 1920s the Comisión
                    Honorífica Mexicana, supported by other mutual aid societies, organized boycotts of
                    theaters practicing segregation. To deal with problems with the police the colonia
                    solicited the aid of 
                        Chicago
                    's Mexican consul, who discussed complaints of illegal searches with the chief
                    of police and arranged for a mass meeting between mexicanos and police officials.
                    Despite these efforts segregated seating continued until the late 1930s, and relations between the
                        colonia and the police remained hostile.25
            
            If the Mexican experience during the 1920s reflected, in a limited way, the prosperity of the era,
                    life during the early 1930s reflected the Great Depression in its fullest severity. Between 1930 and
                    1932 steel production declined from approximately 90 percent of capacity to 15 percent nationally.
                    While no one was untouched by the resulting unemployment, mexicano steelworkers
                    were disproportionately effected. The economic gains of the 1920s were quickly wiped out. At least
                    half of Mexican businesses folded, and El Amigo del Hogar
                    
                  
                     23
                            El Amigo del Hogar, November 22, 1925; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, July 23, 1929; Taylor, Mexican Labor in the
                                Calumet Region, 144–55.
                  
                     24 James Walker, "Planning for the Future of East 
                                Chicago
                            : A General Survey of Its Social and Economic Problems, Prepared for the East 
                                Chicago
                             Chamber of Commerce, 1926," 121–22 (East 
                                Chicago
                             Public Library, East 
                                Chicago
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     25
                            
                                Hammond
                            
                            
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, April 15, 1924; El Amigo del Hogar, November
                            22, 1925; January 17, 1926; July 17, 24, 1927; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, July 23, 1929.
               
                    
                    
                  OUR LADY
                            OF GUADALUPE CHURCH, EAST CHICAGO
                  
                  Courteay Father Timothy Hunt, East 
                                Chicago
                            .
                ceased publication, as did most ethnic newspapers in the 1930s. Many unemployed mexicanos, especially solos, left East 
                        Chicago
                    ; those who remained survived as best they could.
            Aid for the unemployed in Indiana was largely the responsibility of the trustee's office in
                    each township. In East 
                        Chicago
                     some Mexican families obtained grocery orders and rent vouchers from the North Township
                    trustee. Others were aided by private charitable groups such as the Katherine House of Christian
                    Fellowship, a Baptist organization, and the 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     Mission, affiliated with Our Lady of Guadalupe Church. Many families combined
                    households and pooled meager resources. Such expedients, along with private and public relief,
                    allowed for a bare subsistence level of existence. The 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     Mission, for example, regularly fed several hundred Mexican families from food donated
                    by supermarkets; in most cases this was food that could not be sold, like stale bread and over-ripe
                    bananas. The necessity of using whatever food was available compelled Mexican families to survive on
                    such unfamiliar and often unpalatable fare as pumpernickel bread and canned clam chowder. On one
                    occasion the mission distributed several hundred pairs of high-heeled women's shoes that
                    had  been stored in a warehouse some twenty-five years. Women
                    eagerly accepted the unfashionable shoes, while young boys who wore them from necessity were more
                        reluctant.26 Economic hardship also forced a severe curtailment of organized
                    cultural and social activities. Of the eleven mutual aid societies active in the 1920s only the
                    Cuauhtémoc and the Benito Juárez survived the early years of the Depression,
                    and these were dormant until after 1933. The elaborate Mexican Independence Day celebrations of the
                    1920s gave way to modest banquets and dances during the Depression, and sophisticated cultural
                    events such as the presentations of the Cuadro Dramático ceased.27
            
            The Depression not only weakened the economic and social fabric of the Mexican community but also
                    precipitated a mass exodus which reduced the colonia to half its pre-1930 size.
                    Depression-related Mexican repatriation began as a voluntary movement of individuals and families
                    returning to Mexico at their own expense. The initial involvement of local social agencies was on a
                    humanitarian and voluntary basis. Mexicans desiring to return to Mexico but unable to afford the
                    move were often provided with railway tickets by the 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     Mission, the Emergency Relief Association, or other agencies. At times relief
                    organizations helped avert family tragedies by arranging transportation for the families of Mexicans
                    being deported as illegal aliens. Those returning to Mexico at their own expense were far more
                    numerous than those helped to relocate by social agencies. It was not until 1932, when the
                    Depression was at its worst, that repatriation ceased to be completely voluntary and became
                    primarily a program financed by local government and involving an element of coercion.28
            
            As the Depression deepened, the existing hostility toward Mexicans was reinforced by a growing belief
                    that aliens were contributing to the severity of the economic crisis, either because they were on
                    relief rolls or because they displaced citizens 
                  
                     26 East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, December 23, 1930; June 5, October 9, 23, 30, 1931;
                            interviews with Concepción González, José Anguiano, Sister
                            Cordelia Marie Bahl, Basil Pacheco; Rogers, "Our Lady of Guadalupe
                            Parish," 36–46; Walter J. Riley, The Story of Unemployment
                                Relief Work in 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana (n.p., n.d.); Oswald Garrison Villard, "
                                Hammond
                             and Gary Face the Disaster," The Nation, CXXXVI
                            (March 29, 1933), 343–44; Moore, Calumet Region,
                            558–70.
                  
                     27 Interviews with José Anguiano, Consuelo Figueroa, Sister
                            Cordelia Marie Bahl, Basil Pacheco.
                  
                     28 East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, April 25, 1930; April 21, 1931; interviews with
                            José Anguiano, Sister Cordelia Marie Bahl; Rogers, "Our Lady of
                            Guadalupe Parish," 39–44.
               
                     from jobs. In May, 1931, for example, a cartoon in the East 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Calumet News depicted an "American Citizen" standing sadly
                    outside a shoproom while a mustachioed "Undesirable Alien" worked within; a figure
                    in an Uncle Sam suit admonished the alien to "Get out and give this workman a
                    chance—he deserves it!" An October editorial complained of the burden placed on
                    relief organizations by the city's unemployed aliens.29
            
            Anti-alien and anti-Mexican sentiment was given concrete expression when a coalition of relief
                    officials and civic groups organized a massive repatriation campaign. An East 
                        Chicago
                     American Legion Post played a leading role in the movement for repatriation, working
                    closely with the North Township trustee's office and the Emergency Relief Association of
                    the Community Chest. The basic rationale of the organizers of repatriation was similar to that
                    expressed in cities such as 
                  Los Angeles, Detroit
               , and Gary. Unemployed Mexicans, they felt, were
                    a tremendous burden on public and private relief agencies, while those still employed indirectly
                    harmed the rest of the community by depriving citizens of jobs. As one of the leaders of the
                    repatriation effort put it, "the most effective plan of relief for this community would be
                    the removal of the nationalists [sic], especially the Mexicans."30
            
            In September, 1931, the American Legion announced a program to combat the Depression which included
                    the repatriation of indigent aliens. The North Township trustee pledged cooperation if needed funds
                    could be secured. In a lengthy letter to William Doak, who as secretary of labor had overall control
                    of federal immigration and deportation policy, a Legion official detailed the case for repatriation.
                    High unemployment had strained relief resources to the breaking point, he wrote, but the situation
                    could be alleviated by removal of the city's Mexicans: "Here is our
                    problem—to rid this community of Mexicans…. By them leaving, our unemployment
                    problem here in this city, and in fact of almost the entire 
                        Lake County
                     would be solved." Secretary Doak, himself an advocate of alien repatriation as
                    a means of combatting the Depression, expressed interest in the plan, but a labor department survey
                        
                  
                     29 East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, May 12, October 31, 1931.
                  
                     30 Untitled article on repatriation in American Legion Repatriation
                            File (East 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collection, East 
                                Chicago
                             Public Library). For a more complete account see Daniel T. Simon,
                            "Mexican Repatriation in East 
                                Chicago
                            , Indiana," Journal of Ethnic Studies, II (Summer,
                            1974), 11–23.
               
                     showed that most of the Mexicans in East 
                        Chicago
                     could not be deported because of immigration law violations.31
            
            Faced with the inability of the federal government to finance their plan, advocates of repatriation
                    turned to local sources for funds. The East 
                        Chicago
                     Manufacturers Association agreed to advance the necessary money in exchange for scrip
                    which could be used to pay local tax assessments, and arrangements were made with several railroads
                    for special group fares from East 
                        Chicago
                     to the Mexican border at 
                  Laredo,
                            Texas
               .32 A
                    "Repatriation Committee" now began compiling lists of repatriates. While many mexicanos were eager to return to Mexico, coercion was involved. As in other
                    American cities relief authorities made it easier to accept repatriation than to obtain assistance.
                    While the township trustee continued to aid many Mexican families, help was given grudgingly; at
                    times, according to a Catholic missionary active in aiding Mexicans, relief officials made
                    applicants "feel like something slimy." On other occasions relief was denied to
                    those refusing repatriation. Whatever the relative importance of coercion and voluntary
                    repatriation, by the end of May, 1932, the Repatriation Committee had compiled a large list of
                    returnees, which it submitted to the Mexican consul in 
                        Chicago
                     to be certain that each repatriate would be accepted by the Mexican government.33
            
            Between June and October six trainloads of repatriates, each in the charge of a Legionnaire, departed
                    for 
                        Laredo
                    . The 1,032 repatriates involved in this program represented 112 families and 382 single
                    men. Most of them were destined for one of the three west central states—Guanajuato,
                    Michoacan, and Jalisco—which had provided the bulk of Mexican immigration to the
                        Midwest.34 Those departing under the Legion program brought the total number
                    of East 
                        Chicago
                    's mexicano residents who left during the first three years
                    of the Depression to approximately three thousand, a reduction in the size of the colonia to somewhat less than one half its pre-Depression size.35
                    
                  
                     31 Paul Kelly to William Doak, March 4, 1932, Doak to Kelly, March 15,
                            24, 1932, American Legion Repatriation File; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, September 18, 1931.
                  
                     32 R.R. Flynn to Paul Kelly, June 1, 1932, correspondence with various
                            railroads, April, 1932, American Legion Repatriation File; 
                                Hammond
                            
                            
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, May 3, 10, 19, 21, June 14, August 23, 26, 1932.
                  
                     33 Paul Kelly to Rafael Avalyra, July 15, September 15, 1932, American
                            Legion Repatriation File; interviews with Jesse Villalpando, José Anguiano,
                            Sister Cordelia Marie Bahl, Concepción González.
                  
                     34 List of repatriates in American Legion Repatriation File.
                  
                     35 Riley, Unemployment Relief Work, 10; Paul S.
                            Taylor, Mexican Labor in the 
                                    United States
                                : Migration Statistics, IV (University of 
                                    California
                                 Publications in Economics, Vol. XII, No. 3; Berkeley, 1934),
                            43–48.
               
                     An examination of the East 
                        Chicago
                     addresses of the repatriates indicates that most came from the old core of the colonia, the traditional first area of residence for new arrivals. This, together
                    with the large proportion of single men in the group repatriated by the Legion program, suggests
                    that repatriation was largely a movement of the most recently arrived and least rooted members of
                    the East 
                        Chicago
                    
                    colonia.
            
            The mass exodus of the early 1930s wrought profound changes in the demographic composition of the
                    Mexican colonia. The departure of many transient Mexicans, especially solos, stabilized the population socially and sexually. The extent of the change can be
                    measured by a comparison of population characteristics in 1930 and 1940. In 1930 there were
                    approximately seventy-six Mexican men in East 
                        Chicago
                     for every twenty-four women; fewer than 30 percent of the men had wives in East 
                        Chicago
                    . By 1940 this imbalance was far less severe. The ratio of adult Mexican males to
                    females was approximately fifty-eight to forty-two, and fully half the men had wives. Further
                    indicative of the change is a higher proportion of children in the Mexican population in 1940.36 By the end of the decade social stability was more characteristic of the colonia than in its earlier stages of development. The vice and violence that had
                    been prevalent when the colonia was largely made up of single men declined
                    considerably, and with the absence of in-migration Mexican families were more rooted in East 
                        Chicago
                     since most had been in the city at least ten years.
            The new socialization patterns for youth that developed in the 1930s represented a further departure
                    from Mexican traditions and norms than had been the case during the 1920s. The decline of Mexican
                    cultural events and the increasing isolation of the colonia from direct contact
                    with Mexico strengthened the influence of American institutions and cultural values. In contrast to
                    the 1920s, by 1940 a large proportion of Mexican students were completing high school and
                    participating in extracurricular activities such as sports. New Deal programs were likewise
                    important in exposing young mexicanos to the larger society. Many Mexican youths
                    participated in the recreation 
                  
                     36 Figures for 1930 are based on the federal census, which classified
                            Mexicans, wherever born, as a separate race; use of the 1940 census to obtain detailed
                            figures was impossible because Mexicans were classified as Caucasians. Consequently, figures
                            for 1940 are based on the city directory for that year. The 1940 directory indicates that
                            880 Spanish-surnamed male heads of household were married, while 65 male heads of household
                            were single. At the same time, this contrasts radically with the 1930 census, which showed a
                            male-to-female ratio of 26:10.
               
                     program that the National Youth Administration established at
                    the Mexican Catholic Church, various activities sponsored by the Works Progress Administration, and
                    the Civilian Conservation Corps. The cultural change that took place is exemplified by the gradual
                    shift in the musical tastes of many young Mexicans. During the 1920s dances featured Mexican-style
                    orchestra music; by the late 1930s mexicano bands were playing the popular swing
                    music of the era.37
            
            While New Deal programs were an important influence on the youth of the colonia,
                    they were of less importance to adult mexicanos. The Home Owners Loan Corporation,
                    for example, aided many East Chicagoans but had little effect on Mexicans because few were
                    homeowners. The various WPA projects, which provided employment for about four hundred of the
                    city's jobless during most of the Depression, were of less benefit to Mexicans than to most
                    other groups. During the early years of the WPA some two dozen mexicanos were
                    employed, but increasing congressional restrictions on the employment of non-citizens after 1936
                    made it difficult for Mexicans to obtain WPA jobs. At the same time improved conditions in the steel
                    industry, especially after 1938, brought the reemployment of much of the working-age mexicano population. By 1940, only six of 381 WPA employees were mexicanos.
               38
            
            Another development of the later 1930s was increased political activity by mexicanos, generally along lines similar to those followed by earlier immigrant groups.
                    Throughout the history of East 
                        Chicago
                     ethnic political clubs had been a vehicle for political mobility. Since the early years
                    of the century groups such as the Polish White Eagle Democratic Club, the Rumanian American
                    Political Club, the Croatian-Adriatic Political Club, and numerous others were active in city
                    politics, often enabling leaders of ethnic communities to win elective office or to secure patronage
                    appointments. In the 1920s little such activity existed among Mexicans in East 
                        Chicago
                    . Although some signs of political interest were evident by 1929, political development
                    was impossible during the early 1930s, when the colonia was disrupted by massive
                    unemployment and 
                  
                     37 National Youth Administration, "A Survey of Juvenile
                            Delinquency in East 
                                Chicago
                            , Indiana, Final Report, June 15, 1937," 20–24; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Globe, December 30, 1938; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, December 29, 1938; May 23, 1940; interviews with Eduardo
                            Peralta, Donoseo Muñoz, Basil Pacheco.
                  
                     38 Interviews with Teodoro Navarro, Victor García, Hilario
                            Silva, José Anguiano, Basil Pacheco, Martín Blanco; list of WPA
                            employees in 1940 city directory; Donald S. Howard, The WPA and Federal Relief
                                Policy (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 65–66, 303–18.
               
                     repatriation. In the later New Deal years partial economic
                    recovery, the social changes resulting from the Depression, and the greater contact of youth with
                    American institutions produced increased interest in electoral politics. In 1938 the "First
                    Mexican American Political Club" was formed by a group of native-born and recently
                    naturalized mexicanos, many of whom held white-collar jobs or union leadership
                    positions. The stated goals of the organization were to unite the colonia as a
                    voting bloc, to participate actively in all campaigns, and to assist Mexicans who desired to become 
                        United States
                     citizens. One club member unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for state
                    representative, while another was a Republican precinct committeeman. The club's efforts
                    brought little success because relatively few mexicanos were eligible to vote and
                    because the club was divided on political issues. Nonetheless, it marked the beginning of active mexicano participation in the electoral process.39 During the
                    late 1930s, for the first time significant numbers of East 
                        Chicago
                    
                    mexicanos became naturalized U.S. citizens.40
            
            Another experience of the Depression years that brought the mexicanos of East 
                        Chicago
                     into the wider orbit of American life was the evolution of the labor movement in the
                    steel industry. Following the split between John L. Lewis and other American Federation of Labor
                    leaders over the proper approach to organizing industrial workers, Lewis formed the Steel Workers
                    Organizing Committee (SWOC). By early 1937 SWOC had enrolled a substantial portion of the
                    nation's steelworkers and was recognized by 
                        United States
                     Steel, the industry's largest producer.
            Mexican steelworkers were active in SWOC organizing activities at East 
                        Chicago
                    's Youngstown and Inland plants. Many mexicano workers had
                    experience in collective action prior to 
                  
                     39 East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Globe, March 25, 1938; December 13, 1940; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, March 31, November 3, 1938; January 19, 1939; November 14,
                            December 5, 1940; April 9, May 7, 1942; April 27, 1944; Angelo F. Machuca to Sociedad Benito
                            Juárez, April 9, 1942, files of Unióon Benéfica Mexicana,
                            East 
                                Chicago
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     40 The index card files of the U.S. Immigration Office, Federal
                            Courthouse, 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, record 148 completed naturalizations by Mexicans in East 
                                Chicago
                             between 1936 and 1945, a figure which represents approximately 14 percent of
                            the city's Mexican-born population and suggests a higher rate of Mexican
                            naturalization than for the country as a whole. See also Leo Grebler, "The
                            Naturalization of Mexican Immigrants in the 
                                United States
                            ," International Migration Review, I (Fall, 1966),
                            17–32; Helen W. Walker, "Mexican Immigrants and American
                            Citizenship," Sociology and Social Research, XIII (May-June,
                            1929), 465–71; Humphrey, "
                                Detroit
                             Mexican Immigrant and Naturalization."
               
                     the SWOC drive of 1936–1937: some had been active in
                    the Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel and Tin Workers, and on at least one occasion during the
                    1920s a group of Mexican workers at Youngstown had left their tools at a worksite as a protest
                    against what they felt to be an unfair calculation of hours worked. While a few influential members
                    of the colonia were indifferent or hostile to unionism, most were receptive. The
                    interest of Mexican workers in unionism derived basically from the grievances they shared with other
                    workers, but it was given added force by resentment over the discriminatory practices that relegated
                    them to the least desirable jobs in the industry.41 In May, 1937, SWOC called a
                    strike at the "Little Steel" plants that refused to recognize the union, including
                    the Inland and Youngstown works in East 
                        Chicago
                    . According to an early president of the SWOC local at Inland, Mexican workers were
                    crucial to the success of the picket lines at East 
                        Chicago
                    's steel plants, contributing at times three-fourths of the demonstrators.42
                    Mexicanos were among the many East 
                        Chicago
                     steelworkers involved in the picketing at the Republic Steel plant in South 
                        Chicago
                     which culminated in the "Memorial Day Massacre" of 1937. Six of the
                    two dozen East Chicagoans injured in the incident were Mexicans.43
            
            While the Little Steel strike was generally a failure, partial victories were obtained at Youngstown
                    and Inland. The intervention of Indiana governor M. Clifford Townsend brought limited recognition by
                    East 
                        Chicago
                    's steel firms of SWOC unions as collective bargaining agents for their
                    members. With the signing of a formal contract with SWOC in 1941 the acceptance of grievance
                    procedures and seniority as a basis for 
                  
                     41 "Steel Workers' Organizing Committee
                            Report" (ca. 1936), in papers of Samuel Evett, District 31, United Steelworkers of
                            America; interviews with Manuel Trbovich, John Sargent, Basil Pacheco; Francisco A. Resales
                            and Daniel T. Simon, "Mexican Steelworkers and Unionism in the Midwest,
                            1919–1945," Aztlán, VI (Summer, 1975),
                            267–75.
                  
                     42 "Examination of Andrew Opincar, Joe Vovetich, 
                                Chester
                             Janiszewski, Frank Lawrence, Nick Zamic, and John Chesko, on June 18th, A. D.,
                            1937, at Union National Bank Building, Indiana Harbor, Indiana, by T. G. Lewis,
                            Attorney," in Evett Papers; interviews with John Sargent, Manuel Trbovich.
                  
                     43 U.S. Congress, Senate, Committee on Education and Labor, Violations of Free Speech and Rights of Labor: Hearings Before a Subcommittee
                                of the Committee on Education and Labor. … 75th Cong., 1st sess., June
                            30-July 2, 1937, part 14, "The 
                                Chicago
                             Memorial Day Incident," 4707, 4768, 4945–57; ibid., 75th Cong., 2nd sess., November 18, 1937, part 15-D, "The 
                                Chicago
                             Memorial Day Incident," 6779–6843 passim;
                            "List of S.W.O.C. Parade Members Arrested or Injured on Memorial Day, May 30th,
                            1937, Republic Steel Corporation Demonstration," Evett Papers; 
                                Hammond
                            
                            Times, June 1, 1937; interviews with George Patterson, John Sargent,
                            Manuel Trbovich.
               
                     promotion followed. These procedures eliminated some of the
                    worst forms of discrimination that had plagued mexicano and black workers. It was
                    only after the establishment of seniority sequences that Mexicans could advance to jobs as cranemen
                    or second helpers on open hearth furnaces. That discrimination was not completely eradicated
                    following the SWOC victory, however, is indicated by the subsequent experience of Frank Flores, an
                    East 
                        Chicago
                    
                    mexicano who in 1939 successfully completed a course in welding but was told that
                    Mexicans would not be hired in this capacity. In addition to reducing some of the barriers to
                    advancement in the steel industry, the union movement provided other opportunities for broader
                    participation in American life. By the early 1940s Mexican steel-workers were serving as shop
                    stewards and standing as candidates for local union posts.44
            
            Increased participation by Mexicans in community life did not imply a process of assimilation
                    involving the complete abandonment of traditional culture and values. Rather, mexicanos, like other ethnic groups, gradually became involved in the affairs of the larger
                    society while retaining a strong sense of group identity and cohesion. Participation in institutions
                    of the whole community such as unions, schools, or political parties did not preclude the
                    maintenance of wholly Mexican organizations. Thus, with partial recovery from the Depression by the
                    late 1930s mutual aid societies again became important in the life of the colonia,
                    and there was a renaissance of cultural activities such as Mexican holiday celebrations. By 1940
                    there was renewed importation of music from Mexico, although American swing music continued to be an
                    important influence, especially among youth. Mexicans, like other ethnic groups, continued to
                    maintain separate Catholic and Baptist churches.45
            
            World War II accelerated the pace of social change within the Mexican community. Approximately three
                    hundred Mexicans saw military service in other parts of the 
                        United States
                     and abroad.46 At home the war effort further involved the 
                  
                     44 Alice and Staughton Lynd, eds., Rank and File:
                                Personal Histories by Working-Class Organizers (
                                Boston
                            , 1973), 169; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, April 9, 1942; June 22, 1944; interviews with Frank Flores,
                            Basil Pacheco, Samuel Evett, Manuel Trbovich.
                  
                     45 East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, August 27, 1942; September 16, 1943; March 2, 1944;
                            interviews with Hilario Silva, José Anguiano; Correspondence Files,
                            Unión Benéfica Mexicana, East 
                                Chicago
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     46 Based on lists of draftees and volunteers appearing in East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, 1940–1945.
               
                    
                    
                  ARTICLES
                            IN
                            
                        EL AMIGO DEL HOGAR
                      HELPED
                            
                                MEXICANO
                             IMMIGRANTS MAINTAIN THEIR
                                MEXICAN IDENTITY
                  
                  Courtesy Eaat 
                                Chicago
                             Public Library
               
                    
                    colonia with the greater society. The mutual aid societies, which in the past had
                    been relatively isolated from the rest of the community, became active in such war-related projects
                    as bond sales drives, patriotic celebrations, Red Cross campaigns, and civil defense.47 Like many of the ethnic clubs in East 
                        Chicago
                    , Mexican societies frequently issued statements stressing the importance of their group
                    to the war effort. Such statements became a regular ritual for most of the city's ethnic
                    associations, serving to assert group solidarity while at the same time affirming loyalty to the war
                    effort. In April, 1942, for example, the president of the Sociedad Cuauhtémoc took note
                    of the many mexicanos in the military and pledged his organization to purchase
                    $10,000 worth of defense bonds.48 The war also brought changes in the
                    status of Mexican women, many of whom joined the military or labored in the steel mills.
                    Naturalization among East 
                        Chicago
                    's mexicanos reached a peak during the later years of the
                    war. Perhaps the accelerated pace of social change was most noticeable among those mexicanos who served in the armed forces. Many returning veterans began to question the
                    subordinate role to which Mexicans had been relegated and asserted themselves in community life by
                    becoming active in politics or preparing for professional occupations in education, law, or
                        medicine.49
            
            Prejudice and discrimination remained a problem for the colonia, although by the
                    end of the war significant changes had occurred in the way other East Chicagoans viewed mexicanos. The press now reported the activities of the colonia in a
                    more balanced way, giving their attention to cultural, religious, and social events. The
                    achievements of Mexicans in the military not only received notice in the press but earned the
                    grudging respect of the rest of the community. In 1944, the American Legion post that twelve years
                    earlier had promoted the nativist repatriation campaign organized a homecoming celebration for a mexicano Marine sergeant who had won several decorations for service in the
                    Pacific; as a further irony, immediately following the war the Legion actively recruited Mexican
                    veterans 
                  
                     47 P. Jiménez to Victor Guerrero, May 22, 1941, Carmen
                            Fesseria to Sociedad Benito Juárez, June 18, 1942, H.R. Silva to Irvin Lewin,
                            February 8, 1945, files of Unión Benéfica Mexicana; East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, February 26, 1942.
                  
                     48 East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, April 9, 1942.
                  
                     49 Correspondence of Latin-American Veterans' Club,
                            1946–1949, files of Unión Benéfica Mexicana; interviews
                            with Concepción González, Sister Cordelia Marie Bahl.
               
                     for membership and staged a "Latin American G.I.
                        Night."50 These were to an extent superficial incidents, but they
                    did indicate that discrimination, still all too prevelant in areas such as employment and housing,
                    was no longer as intense and rigid as in the prewar years.
            The pattern of development that emerges from the study of the East 
                        Chicago
                    
                    colonia mexicana contains several elements that appear to be generally applicable
                    to other midwestern cities. The original colonia can be traced to what Feliciano
                    Rivera and Matt Meier have termed the second wave of Mexican immigration to the 
                        United States
                    , commencing with the Mexican Revolution and ending with the Great Depression. Social
                    and economic disorder in West Central Mexico arising out of the militant phases of the revolution
                    prompted a mass exodus northward. At the same time a growing demand for transportation and
                    industrial labor created employment opportunities which attracted these uprooted people. By the
                    early 1920s a geographically concentrated Mexican community had formed in East 
                        Chicago
                    , as in a number of midwestern industrial cities. During the prosperous 1920s the colonia attracted many new Mexican immigrants, predominantly single men, from a
                    variety of social classes. The colonia, although politically and economically
                    weak, met the social and cultural needs of its inhabitants by providing Mexican-oriented
                    institutions to a population who perceived themselves as Mexican citizens temporarily living in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The Great Depression altered the development of East 
                        Chicago
                    's colonia. Economic disruption, the end of immigration, and
                    repatriation severed the close attachment to Mexico. The Mexican population stabilized and
                    contracted as the most transient elements returned to Mexico. New socialization patterns emerged for
                    young people as the lack of new immigrants and economic hardship curtailed reinforcements of
                    traditional culture and values. New Deal programs and industrial labor organizations increased the
                    involvement of mexicanos with the larger society. By the end of the decade a
                    greater number of Mexican children were completing high school, the beginnings of political
                    participation were evident, and for the first time significant numbers of Mexican immigrants were
                    being naturalized. World War II intensified this process; many young mexicanos
                    served in the military, while at home the war effort further involved the Mexican community with the
                    mainstream 
                  
                     50 East 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Calumet News, March 23, 1944; November 14, 1946.
               
                     of American life. The end of the war marks the end of an era
                    for the old mexicano communities in East 
                        Chicago
                     and in other midwestern urban centers: the migration of new Hispanic elements into the
                    cities soon was to alter the social and cultural composition of the colonias.
            
            The experience of the Mexican immigrants who came to East 
                        Chicago
                     during the 1920s and their descendants resembles in many ways that of other immigrant
                    groups to this industrial center. By the end of World War II mexicanos, like other
                    ethnic groups before them, participated in most aspects of East 
                        Chicago
                     life. Also like earlier immigrant groups, they participated in the larger society
                    without giving up their identity or their culture. The comparison between Mexicans and other
                    immigrants, however, cannot be carried too far. For example, mexicanos faced a
                    form of racial discrimination to which many European immigrants were not subjected. Nor did most
                    other immigrant groups undergo an experience like the massive repatriation of the early Depression
                    years. In these respects, then, the experience of Mexican immigrants to the Midwest resembled that
                    of Mexican immigrants in the southwestern 
                        United States
                    . Following World War II the large influx of immigrants from 
                  Texas, Puerto Rico
               ,
                    and Mexico into East 
                        Chicago
                     and other midwestern cities inaugurated a new era in the history of Spanish-speaking
                    peoples in the Midwest. The experience of mexicanos between 1919 and 1945,
                    however, provided the framework within which these later communities would develop.
         
         
         
            Charles 
                        Warren
                     Fairbanks and the Republican National Convention of 1900: A Memoir
            
                    Lewis L. Gould
                    ∗
                
            When Republicans gathered in their national conventions in the early twentieth century and thoughts
                    turned to the vice-presidency, the name of Senator Charles 
                        Warren
                     Fairbanks of Indiana came readily to mind. In 1904 he was Theodore Roosevelt's
                    running mate, and he spent the years 1905 to 1909 in the relative obscurity that the
                    president's energy marked out for the vice-president. When Charles Evans Hughes of 
                        New York
                     was nominated to run against Woodrow Wilson in 1916, Fairbanks was once again selected
                    to balance the GOP ticket. Though not a candidate for the place, he "felt it my duty to
                    accept" when the second nomination came to him, although this time the Republican ticket
                    did not win.1
            
            Fairbanks had a chance at the vice-presidency even earlier. In 1900 he was mentioned as a possible
                    nominee with President William McKinley and could have received the president's endorsement
                    had he expressed interest. Fairbanks pondered the matter, as he later recalled, and may have desired
                    the place. The circumstances that thrust Theodore Roosevelt into the vice-presidency in 1900,
                    however, were too powerful for anyone to overcome, and when McKinley died from the effects of an
                    assassin's bullet on September 14, 1901, it was Roosevelt who succeeded him in the White
                    House.
            Fifteen years later Charles S. Olcott became William McKinley's official biographer.2 In the course of his research, Olcott sought memoranda on central events of
                    the president's 
                  
                     ∗ Lewis L. Gould is professor of history, University of 
                                Texas
                            , Austin. His most recent book is The Presidency of William
                                McKinley (Lawrence, 
                                Kansas
                            , 1980).
                  
                     1 Charles W. Fairbanks to Victor Rosewater, June 26, 1916, Victor
                            Rosewater Papers (American Jewish Archives, 
                                Cincinnati
                            ).
                  
                     2 Charles S. Olcott, The Life of William McKinley (2
                            vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1916).
               
                    
                    
                  CHARLES WARREN FAIRBANKS, CA. 1904
                  Reproduced from William Henry Smith, The Life and Speeches of Hon.
                                Charles 
                                    Warren
                                 Fairbanks, Republican Candidate for Vice-President (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1904), frontispiece.
               
                     life from his friends and political associates. Fairbanks
                    supplied a lengthy document entitled "The Vice Presidency" that outlined his role
                    in the Republican National Convention at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in June, 1900. Olcott used one page of Fairbanks's nine-page memorandum in his
                    study; the entire document has never been printed. It contains revealing insights into this national
                    convention that so affected the subsequent history of the GOP, and it is clearly the source of some
                    of the enduring anecdotes about Theodore Roosevelt.
            The vice-presidency became an immediate concern for McKinley in November, 1899, when the incumbent,
                    Garret A. Hobart of 
                        New Jersey
                    , died after a long illness. Speculation immediately focused on the governor of 
                        New York
                    , Theodore Roosevelt, whose youth, popularity, and geographical base made him seem an
                    ideal complement to the president. While friends such as Henry Cabot Lodge of 
                        Massachusetts
                     and Senator William E. Chandler of 
                        New Hampshire
                     advised him to be receptive, Roosevelt saw the post as a dead end that would block his
                    path to the White House. In February, 1900, he even went so far as to issue what appeared to be an
                    unequivocal public refusal. "Under no circumstances," he said,
                    "could I or would I accept the nomination for the Vice-presidency."3
            
            A number of forces worked to move Roosevelt away from this outright negative. By the spring of 1900
                    he could not bring himself to say that he would refuse the vice-presidency if it were offered to
                    him. As long as he made no Sherman-like statement, his backers continued to hope and to prod. In 
                        New York
                     the state's Republican leader, Senator Thomas Collier Platt, found his
                    corporate contributors upset at Roosevelt's attempts to tax business franchises and to
                    develop a state program on the antitrust question. These industrial constituents told Platt
                    "that they would not contribute a dollar to the republican campaign fund if Roosevelt is
                    nominated for Governor."4 Platt helped to keep Roosevelt's
                    vice-presidential prospects alive between February and June, 1900.
            President McKinley could not in this same period find a plausible alternative to the New Yorker. He
                    thought first of Elihu Root, his secretary of war, but decided that the cabinet officer, who had
                    only joined the administration in August, 
                  
                     3 Quoted in Henry F. Pringle, Theodore Roosevelt: A
                                Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 218.
                  
                     4 George Frederick William Holls to Andrew I). White, June 12, 1900,
                            Albert Shaw Papers (
                                New York
                             Public Library, 
                                New York
                            ).
               
                     1899, should stay where he was. In the early months of 1900
                    there was public speculation about Secretary of the Navy John D. Long, Seth Low, Andrew D. White,
                    William Boyd Allison, and Jonathan P. Dolliver as possible nominees. None of these men could match
                    the popularity and charisma of Roosevelt. As Lodge wrote in late April, "I think the Vice
                    Presidency is closing in on him and that the party will insist upon his nomination."5
            
            Apprehensive about Roosevelt's impetuous nature and his political reliability, the president
                    scanned the GOP leadership for another possible running mate. In such a canvass it was natural that
                    Fairbanks's name would come up. He had been a 
                        United States
                     senator for only three years but was recognized as someone very close to the president
                    both politically and personally. Fairbanks was just forty-eight on the eve of the convention. A
                    native of 
                        Ohio
                    , he had settled in Indiana as a young lawyer; his practice and political career
                    prospered simultaneously. In 1896 he was the keynote speaker when the Republicans nominated McKinley
                    at 
                        St. Louis
                    . Within Indiana he used his personal fortune and control of such key newspapers as the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News to construct a political organization which made him the state's
                    leading Republican. In 1898 and 1899 he had been chairman of the Anglo-American Joint High
                    Commission, a body which dealt with such vexing problems as the Alaska boundary question. On paper
                    he would have added strength to the ticket.6
            
            Fairbanks was not an outstanding national leader, however, and those in the upper echelons of the GOP
                    knew it. To some extent it was his aloof public demeanor that limited his popularity. As Mrs. James
                    L. Slayden, the wife of a Democratic congressman, put it, "Mr. Fairbanks seems an
                    icicle." An obvious ambition for the White House put others off. Fairbanks was also very
                    cautious, "almost as timid as was the boy who was 
                  
                     5 Henry Cabot Lodge to Leonard Wood, April 24, 1900, Henry Cabot Lodge
                            Papers (
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society, 
                                Boston
                            ).
                  
                     6 For biographical data on Fairbanks, see William Henry Smith, The Life and Speeches of Hon. Charles 
                                    Warren
                                 Fairbanks, Republican Candidate for Vice-President (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1904); Thomas R. Shipp, "Charles 
                                Warren
                             Fairbanks, Republican Candidate for Vice-President," American Monthly Review of Reviews, XXX (August, 1904), 176–81; and
                            Herbert J. Rissler, "Charles 
                                Warren
                             Fairbanks: Conservative Hoosier," (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of
                            History, Indiana University, 1961). The best brief account is James H. Madison,
                            "Charles 
                                Warren
                             Fairbanks and Indiana Republicanism," in Ralph D. Gray, ed., Gentlemen from Indiana: National Party Candidates, 1836–1940 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1977), 171–88.
               
                     afraid to say boo to the goose." But most of all,
                    there was the sense that Fairbanks had already found his true level, that he "may not be a
                    great Statesman," but "he certainly is a great Politician." Some of these
                    qualities come through in Fairbanks's recollections of his brush with destiny in 1900.7
            
            
               
                  7 Ellen Maury Slayden, 
                     
                                Washington
                             Wife: Journal of Ellen Maury Slayden from 1897–1919 (
                            New York
                        , 1962, 1963), 119; Louis T. Michener to James S. Clarkson, October 15, 1902, James
                        S. Clarkson Papers (Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.); 
                            Madison
                        , "Fairbanks," in Gray, Gentlemen, 171.
            
            
            The Vice Presidency.8
            
            Charles 
                        Warren
                     Fairbanks
            It was generally conceded that President McKinley would be nominated at 
                        Philadelphia
                    . His administration had been so eminently successful and he was so popular that there
                    was no division of opinion anywhere with respect to the fact that he should again lead his people in
                    the great national contest, and it was generally regarded as a foregone conclusion that he would be
                    re-elected.
            The only question open for debate was who should be the Vice Presidential nominee. It seemed to be
                    taken for granted that he should be some one entirely acceptable to the President. But no one seemed
                    to know his preference, if he had one. One name and then another was proposed in the general
                    discussion, but there was no agreement as to the nominee. Suggestions were made to him from time to
                    time, but he seemed to have maintained the attitude of a listener. It was understood, however, that
                    Cornelius N. Bliss9 of 
                        New York
                    , who had ably served as Secretary of the Interior, would be an agreeable associate. Mr.
                    Bliss was properly located to balance the ticket and was politically in perfect accord with his
                    former chief. When he was approached upon the subject by Senator Hanna10 he
                    declined to entertain it, particularly on account of the health of Mrs. Bliss, to whom 
                        Washington
                     life was uncongenial.
            Some weeks before the convention when I called to see the President upon some public business he said
                    to me: "Senator, Senator Davis11 of 
                        Minnesota
                     came to see me this morning and said that you should be nominated for Vice President.
                    He spoke very kindly of you and earnestly hoped that the convention would select you." I
                    was of course taken by surprise, as the thought had never occurred to me. I simply said in reply:
                    "Mr. President, it is very generous of Senator Davis to mention me for the nomination, and
                    it is very kind of you to tell me of his 
                  
                     8 "Reminiscences—the Vice Presidency,"
                            Charles W. Fairbanks Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     9 Cornelius Newton Bliss (1833–1911) was
                            McKinley's secretary of the interior from 1897 to 1898. An opponent of Thomas C.
                            Platt in 
                                New York
                            , he had served as treasurer of the Republican National Committee in 1892 and
                            1896. He held the same post again in 1900.
                  
                     10 Marcus Alonzo Hanna (1837–1904) was a senator from 
                                Ohio
                             from 1897 to 1904 and President McKinley's closest political ally. In
                            1900, however, their friendship was not as close as it had been, and the senator was
                            operating on his own in the vice-presidential matter.
                  
                     11 Cushman Kellogg Davis (1838–1900) was a senator from 
                                Minnesota
                            , 1887–1900, and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.
               
                     partiality. I thank you both." No further comment was
                    made upon the subject and I immediately left for the Senate.
            Soon after the morning hour in the Senate, Senator Davis, who occupied a seat not far from me, came
                    to my desk to ask some question, whereupon I said to him: "Senator, that was very nice of
                    you." "What?" he asked with some little surprise, as I had not
                    particularized. "What you said to the President this morning," I replied.
                    "About you? About the Vice Presidency?" he inquired. "Yes," I
                    answered. "Did he tell you about it?" he asked. I nodded assent and he continued:
                    "I told him that because it is the way I feel. I think it is what the party should do and I
                    frankly told the President so; but I had no thought that it would reach your ears."
                    "Well," I said, "I have found you out." And that ended the
                    incident.
            While the Vice Presidency was subsequently mentioned by others it was never referred to by the
                    President until Thursday evening before the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention was to assemble.12 It was desired by Senator Hanna,
                    chairman of the National Committee, and others that I should be the chairman of the Committee on
                    Resolutions. A number of informal conferences by a number of the friends of the administration,
                    including Senators Hanna, Spooner,13 Post-Master General Smith,14 myself and others, were held before leaving 
                        Washington
                    , at which various planks of a platform were suggested, discussed and outlined. There
                    was general agreement as to the substance of the more important resolutions to be presented to the
                    Committee on Resolutions.
            As a matter of courtesy I called at the White House before leaving for 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and to get any suggestions the President might have as to the platform upon which the
                    campaign should be fought. I always felt, by the way, that with the President as our candidate a
                    formal declaration of party principles was quite unnecessary. Usage rather than necessity compelled
                    a declaration of policies. Upon arriving at the White House I found the President in the upper rear
                    family hall and alone, engaged with his cigar and reading the evening paper, possibly the gossip
                    which was already being sent out from 
                        Philadelphia
                     as the delegates arrived. I told him that I had 
                  
                     12 June 14, 1900.
                  
                     13 John Coit Spooner (1843–1919) was a senator from 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1885–1891 and 1897–1907, and a member of the inner
                            circle of the Republican party in the upper house.
                  
                     14 Charles Emory Smith (1842–1908) had been editor of the 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            Press and served as postmaster general from 1898 to 1902.
               
                     dropped in merely to say good-by, as I was leaving for 
                        Philadelphia
                     the day following. He said he was glad that I had come, and that I was to be chairman
                    of the Committee on Resolutions; he hoped that no mistake would be made with reference to our policy
                    in the Philippines, 
                        Cuba
                     and Porto Rica [sic]. Soon after our conversation began Hon. John D. Long,15 Secretary of the Navy, entered and the President excused himself for a moment
                    while he and the Secretary engaged in conversation. I turned away that I might not overhear what was
                    said. They were not long engaged, and when the Secretary retired the President said: "The
                    Secretary wants to be nominated for Vice President," and intimated that this was
                    impracticable, though he did not say so in so many words. He then said after a few moments:
                    "Senator, they may turn to you at 
                        Philadelphia
                    ." I was somewhat at a loss to know what reply to make. In a moment I said:
                    "I thank you, Mr. President, for your confidence and kindness. As you of course know, I
                    desire to serve you whenever and wherever I can. But I do not know that what you suggest is the
                    best." Nothing further was said upon the subject. The President expressed himself as
                    believing that the convention would be a notable one. He seemed to be pleased that there was to be
                    no contest over the ticket or platform, and that there was such widespread interest being taken in
                    it. The prospect of a large and enthusiastic convention, he thought, was a good sign for the future
                    of the Republican party; and he felt that such a convention would give strength to the
                    administration. He made no comment whatever upon himself as the central figure of the historic
                    event; his whole thought seemed to be centered upon the party which had honored him and the country
                    he was serving with all of his ability and power. I assured him that I would endeavor to see that
                    the platform was in harmony with his policies and administration. I congratulated him in advance
                    upon his assured nomination and election, and with his hearty thanks and good wishes I retired,
                    leaving him alone.16
            
            
               
                  15 John Davis Long (1838–1915) had been governor of 
                            Massachusetts
                         and a congressman in the 1880s. He was secretary of the navy from 1897 to 1902.
               
                  16 President McKinley regarded the possibility of Roosevelt's
                        nomination with some reserve. He was aware of the 
                            New York
                         governor's reputation for impetuosity and political unreliability, and he
                        knew of the opposition to Roosevelt among party conservatives. Temperamentally, he would have
                        preferred a less flamboyant spirit than Roosevelt, which Fairbanks certainly was, but he also
                        did not intend to interpose the White House in the way of the general wishes of the party. If
                        the genuine enthusiasm of the rank and file carried Roosevelt onto the ticket, he would accept
                        the result. Until that was inevitable, he explored and encouraged alternatives. Lewis L. Gould,
                            The Presidency of William McKinley (Lawrence, 
                            Kansas
                        , 1980), 215–18.
            
            
            
               WILLIAM MCKINLEY
               
               Courtesy Stark County Historical Society, Canton, 
                            Ohio
                        .
            
            I left for 
                        Philadelphia
                     the day following and arriving there found among many of my friends an impression that
                    I was to be the nominee for Vice President. Soon after reaching my hotel Harry New17 and many other friends from home called and said the nomination was coming to me if I would
                    accept. Some of my best friends favored and others opposed it. Those who advised against my taking
                    it did so for different reasons: some thought that it would interfere with possible future
                    preferment which some of my friends already had in mind; others did not think so, but felt that if I
                    resigned from the Senate it would precipitate confusion among Republicans in Indiana. The party in
                    our State was then united and harmonious and there was a natural and somewhat general anxiety that
                    nothing should be done which should put in jeopardy this happy condition.18
                    However, there was entire agreement upon every hand 
                  
                     17 Harry Stewart New (1858–1937) was a member of the
                            Indiana state senate in 1900. He was a 
                                United States
                             senator from 1917 to 1923 and postmaster general from 1923 to 1929.
                  
                     18 Fairbanks does not mention the factional tension that the rise of
                            Albert J. Beveridge produced in the Indiana Republican party. John Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge: American Nationalist (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971), 30–35, 72–74.
               
                     that whatever I might desire in regard to the matter would be
                    graciously accepted by all my friends in the State. Delegates and influential Republicans from other
                    States strongly urged me to be a candidate, some upon the distinct ground that with a friend in the
                    White House it would naturally put me in line for the succession, while others maintained that I
                    should accept so that the President would be assured of a Vice President in thorough accord with his
                    policies and in entire personal harmony with him.
            A notable banquet was given Senator Hanna and many others who were delegates to the convention by
                    some of the prominant [sic] citizens of 
                        Philadelphia
                     at the Union League Club two or three nights before the assembling of the convention. I
                    was among the number upon the favored list. The subject of the Vice Presidency was frequently
                    suggested about the table and informal remarks by several speakers pointedly asserted that I should
                    be nominated; in fact this seemed to be the only matter still unsettled. I took it all
                    good-naturedly but made no response other than to shake my head. I was embarrassed and scarcely knew
                    how to handle myself, under the circumstances. I did not wish to seem to be either obdurate or
                    covetous of something which my better jusgment [judgment] did not entirely approve. No one
                    appreciated the great honor more highly than I. I was naturally flattered by the mention of my name
                    for it [came?] from so many influential sources and with such obvious heartiness. My duty to my
                    party in Indiana was something which I could not lightly disregard; and the un-wisdom as it then
                    seemed to me of nominating some one so near to the home of the President weighed heavily with me. My
                    personal inclination was toward the nomination -I regarded it a high honor -but my deliberate, sober
                    sense of duty was against it. My personal friends understood full well how I regarded the matter.
            The platform engaged the larger part of my attention. I was very anxious that no false note should be
                    struck and that it should be worthy of the occasion. There were several drafts of specific
                    resolutions and two or three complete platforms had been prepared for consideration. Although I was
                    busily engaged upon the platform, I was not beyond the reach of the Vice Presidential gossip.
                    Delegates from other states were pursuing me, urging me to stand for the nomination. There was a
                    very strong and decided opposition to the nomination of Governor Roosevelt of 
                        New York
                    . He was circulating actively through the hotel lobbies and frequently appeared in the
                    headquarters of different state delegations, wearing an army hat and awakening  enthusiasm wherever he went. He protested frequently that he was not a
                    candidate and that he would not accept a nomination if it were tendered. When it was reported to 
                        Wayne
                     MacVeagh,19 former Attorney General of the 
                        United States
                    , that the Governor was circulating among the delegates, vowing his unwillingness to
                    accept a nomination if tendered, he dryly observed: "Is the Governor wearing a rough rider
                    hat?" And upon being assured that he was, added: "That's an acceptance
                    hat."
            Senator Platt20 of 
                        New York
                     insisted upon the nomination of Governor Roosevelt. He demanded it in the interest of
                    Republican party politics in 
                        New York
                    . Senator Quay21 of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     co-operated with him in his effort to make the 
                        New York
                     Governor the nominee for Vice President. It was generally understood that Senator
                    Quay's activity was due in a degree to his desire to favor his old-time friend and party
                    co-worker, Senator Platt, but more especially to embarrass and defeat if possible the wishes of
                    Senator Hanna, who had opposed his being seated in the Senate of the 
                        United States
                     upon the certificate of the Governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Senator Hanna, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, one of the most
                    masterful and resourceful political managers of his day, the bosom friend of the President, was upon
                    the ground, marshalling his forces to nominate a Vice President who would be entirely acceptable to
                    President McKinley.
            I had discussed some of the features of the platform with the Senator in 
                        Washington
                    , but the subject of the Vice Presidential nomination was never mentioned between us,
                    except that the Senator advised me that he had urged Secretary Bliss of 
                        New York
                     to accept and had made a special trip to his home in 
                        New York City
                     to plead with Mrs. Bliss to consent that the nomination might be made.
            On Sunday or Monday afternoon before the nomination I called at Senator Hanna's headquarters
                    to see him with respect to a ship subsidy plank which was being strongly urged and which it seemed
                    to me was unwise.22 The central and middle 
                  
                     19 Isaac 
                                Wayne
                             MacVeagh (1833–1917) had been attorney general under James A.
                            Garfield and 
                                Chester
                             Alan Arthur in 1881.
                  
                     20 Thomas Collier Platt (1833–1910), the notorious
                            "Easy Boss" of Republican affairs in 
                                New York
                             State, was a senator in 1881 and from 1897 to 1909.
                  
                     21 Matthew Stanley Quay (1833–1904), longtime power in
                            Republican politics in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , had been appointed by that state's governor to the Senate after the
                            legislature failed to elect anyone in 1899. In April, 1900, the Senate declined to seat him,
                            with Hanna's vote a decisive element in the result.
                  
                     22 The conversation probably took place on June 17, 1900, a Sunday.
                            The proposal to subsidize American merchant shipping was very unpopular in Indiana. See
                            James A. Mount to Fairbanks, February 26, 1900, Fairbanks Papers.
               
                    
                    
                  IS HE SETTING THE SWITCH FOR THE ROOSEVELT FLYER? From the Tribune (
                                New York
                            ).
                  POLITICAL CARTOONISTS WERE INTRIGUED
                            BY
                            THE MANEUVERING SURROUNDING
                            THE VICE-PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
                  
               
                    
                  CHAIRMAN HANNA TAKES A STROLL DOWN POLITICAL AVENUE. (From sketches on the spot
                            by the 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            Inquirer cartoonist, Mr. McAuley.)
                  Reproduced from The American Monthly Review of Reviews, XXII
                            (July. 1900), 27. 28.
               
                     west was strongly against it and its adoption meant the
                    introduction of a plank which would lead to sharp division. The election of President McKinley was
                    already assured and I thought and many others agreed that we should not project into the campaign an
                    issue which would awaken sharp controversy in our own ranks.
            I knew that the Senator was strongly in favor of a ship subsidy declaration. He had given the
                    subject, as he gave to all questions of public moment, very thorough consideration; and I wished to
                    advise him of the drift of sentiment and to get his consent if possible to the omission of any
                    specific pledge in behalf of a subsidy. As soon as I reached his rooms I found a great crowd waiting
                    to see him. I was immediately invited to enter by his private secretary, Elmer 
                        Dover
                    .23 Upon entering a very large room I found it filled to its
                    capacity. Senator Hanna met me and we stepped to an open window where he said: "We have met
                    to consider the selection of a nominee for Vice President, and we have just decided upon you and we
                    urge you to accept." I judged from the number assembled that the various States were
                        represented.24 He then proceeded to say that Governor Roosevelt wanted the
                    nomination but "we do not want him to have it. I have just come from a conference with him;
                    there was some very plain talk. I had been wanting to see him but it was difficult for me to do so.
                    At last I got hold of him and said: "Teddy, I think you owe something to President
                    McKinley, and that you should consider his wishes. Under the circumstances I feel that I have a
                    right to talk to you and talk to you plainly." Governor Roosevelt replied that he was under
                    obligations to Mr. McKinley and that the Senator could frankly talk to him. Said he:
                    "Senator, I am not a candidate for Vice President, and I don't want the
                    nomination. What I want is to be Governor of 
                        New York
                    ." "Then," said Senator Hanna, "byG —,
                    Teddy, if that is so, why do you allow Platt and others to continue to organize for your
                    nomination?" The Governor replied that he had told them that they must not do so, and
                    reiterated his opposition to the nomination. "Then you are not a candidate?"
                    inquired Senator Hanna; "No," said Governor Roosevelt, "I am
                    not." "Then you will not be a candidate will you?" "No; I will
                    not. But, Senator, if they nominate me notwithstanding, what shall I do? How could I help
                    it?" "By G—, Teddy, you know," said Senator Hanna,
                    "that there is 
                  
                     23 Elmer 
                                Dover
                             (1873–1940) was Hanna's private secretary from 1897 until
                            the senator's death in 1904.
                  
                     24 Olcott, Life of William McKinley, II, 274, quotes
                            Fairbanks at this point.
               
                     nothing in this country which can compel a man to run for an
                    office who doesn't want it. You know that nobody can compel you or me to be a candidate for
                    anything if we are determined we shall not be. If you are nominated all that you will have to do
                    will be to rise in your place and decline the nomination. If you tell the convention that you will
                    not have it they will not try to nominate you; and if it should nominate you and you tell them that
                    you will not accept, there will be no danger of your being forced into the race." Then the
                    Senator added: "Teddy, if you are nominated will you rise in your place and flatly
                    decline?" "I will, Senator," he replied. They then shook hands cordially
                    and Senator Hanna withdrew.25 After the Senator made this statement as to the
                    interview he said: "We will nominate you; that is our desire." While the
                    suggestion was unexpected and very flattering to me, I said that I appreciated the situation fully;
                    "the honor is a great one and I regret that I cannot see my way clear to consent to be a
                    candidate. It goes without saying that I would be glad to render any personal service to the
                    President or to yourself, but it has seemed to me that I should not be a candidate, and that indeed
                    it is unnecessary that I should be. I have reflected upon the matter since my name has been
                    suggested and I have come to the conclusion that I ought not to be a candidate, and that it is not
                    necessary in the interest of the President that I should be. I am sorry that I cannot come to the
                    same conclusion that you and other good friends have reached."
            No reference was made to the platform, which was the object of my visit, and I returned immediately
                    to my hotel.
            
               
                  25 Olcott, Life of William McKinley, II, 276, ends the
                        quotation of Fairbanks at this point.
            
            
            Postscript
            Hanna's effort to stop Roosevelt's nomination failed. On Sunday evening, June 17,
                    President McKinley refused to assist Hanna; over the phone he told the senator that "The
                    choice of the convention will be his choice; he has no advice to give." The next day
                    Roosevelt issued a statement of withdrawal, but it left open the possibility that he would accept.
                    Once again, on June 19, McKinley backed away from an anti-Roosevelt posture. "The
                    Administration wants the choice of the convention." That choice came on June 21 when
                    Roosevelt was nominated.26
            
            Could Fairbanks have been named in the face of the pro-Roosevelt tide at the convention? Had the
                    administration and the president pushed him earlier in the spring, he could have developed some
                    strength. It is unlikely, however, that the colorless Indiana politician would have been as
                    attractive as the charismatic Roosevelt. Fairbanks's own caution and indecision settled the
                    matter. Four years later he would be the vice-presidential candidate of the GOP, but he never came
                    close to the presidency again.
            
               
                  26 Gould, Presidency of William McKinley, 218.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               A Pictorial History of Indiana. By Dwight W. Hoover, with the assistance of Jane
                    Rodman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1980. Pp. 304. $19.95.)
            The ability of Hoosiers to incorporate contradictory elements into a distinctive regional culture has
                    long fascinated observers. At least since Meredith Nicholson's turn-of-the-century study,
                        The Hoosiers, every generation has attempted to place Indiana in its proper
                    contexts. Traditionally, most of these attempts have been literary in character. But recently we
                    have enjoyed a number of fresh insights made possible through the use of non-traditional methods and
                    new sources. Together they have contributed substantially to the current revival of interest in
                    American regionalism.
            The Hoover-Rodman volume is an intriguing example of many of the possibilities and some of the
                    problems inherent in one of these approaches, the use of the visual record. With over nine hundred
                    illustrations it attempts to capture the elusive spirit of the nineteenth state from prehistory to
                    the present. Drawing primarily upon a dozen major library and archival collections, while adding a
                    few elements from smaller private holdings, the book explores the range of Indiana's
                    pictorial record.
            Compelling individual illustrations abound. A group portrait of pottery workers at 
                        Cannelton
                    , where bearded patriarchs mingle with bemused apprentices, speaks eloquently of the
                    transition in lifestyles. Photos of the 1940 and 1953 Indiana University basketball teams say more
                    than many words about the comparative impact of depression and prosperity upon youth. And stark
                    vistas of farms and crossroads allow the isolation of an earlier rural world to emerge forcefully.
            The dust jacket blurb presents the volume as a "family portrait," and the
                    illustrations indeed show a preference for group scenes illustrating all manner of work and play.
                    Some examples of Indiana art supplement the early chapters, and a few cartoons are interspersed
                    throughout. But this is primarily a photographic record. Perhaps for budget reasons, almost all of
                    the illustrations are in black and white: that is a bit of a disappointment, especially given the
                    promise held forth by the frontispiece, a color reproduction of Theodore Groll's famous 
                        Indianapolis
                     street scene. Reproduction quality is high, although in half a dozen places the
                    battered condition of an original is reflected in its copy.
            
            Hoover complements the illustrations with a narrative text strong in economic and social commentary.
                    Some readers will quarrel with his definition (p. 64) of a Hoosier as a "rough
                    countryman," but most will enjoy his remarkable powers of description and compression.
                    Compression implies selection, and selectivity here is quite good. The most remarkable omission in
                    the text is the history of the visual record itself. By their skill, artists and photographers
                    shaped this pictorial imagery in both conscious and unconscious ways. It would be fascinating to
                    learn more of these people so that we might know how their visions of Hoosiers and the Hoosier
                    experience helped to shape our own. Knowing more of them might also help explain the curious lack of
                    portraits of women, immigrants, and minorities in several chapters.
            Hoover's best chapters, as well as the book's greatest emphasis, lie in the years
                    between 1880 and 1925. There, as the state moves from an agrarian to an industrial base, the author
                    offers an excellent definition of the changing sense of "place" within Indiana.
                    Surveys of this type are notoriously prone to minor errors, but (apart from advancing Charlie
                    Halleck's first congressional victory from 1935 to 1932) this book is remarkably free of
                    them. Hoover and Rodman, in short, offer an absorbing introduction to a lively topic, encouraging us
                    to reinterpret our past by viewing it once more.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                George W. Geib
         
         
            
               Indiana & the Old Northwest: An Exhibition in Honor of the One Hundred and
                        Fiftieth Anniversary of the Indiana Historical Society, November 1980 -February 1981. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1980. Pp. 55. Illustrations, maps, appendix. Paperbound,
                    $2.00.)
            This slender volume, well illustrated and handsome in appearance, is far more than a catalogue for an
                    anniversary exhibit. It does indeed serve to identify and explain the thirty-seven items featured by
                    the Indiana Historical Society in its 150th birthday exhibition and to illustrate twenty-one of
                    them, two in color. More important in a longer view, it demonstrates once again just how rich the
                    Society's holdings are for everyone interested in the history of Indiana and the Old
                    Northwest.
            From Samuel de Champlain's Voyages (
                        Paris
                    , 1619) to Thomas Say's American Conchologist (
                        New Harmony
                    , 1830–1838)—here are some of the most important books, maps, and
                         manuscripts that made this great interior region of North
                    America known to the wider Atlantic world. Most of the items are rare works, often listed in
                    bibliographies but seldom available to readers. One pamphlet is unique—the only surviving
                    copy of The Life and Confession of James Hudson (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1825), the first white man executed in America for the murder of an Indian,
                    "written and published at the request of the deceased."
            Of itself this catalogue has permanent value for librarians and rare book dealers, or as an elegant
                    souvenir of the exhibit. For students of history its greatest service is to call attention to the
                    valuable library of the Indiana Historical Society. A similar exhibit for items published since 1838
                    would be a welcome elaboration of this theme.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            South Bend
                        
                Patrick J. Furlong
         
         
            
               Lew Wallace: Militant Romantic. By Robert E. Morsberger and Katharine M.
                    Morsberger. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1980. Pp. xii, 560. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $17.95.)
            Lew Wallace, one of the most fascinating Hoosiers, has been in need of an objective, scholarly
                    biography for a long time. The only reliable work on Wallace was Irving McKee's short,
                    undocumented biography, published in 1947. Wallace's autobiography was less than half
                    complete when he died, and his wife Susan chronicled the remaining forty-five years of his life in
                    200 pages. As with most autobiographies, Wallace's, although informative and entertaining,
                    is self-serving—an important consideration when studying the man's life.
            Robert Morsberger and Katharine Morsberger have attempted and for the most part succeeded in
                    producing a definitive one-volume biography of this man who played an important role in American
                    military, literary, political, diplomatic, and religious history. It is unfortunate that this book
                    cannot be given unqualified praise; however, it has some serious weaknesses. The most disturbing is
                    its lack of adequate documentation. Although the bibliography is impressive, the end notes are much
                    less so. In the first eleven chapters the authors rely exclusively on Wallace's
                    autobiography in more than half of their notes. Also, the authors depended almost entirely for their
                    primary source material on the Lew Wallace letters in the Wallace Collection of the Indiana
                    Historical Society Library. Although this is a fine collection whose use is greatly  simplified by an exhaustive calendar, it, like the autobiography, is
                    one-sided, and events are seen only through Wallace's eyes. The danger of overuse of such
                    sources is obvious. A flagrant example concerns the battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     in April, 1862. The authors use the autobiography to substantiate Wallace's
                    forty-year claim that he was the scapegoat for U.S. Grant's failure. The episode is by no
                    means as free of debate as the Morsbergers, with their limited source material, imply. Knowing how 
                        Shiloh
                     haunted Wallace until the end of his life, they should have been more cautious in
                    accepting his views on the subject.
            Despite these criticisms, the book has strong points. It is well organized and very readable.
                    Although the work is arranged topically, one has little trouble following Wallace's myriad
                    and often overlapping activities. When dealing with his governorship of 
                        New Mexico
                    , for example, the authors manage to treat Wallace's writing of Ben Hur, a large portion of which was done in Sante Fe, without letting that topic
                    interfere with discussion of his territorial rule. Ben Hur is saved for the next
                    chapter, where the emphasis shifts from the military and politics to literature. In addition, the
                    authors give excellent critical analyses of Wallace's writings. Finally, although the book
                    is inadequately documented, a check of the sources shows it to be substantially correct in fact and
                    interpretation. In short, this biography, flawed as it is, is an improvement on McKee and more
                    reliable than Wallace's autobiography.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Raymond L. Shoemaker
         
         
            
               The Road Taken. By Lee Norvelle. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Foundation, 1980. Pp. 349. Illustrations, index.
                    $10.00.)
            The first half of Lee Norvelle's autobiography tells the remarkable story of a northern 
                        Kentucky
                     farm kid who resumed grade school at age nineteen—after spending years at
                    home helping his parents farm—and with considerable effort and much help from a number of
                    teachers at Asbury College, Taylor University, and Indiana University (
                        Bloomington
                    ), finished his B.A. degree in psychology ten years later. Today's reader must
                    marvel at Norvelle's persistence and willingness to work at a variety of hard jobs in those
                    harder times in order to get the education he sought as a foundation for teaching speech, coaching
                    debate, and producing theater.
            
            The second half of the book is devoted primarily to Norvelle's struggle to establish theater
                    as a legitimate academic field at Indiana University, which now is the home of one of the
                    country's finest university theater programs, largely because of Norvelle's
                    persistence as he fought conservative administrators each step along the way.
            This part of Norvelle's story is disappointing, though. We get too much detail about petty
                    bureaucratic squabbles, too many amusing little anecdotes; nowhere are the author's views
                    on theater discussed. For forty years Norvelle was a pioneer in American educational theater. But
                    readers look in vain in this memoir for his views on his life's work, his field, his
                    causes. Why was he so dedicated to university theater? What sorts of theater did he especially love?
                    What did he learn about directing and teaching that he might have passed along to us?
            And his publisher should hire an editor; nearly every page contains an ungrammatical construction, a
                    misspelling, a punctuation error, or a typo.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                James A. Stegenga
         
         
            
               Preservation Comes of Age: From 
                            Williamsburg
                         to the National Trust, 1926–1949. By Charles B. Hosmer, Jr. Two
                    volumes. (
                        Charlottesville
                    : University Press of 
                        Virginia
                    , for the Preservation Press of the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the 
                        United States
                    , 1981. Pp. xiii, 1291. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Set,
                    $37.50.)
            Charles B. Hosmer, Jr., states modestly in his introduction to Preservation Comes of
                    Age that in this work "there has been an attempt to touch much more than the surface
                    of the story" (p. 8). There can be little doubt of his success in "getting beneath
                    the surface" in chronicling the historic preservation movement during its adolescent years.
                    In this immense opus, which required over fifteen years of research, Hosmer provides a satisfying
                    account of nearly all of preservation's many facets during the second quarter of the
                    twentieth century.
            The book begins with John D. Rockefeller, Jr.'s reconstruction of Colonial 
                        Williamsburg
                    , probably the period's single most influential private preservation project,
                    and then describes other towns and villages "assembled" by philanthropists
                    interested in history: Henry Ford's 
                        Greenfield
                     Village, Stephen Clark's Farmer's Museum at Cooperstown, 
                        New York
                    , and Albert Wells's Old Sturbridge Village in 
                        Massachusetts
                    . At the  regional level, the author describes the
                    principal preservation organization during the period, the Society for the Preservation of New 
                        England
                     Antiquities (SPNEA). Indiana, 
                  Illinois, California
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     serve as examples of early state leadership in preserving historic sites.
            Hosmer next concentrates on the involvement of the federal government (specifically the National Park
                    Service of the Department of the Interior) in historic preservation. The second volume concludes
                    with chapters on the evolution of professionalism in the preservation movement, differing schools of
                    restoration philosophy, and modifications in preservation theory during the period discussed.
            Beyond its obvious character as a compendium of case histories on historic preservation, Preservation Comes of Age makes other important contributions as a history of the period
                    from the 1920s to the 1940s. For instance, in using a particular organization as an example of
                    preservation practice, Hosmer sometimes furnishes the only published historical account of the
                    organization and its endeavors.
            In every chapter the author presents vivid biographical portraits of some especially influential
                    figures in the movement, including W.A.R. Goodwin and Kenneth Chorley of 
                        Williamsburg
                    ; Horace M. Albright, Ronald F. Lee, Charles E. Peterson, and Newton B. Drury of the
                    National Park Service; William Sumner Appleton of the SPNEA; Fiske Kimball of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Museum; and Colonel Richard Lieber, father of the Indiana state park system.
            Hosmer reveals Lieber as an influential figure nationally in historic preservation councils. The
                    former 
                        Indianapolis
                     brewer launched one of the first state historic sites programs in the 
                        United States
                    , purchasing the J.F.D. Lanier Mansion in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, reconstructing a pioneer village at Spring Mill State Park, and restoring the
                    Corydon statehouse. In the late 1930s, Lieber served on the National Park Service's
                    Advisory Board. There he exhibited a radical philosophy of preservation by opposing reconstruction
                    of historic buildings and conjectural restorations—two philosophical positions that have
                    since become established tenets of National Park Service policy.
            Historians may find of interest Hosmer's skillful use of taped interviews as a major primary
                    source for the book. Although he utilizes a large number of documentary sources, the author fills in
                    gaps in written information by drawing on eighty-five interviews. Document and interview are nimbly
                    interwoven throughout the text. Quotations from interviews add 
                    an appreciated element of authoritative commentary to the events being described.
            Hosmer's primary audience will surely be the preservationists of the country. They will
                    enjoy the multitude of case histories depicting preservation battles of the era, the
                    author's heavy emphasis on individual champions of preservation who influenced events, and
                    the generous use of contemporary photographs illustrating the text. Within the preservation
                    community, the book should have special appeal to preservation educators and their students. Too
                    long has the field of historic preservation lacked a textbook on its twentieth-century origins. Preservation Comes of Age has supplied that need bountifully.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Historic Preservation Commission, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                James A. Glass
         
         
            
               Joseph Nicollet and His Map. By Martha Coleman Bray. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : American Philosophical Society, 1980. Pp. xv, 300. Illustrations, notes, index, maps.
                    $15.00.)
            The subject of this study, Joseph Nicolas Nicollet (1786–1843), cartographer, explorer,
                    and scientist, has long languished in such historical obscurity that his name is sometimes confused
                    with that of Jean Nicolet (1598–1642), a French explorer of North America. However, with
                    the publication of Martha Coleman Bray's well-written and thoroughly researched volume on
                    Nicollet and his work, he has been rescued from this obscurity, his achievements have been
                    reemphasized, and, for the first time, his "Map of the Hydrographical Basin of the Upper
                        Mississippi River" (1843) has been made accessible to the general
                    reader.
            Born in Cluses, Department of Savoy, 
                        France
                    , Nicollet was the son of a watch-finisher of modest means. He received training in
                    mathematics, but he achieved fame and received awards for his work in astronomy. From 1817 to 1830
                    he was secretary of the 
                        Paris
                     Observatory, and during most of that period he was also a professor of mathematics at a
                    prominent 
                        Paris
                     college. After he was financially ruined in 1830 in the collapse of the Bourbon
                    Restoration, Nicollet fled his native country in late 1831, never to return. After arriving in the 
                        United States
                    , he settled in the 
                        Baltimore
                     area and was befriended by a number of prominent scientists. In 1832 he took the first
                    of a series of trips, beginning with a tour of the South and culminating in 1836–1839
                    with an exploration of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    
                     river systems in the upper Midwest, that led to the preparation
                    of his greatest work, a detailed map of the river and lake system in the northern portion of the
                    Midwest. Nicollet's 1836–1839 explorations are well illustrated in a route map
                    that accompanies the volume, and the 1843 map is reproduced in a superb thirty-by-thirty-five-inch
                    facsimile that is suitable for framing.
            A few minor errors were detected in Bray's book. In the sentence "…
                    William Herschel of 
                        England
                    , the son of the famous John …" (p. 20) the names should be
                    reversed. Also, there is no page citation to William Herschel in the index and no reference to page
                    20 in the index for John Herschel. On page 26 Pierre Simon de Laplace's time of death is
                    incorrectly given as 1825, but on page 37 it is correctly stated as 1827. On page 50 Ferdinand R.
                    Hassler's first name is incorrectly given as "Frederick," and in the
                    index his last name is listed as "Hessler."
            The index is adequate, but more subject entries and subentries would have made it more complete and
                    useful. The illustrations are well chosen and enhance the textual matter, but some of them, such as
                    on pages 66, 150–51, and 182, might have been expanded and placed vertically on the page
                    to bring out more detail. The failure to include a bibliography is particularly regrettable because
                    the author drew upon many sources in researching and writing this book. In the footnote citations to
                    manuscripts it would have been helpful to the reader if, after the initial citation to a document,
                    the source of that document had been repeated in subsequent footnotes.
            Despite these few technical shortcomings, Bray has written a book that is a welcome addition to the
                    literature on western exploration, the history of the upper Mississippi valley,
                    and the history of science and cartography.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Douglas E. Clanin
         
         
            
               Politics and Ideology in the Age of the Civil War. By Eric Foner. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1980. Pp. 250. Notes, index. $15.95.)
            Under the banner of Politics and Ideology in the Age of the Civil War, Eric Foner
                    has mustered seven essays aimed at returning to center stage in American historical writing
                    "the fundamental reference point in the lives of nineteenth-century Americans,"
                    the Civil War. The book is a sort of declaration of  war on the
                    new social history which deals with such intimately domestic subjects over such long periods of time
                    that it leaves even as cataclysmic a political event as the Civil War unexplained and nearly
                    unnoticed.
            Some of the essays are rather old. The one on "The Causes of the American Civil
                    War" (1974) will remind readers how much they have assimilated from Foner over the years.
                    "Politics, Ideology, and the Origins of the American Civil War" (1975) has stood
                    the test of time less well. Foner's view that the ideological politics of the 1850s
                    replaced the non-ideological or consensus politics of the Jacksonian era is now dated. He quotes
                    political scientist Frank Sorauf on the nature of ideological politics: "The party of
                    extensive ideology develops in and reflects the society in which little consensus prevails on basic
                    social values and institutions" (p. 36). Political historians borrowed the tools to study
                    politics from political scientists like Sorauf who worked within the assumptions of the consensus or
                    "end of ideology" school. The historians used the tools to find conflict, but all
                    they found was conflict between the ethnic groups which voted for the parties. They did not find
                    ideological conflict between the parties themselves because they unconsciously absorbed the
                    political scientists' hostility to ideology. Thus they ignored the obvious ideological
                    distinctions between the development-minded but anti-expansionist Whigs and the nostalgically
                    agrarian and expansionist Democrats. Increasingly, political historians like Michael F. Holt are
                    studying party ideology, as it is clear that one major factor which caused the collapse of the
                    second American party system was the failure of the Whigs to distinguish their ideology clearly from
                    that of the Democrats in the 1850s. The kind of ideology but not ideology itself is a distinguishing
                    mark of the parties of the third American party system which Foner studies.
            The two essays on the antislavery movement are excellent. "Abolitionism and the Labor
                    Movement in Ante-bellum America" (1980) and "Racial Attitudes of the 
                        New York
                     Free Soilers" (1965) clearly delineate the limitations of the antislavery
                    movement without at the same time losing a proper appreciation for the accomplishments of the
                    movement. These essays are balanced, fair minded, and, as always with Foner, well written.
            The last half of the book is less satisfactory. "Reconstruction and the Crisis of Free
                    Labor" (new in this book) is an attempt to apply Foner's proven ability for
                    brilliant synthesis to the problem of Reconstruction. He describes a subtle triangular  conflict among the freedmen, who ignored Adam Smith and chose to work
                    less instead of more as free men; the planters, who insisted that blacks were too lazy to work
                    without legal force; and the northern capitalists, who disliked legal force but were horrified by
                    the freedmen's desire for subsistence farms instead of commercial agriculture. The essay
                    fails because it explains Reconstruction within the states better than it does national
                    Reconstruction policy. Foner's attempt to attribute the failure of Reconstruction to the
                    Republicans' gradual abandonment of the dynamic free labor ideology of the 1850s for
                    "respectability, the Union, and business" depends mostly on the coincidence that
                    1877 marked both the end of Reconstruction and the beginning of the use of military force to end
                    labor unrest.
            The essay is valuable, though, as a demarcation point in Reconstruction studies. Foner notes that the
                    old Dunningite and racist views of the period are dead but that nothing equally comprehensive and
                    coherent has replaced them. It is good, too, that a scholar with his sound credentials has at last
                    said that "our preoccupation with the racial politics of Reconstruction" has
                    blinded us to other interesting aspects of the period. In his sense that Unionism better explains
                    the scalawags than anything else, Foner approaches a promising new view of Reconstruction history as
                    a problem of loyalty rather than one of race, labor, party, or constitutional rights.
            Foner's essay on Thaddeus Stevens (1974) is less ambitious and less interesing, and the
                    concluding article on the Irish Land League (1978), a full 25 percent of the book, is simply
                    irrelevant. It has nothing at all to do with the Civil War era.
            Book titles are not to be ignored. At most, only 75 percent of this book is on the subject. In a
                    sense, none of the book deals with the essential subject. Despite its title, there is not a single
                    essay on the Civil War, only articles on its coming and aftermath. The book so many hoped Foner
                    would write, the book on ideology in the Civil War itself, remains unwritten.
            
               Louis A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum, Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                Mark E. Neely, Jr.
         
         
         
            
               Woman and Temperance: The Quest for Power and Liberty, 1873–1900. By
                    Ruth Bordin. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1981. Pp. xviii, 221. Illustrations, appendix, tables, notes,
                    index. $17.50.)
            
               Woman and Temperance is an institutional history of the Woman's Christian
                    Temperance Union (WCTU) from its origins in the Woman's Crusade of 1873–1874
                    through its heyday under Frances Willard (1879 to 1898) and a few years beyond. It is the first
                    published book-length study of the Union prepared outside the WCTU. Bordin, a research affiliate of
                    the University of 
                        Michigan
                    's Bentley Historical Library, argues that "it was in the temperance
                    movement that large numbers of women were politicized, and it was through temperance that they
                    experienced wider spheres of public activity in the nineteenth century" (p. xviii).
            Based primarily on WCTU records recently made accessible on microfilm through the cooperative efforts
                    of the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Collections, the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, and the WCTU, Woman and Temperance is the first
                    scholarly publication to show in some detail WCTU's growth and broadening programs under
                    Willard's leadership. The Union was eventually organized at the state level in every state
                    and at the local level in more than half the counties of the 
                        United States
                    . By 1890 it published the world's largest women's newspaper, the
                    weekly Union Signal, with a circulation of nearly 100,000. Confronted with a broad
                    array of social problems associated with alcohol abuse, Willard told the Union women to "Do
                    Everything" to ameliorate them. Following this policy WCTU had developed by 1896
                    thirty-nine departments, of which twenty-five dealt with nontemperance issues like child labor, the
                    franchise, prison work, social purity, kindergartens, Sabbatarianism, and peace, along with less
                    weighty matters such as dress reform. Willard, who had won the presidency in 1879 by urging woman
                    suffrage ("the home protection ballot"), also brought the Union into a modest alliance with the
                    Knights of Labor, to the dismay of many of her followers. Willard also led the union into politics,
                    endorsing the Prohibition party in 1884 and 1888, and she attempted unsuccessfully to establish a
                    new reform party in 1892 composed of populist and prohibitionist elements.
            Although the general outlines of WCTU's work in this period have long been available in Mary
                    Earhart Dillon's biography of Frances Willard (1944), Bordin's book fills a need
                    for a fresh focus and detailed analysis of the Union's work. Combing  through the Union Signal and annual NWCTU convention
                    minutes and drawing upon unpublished studies of various state unions, Bordin portrays a vital,
                    ambitious organization developing local leaders and involving members in a wide variety of social
                    and civic programs.
            Sometimes Bordin's claims seem too broad: her assertion that "in the 1880s the WCTU
                    was the major organizer and supporter of organized charity in most metropolitan areas" (p.
                    14) is nowhere supported in the text. There is also something disquieting about Bordin's
                    comment that "the Union ended the century with a large proportion of its membership
                    committed to militant feminism, equal rights, and full participation in the political
                    process" (p. 116). To use the catchwords of the present-day woman's movement to
                    describe the attitudes of "the White Ribbon Army" of 1900 is surely to
                    misunderstand the latter and to evade the real problem of seeking to understand how the world and
                    the woman's movement have changed in this century.
            Still, Bordin is to be commended for her study. Along with Karen Blair's new work on the
                    American woman's club movement, Woman and Temperance demonstrates how
                    widespread the tenets of social feminism were in the nineteenth century and again challenges the
                    stereotype of the Victorian woman.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Lana Ruegamer
         
         
            
               Bishop Martin Marty: "The Black Robe Lean
                    Chief." By Robert F. Karolevitz. (Yankton, S.D.: Benedictine Sisters of Sacred Heart
                    Convent, 1980. Pp. 156. Illustrations, bibliography, index. $9.45.)
            This is a historical biography of Martin Marty (1834–1896), one of the first pioneer
                    missionaries to the Sioux Indians. It tells the story of the Swiss-born Benedictine monk who in 1860
                    left the monastery of Maria Einsiedeln near the town of Schwyz to become, in 1871, the first abbot
                    of the then St. Meinrad monastery and seminary in Indiana (now St. Meinrad Archabbey). Eventually
                    Marty served as the first bishop of the Dakota Territory.
            In 1876, two weeks after the defeat of Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer at the Battle of the Little
                    Big Horn River, the forty-two-year-old abbot of St. Meinrad made final plans to travel to the
                    Standing Rock Indian Reservation in the Dakotas. After four years of work on the frontier, Marty was
                    consecrated  as bishop of the Dakota Territory on February 1,
                    1880, at St. Ferdinand Church, Ferdinand, Indiana.
            The book is divided into three general sections: three chapters on the early, formative years in
                    Schwyz and Einsiedeln, four chapters on the Indiana years at St. Meinrad, and five chapters on the
                    Dakota years.
            Liberally supported by anecdotes, the book portrays an enigmatic person: often quiet and shy but
                    dynamic and intense; warm and friendly but at the same time autocratic and forceful in leadership
                    roles; traditional but able to depart from customary procedures to meet the needs of the moment.
                    Marty's frontier travels both in Dakota and to and from Indiana by horse, paddlewheel
                    steamer, stagecoach, wagon, and steam locomotive, along with his efforts to recruit more
                    missionaries, raise funds, build churches and schools, and personally minister to the Indians and
                    homesteaders of the northern prairies are graphically portrayed. Marty's meetings in 
                        Canada
                     with Sitting Bull, the belligerent Hunkpapa medicine man; his encounters with Katherine
                    Drexel in ministering to the Indians; and his work with Indian Agent James McLaughlin also are
                    recounted.
            Archival resources, including photographs from the Sacred Heart Convent Archives, Yankton, have been
                    liberally utilized. The work is a generally objective and balanced rendition of frontier history.
            
               Ball State University, Munice Norma J. Fultz
         
         
            
               City People: The Rise of Modern City Culture in Nineteenth-Century America. By
                    Gunther Barth. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1980. Pp. viii, 289. Illustrations, notes, sources, index.
                    $19.95.)
            Gunther Barth believes that a unique American urban society developed in the period from 1830 to 1910
                    and forced urban dwellers to find new ways to achieve happiness, security, and identity.
                    Specifically, he argues that the apartment house, the metropolitan press, the department store, the
                    ball park, and the vaudeville house channeled the freedom and anarchy of modern cities into a
                    culture that provided "a response to major problems of metropolitan existence as perceived
                    by large groups of people: the lack of identity and the need for communication; women's
                    urge to partake in big-city life and men's search for leisure as part of the urban
                    existence; and everyone's hope to be recognized as individual in a crowd" (p. 23).
                    The culture developed by these institutions disappeared with the advent of  the automobile. To demonstrate his position Barth creates what he calls
                    an "intellectual construct from the empirical evidence" (p. 4).
            The apartment was the solution to the problem of privacy. A common feature in European cities,
                    especially 
                        Paris
                    , the apartment took hold as downtown real estate prices made the cost of single family
                    housing prohibitive. Americans also rejected the boarding house with its shared kitchen and bath
                    facilities as lacking in privacy. American units differed from those in Europe by catering to one
                    economic group per unit. Inclusion of the latest conveniences such as lights and elevators aided in
                    making apartments a success.
            The metropolitan press, transcending the partisan politics and dull business news of earlier papers,
                    became the critical link in large cities. These newspapers reduced isolation by coining a new urban
                    shorthand common to all while presenting the diversity of the city in new features such as sports,
                    human interest, and women's columns. They instructed the uninitiated and offered
                    information on all facets of city life. Special-interest sections appealed to "people whose
                    experience of modernity taught them to live life in segments and not as a totality" (p.
                    80). The press also encouraged egalitarianism and the leveling concept of the pursuit of money, and
                    it made possible the reduction of isolation and the emergence of a recognizable urban community.
            The department stores also instructed. They appeared simultaneously in Europe and the 
                        United States
                    , but in America they were the special province of women and, in fact, brought women to
                    the previously male-dominated downtown. Sales, advertisements, female clerks, and the variety of
                    services and goods had a leveling effect, bringing women of different classes together. The stores
                    taught women the art of fashion and allowed them to participate in urban culture.
            The ball park in similar fashion educated men in the ways of city life. The Social Gospel
                    movement's advocacy of recreation as a legitimate activity encouraged mass participation in
                    spectator sports. A number of sports, but especially baseball, taught about competition, efficiency,
                    excellence, and the official rules which governed both play and work.
            Finally, vaudeville, a fusion of several entertainment forms such as the variety show (albeit without
                    its bad reputation), served to educate by fostering new relationships between men and women and by
                    encouraging fashionable attire and the search for monetary success. Urban themes and ethnic
                    stereotypes  pervaded the presentations. Capturing the diversity
                    of urban life and exploring the issues faced by urban dwellers, vaudeville attracted a diverse
                    audience and provided models, manners, and an egalitarian creed.
            Barth's book is fascinating but reminiscent of old-fashioned social histories which provided
                    great quantities of data but never satisfactorily proved anything. His impressionistic studies whet
                    the appetite but never wrestle with the difficult problems of establishing relationships between and
                    among institutions and the people and societies they affect. Barth's cities never reflect
                    the ethnic and economic differences that existed. He never justifies his cavalier dismissal of the
                    factory, the school, the church, and political organizations. European roots of several institutions
                    are noted but lightly dismissed. Over-generalizations and contradictory statements weaken the book.
                    Finally, the unusual footnoting style, typographical errors, totally incomprehensible sentences, and
                    Barth's belief that readers should accept without adequate documentation his assurances
                    that his assertions are true impair the value of the book. Nevertheless, as a series of
                    impressionistic essays on important nineteenth-century urban institutions, the book is worth
                    reading.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Miriam Z. Langsam
         
         
            
               American Medicine in Transition, 1840–1910. By John S. Haller, Jr. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xii, 457. Tables, illustrations, appendixes, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $27.95.)
            This book will well serve local historians with an interest in nineteenth-century medicine. In fact,
                    it will perhaps be more welcome than most of the existing surveys of medical triumphs and great
                    doctors of the previous century because it so nicely recaptures the scent of day-to-day medicine in
                    "Victorian" America.
            John S. Haller is unconcerned with recounting such heroic accomplishments of nineteenth-century
                    medicine as the germ theory of disease, the discovery of anesthesia, the public health movement, and
                    the early achievements of modern scientific medicine in education and technology. One will find very
                    little in the book to explain innovative medical procedures and therapies, whether surgical,
                    technological, or chemotherapeutic. Also surprisingly, one finds little concerning nursing,
                    hospitals,  or mental institutions. A second unusual feature of
                    this survey of American medicine from 1840 to 1910 (and Haller does confine himself nicely to this
                    time span), is that little of the reader's attention is directed to the uniquely American
                    characteristics of the medical nineteenth century. Each chapter blends the experiences of American
                    and European physicians and their patients so thoroughly that the ocean between them seems to have
                    disappeared.
            What Haller does discuss could be described as the social climate of medical theory and practice in
                    these decades, and the topics he selects are many of the ones local historians encounter routinely
                    in fee books, doctors' journals, letters and diaries of patients, newspaper advertisements
                    or editorials, and the general medical presuppositions of literate witnesses to the rapidly changing
                    landscape of the late 1800s.
            The first four chapters—on the humoral theory of disease, the proper ways to let blood,
                    the most frequently used drugs of the average regular physician, and the sceptics, sectarians, and
                    religious challengers to traditional medicine—are not greatly different from many
                    available works on American medicine. They are, however, filled with interesting, entertaining
                    examples for a non-specialist audience. A glance at the notes will further instruct the reader on
                    the wide variety of materials available to reconstruct the history of medicine in this period. The
                    second four chapters—on midwives and their demise, changes in medical education, the
                    ethical codes and business practices of ordinary physicians, and the importance of Darwinian theory
                    in changing the ways doctors viewed their role in society—are so constructed as to send
                    any industrious local historian to the libraries and archives with new questions to pursue.
            The questions arise not directly from the book, but from the fact that Haller rarely advances any
                    sustained thesis or argument to clarify the direction of medicine in "transition."
                    The closest he comes to describing what happened in these years can be expressed well with a comment
                    of a late-nineteenth-century 
                        Chicago
                     physician. Considering the achievements of Pasteur and Koch, Dr. G. Frank Lydston saw
                    them as "deranging the substratum of rational philosophy, upon which rested the entire
                    superstructure of medical science" (p. 296). Haller is essentially arguing that the
                    deranged superstructure of medicine occurs on all levels of patient and physician
                    experience, and his purpose is to suggest that one cannot possibly understand the transition in
                    medicine if inquiry is limited to progress in medical science. It is thus more  than an argument that social history or the patient's history
                    are important in themselves, the premise of many social histories of medicine available. Rather, one
                    cannot understand the change to a scientific medicine, to stranger treating stranger, without
                    understanding the social bankruptcy of older medical systems in early industrial America.
            Few physicians were displaced by the seismic social and scientific change of the late nineteenth
                    century. They clung to older therapies or practices while paying eloquent lip service to the new.
                    Day-to-day medicine, Haller reveals, "moved at a snail's pace" (p. ix).
                    In showing this, with abundant examples to hold the reader's attention, the book may
                    surprise those who have been comfortable with stories of progress in medical science or content with
                    anecdotes of the terrible trials for the patient of yesteryear. Since there are many specialized
                    studies available elsewhere, the scholar may similarly despair at Haller's refusal to draw
                    fine chronological boundaries, clear, challengeable historical theories and models, or sharply
                    defined conclusions. But the rich image he recreates of American medicine is bound to captivate the
                    general reader and stimulate interest in our common medical past.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Ann G. Carmichael
         
         
            
               John W. Foster: Politics and Diplomacy in the Imperial Era,
                    1873–1917. By Michael J. Devine. (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 1981. Pp. x, 187. Illustrations, notes, essay on sources,
                    bibliography, index. $15.50.)
            This book is an ambitious undertaking, for in only 115 pages Michael J. Devine writes the biography
                    of a "man viewed by his colleagues as America's ‘first professional
                    diplomat’" (p. 5) and assesses his "contributions to the development of
                    American foreign policy during the era of imperialism" (p. 5). The thesis of the volume is
                    that John W. Foster's diplomatic record "demonstrates clearly the continuity in
                    the evolution of American foreign policy from Ulysses S. Grant to Woodrow Wilson" (p. 4),
                    and the conclusion is that Foster's "unique contribution to American diplomacy was
                    his transmission of nineteenth-century idealism, nationalism, and a sense of world mission to men
                    … who were to form and implement foreign policy in the twentieth century" (p.
                    116).
            The son of British immigrants who settled in 
                        Evansville
                    , Foster was a reserved young man when he attended Indiana University at age fifteen. He
                    graduated as valedictorian of his  class, studied law, and at
                    age twenty-one started a private practice in 
                        Evansville
                    . By this time his personality had set—he was abrupt, humorless, moralistic,
                    opportunistic, and extremely partisan. After the Civil War his political fortunes rose with those of
                    the Republican party, and he began a diplomatic career. He was rewarded with several ministerial
                    assignments. Eventually, upon the resignation of Secretary of State James G. Blaine in 1892, Foster
                    became himself secretary of state.
            Perhaps it is the short length of the book that has proved troublesome for the author. Many
                    assertions are not sufficiently explained. Devine's point about Foster's
                    "midwestern origins" is, for example, ambiguous. He characterizes Foster as
                    narrow, inexperienced, and unfamiliar with world affairs; yet he insists his practical and diverse
                    midwestern background served him well. Just what was so midwestern about Foster's
                    background is never made clear. The author believes that "as the decade of the nineties
                    commenced, Foster was the American diplomat most experienced in the policies and tactics necessary
                    for an expansionist foreign policy …" (p. 38). Admired by President Benjamin
                    Harrison, Foster was brought into the administration. But Devine goes too far when he suggests that
                    as Secretary of State Blaine's health declined, Harrison sought Foster's counsel
                    with such increasing frequency that by the time of Blaine's resignation Foster was already
                    acting as secretary of state. Another confusion occurs in regard to the Chilean crisis of
                    1891–1892, with the author's suggestion that "no incident more clearly
                    demonstrated the magnitude of Foster's influence…. Foster was in large measure
                    responsible for causing the crisis that developed …" (p. 44). But Foster did not
                    divert Harrison from strict neutrality during the Chilean civil war; he did not
                    "meddle" in the Itata affair; and his influence in the
                    administration was indeed limited. Devine maintains that Foster's tenure as secretary of
                    state proves he provided continuity in the Harrison administration. The nature of the continuity is
                    not clear.
            The book is marred by Devine's awkward prose, poor organization, citations filled with
                    typographical errors, general carelessness (for example, he refers to the 
                        United States
                     minister to 
                        Chile
                     as Thomas Egan instead of Patrick Egan and to the Chilean rebel agent as Tumbull
                    instead of Trumbull). Foster, unfortunately, burned most of his papers, and the present book is
                    constructed from other, sometimes unreliable, sources. As such it probably was difficult to write
                    with certainty about many of the diplomatic controversies that Foster touched. Still,  the present book's difficulties are such that some other
                    scholar must again attempt the task.
            
               University of 
                     Vermont,
                                Burlington
                  
                Joyce S.
                Goldberg
         
         
            
               Long Steel Rail: The Railroad in American Folksong. By Norm Cohen. Music edited
                    by David Cohen. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xx, 710. Illustrations, notes, references, appendixes, bibliography,
                    index. $49.95.)
            This is an awesome book, an exhaustive study of folk songs dealing with life on or around railroads.
                    Norm Cohen, executive director of the John Edwards Memorial Foundation at UCLA (a major center for
                    the study of country music) and editor of its Quarterly, is also an industrial
                    chemist. The book is difficult to describe because it is so detailed, so comprehensive, so full of
                    anecdotes and information that one wonders if there is anything left to write on the topic. The
                    three brief opening chapters provide a history of railroads in the 
                        United States
                    , a history of written and recorded music, and an overview of railroad songs starting
                    with one written in 1828.
            The remainder of the book is divided into topical sections: Heroes and Badmen, The Fatal Run, Working
                    on the Railroad, In a Boxcar around the World, and the like. Within each of the nine sections
                    anywhere from three to fifteen songs are discussed. Included are such popular tunes as
                    "John Henry," "Casey Jones," "The Wreck of the Old
                    97," "The 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Cannonball," and "The 
                        Rock Island
                     Line," alongside such obscurities as "The Wreck of the C&O
                        Sportsman" and "The Railroad Boomer." Each song is
                    discussed at length, including alternate verses and versions, historical accuracy or inaccuracy,
                    recorded history, and a list of all printed sources and recordings which could be located. It seems
                    as if the author has read every song book and listened to every record ever produced. Some items
                    have only a few references, while others have dozens and even hundreds; the listing of recordings of
                    "John Henry" runs to eleven pages.
            This is more than a discussion of some railroad songs. More broadly, it is a fascinating history of
                    folk music, which Cohen defines as music "the survival of which does not depend entirely on
                    commercial media. Thus a song need not be old in order to qualify, but it must outlive its vogue in
                    sheet music and records" (p. 23). Such a general definition allows him to  include what others might categorize as popular music, blues, and
                    hillbilly music. It is therefore not surprising to find a section entitled "I've
                    Got the Railroad Blues," with a concise discussion of the form and content of blues music.
            As if all this were not enough, there are also excellent photographs and other illustrations, a list
                    of recorded instrumental music relating to trains, a list of important albums, and a detailed
                    bibliography. Because railroads have played such an important role in Indiana's history,
                    much of the information Cohen has compiled will be of great interest to local historians. Railroads
                    have held a fascination for Americans since the early nineteenth century, which explains the
                    profusion and popularity of these songs. Today, as passenger service is disappearing, we need
                    reminders of the crucial role trains have played in our past. U. Utah "Bruce"
                    Phillips has written a song entitled "Daddy, What's a Train?" (which is
                    not included in Long Steel Rail), a sad comment on their demise. If, eventually,
                    we are left with nothing else, we will always have railroad songs. And thanks to Norm Cohen, we will
                    know what they are about and where to find them. Unfortunately, the price of the book is a bit
                    steep.
            
               Indiana University Northwest, Gary Ronald D. Cohen
         
         
            
               The Melting Pot and the Altar: Marital Assimilation in Early Twentieth-Century 
                            Wisconsin
                        . By Richard M. Bernard. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1980. Pp. xxviii, 162. Tables, maps, graphs, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $17.50.)
            Although marriage across nationality lines is only one of many possible indices of immigrant
                    assimilation, the author of this small but thought-provoking monograph makes a strong case for its
                    primacy as a "measure of the success of the American melting pot" (p. xvii). Thus,
                    the purpose of the book is set forth clearly at the outset: "to shed new light on immigrant
                    assimilation by centering attention on the extent, patterns, and causes of intermarriage"
                    (p. xvi). The setting for the study is 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and the data examined derive primarily from a sample of the state's
                    manuscript marriage registrations. Although the treatment is, of necessity, heavily quantitative,
                    the prose is clear, and the book's many tables are succinctly summarized and explained.
                    Happily, the author frequently enhances his presentation with case studies of particular  couples—including such notable figures as Carl and Paula
                    Sandburg and Robert and Belle Case La Follette.
            The book begins with an introductory essay that explores the theoretical and methodological problems
                    in the study of marital assimilation and surveys and critiques previous treatments (primarily
                    sociological) of the subject. The first chapter then sets the stage by detailing the size,
                    composition, and distribution of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's immigrant population. (In 1900, 25 percent of the state's residents
                    were foreign born, another 46 percent were native born of foreign parents; the comparable figures
                    for Indiana were 6 percent and 15 percent.) The three subsequent chapters—the heart of
                    the book—deal with the questions "how much" and "why"
                    by examining the statewide intermarriage rates of the major immigrant groups, the individual factors
                    (e.g., age, class, exposure to other cultures in childhood) that inclined immigrants toward or away
                    from exogamy, and the group factors (demographic "availability" and socioeconomic
                    "desirability") affecting the process.
            The results of these analyses are detailed, complex, and subject to many qualifications. The relative
                    importance of the various individual and group variables, in particular, cannot be readily
                    summarized in a brief review. Suffice it to say that many immigrants in early twentieth-century 
                        Wisconsin
                     did indeed marry across nationality lines, western Europeans slightly more often than
                    eastern Europeans. The author's findings seem to support his contention that
                    "recent studies stressing cultural and structural pluralism … may have
                    improperly deemphasized the assimilative side of immigrant life in America" (p. 124). More
                    studies will be needed to test that proposition, and this book likely will be an important point of
                    departure for such work. While the author's empirical findings are certainly welcome, in
                    the long run the greatest value of this careful study may well be its theoretical and methodological
                    underpinnings.
            
               Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Robert G. Barrows
         
         
            
               Eisenhower's Lieutenants: The Campaign of 
                            France
                         and 
                            Germany
                        , 1944–1945. By Russell F. Weigley. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1981. Pp. xviii, 800. Maps, illustrations, notes and
                    sources, index. $22.50.)
            Addressing an audience at the Pentagon in 1946, Winston S. Churchill declared that the rapid
                    expansion of the American  armed forces during World War II had
                    been a military miracle, surpassed only by the ability of the 
                        United States
                     to "find the leaders and staffs capable of handling these enormous masses
                    … and leading them to victory." This volume, the first comprehensive, analytical
                    account of the operations of the U.S. Army and Air Forces in 
                  France, Belgium
               , Holland, and 
                        Germany
                     during the final year of the war, examines how leaders and staff gained their
                    objectives.
            But the author provides much more than a history of the supreme command and its decisions. Russell F.
                    Weigley focuses attention on the supreme command, army group, field army, and corps levels because
                    he feels that in trying to avoid the old-fashioned drum and trumpet approach practitioners of the
                    "new" military history too often have ignored combat, the ultimate reason for the
                    existence of any army. Therefore he follows the implementation of command decisions down to the
                    cutting edge of combat, examining the performance of divisions, regiments, and even smaller units in
                    battles, engagements, and small actions from Normandy to the Elbe and the Danube. And when the
                    actions of individuals affected the outcome, these too are described.
            Weigley aims at providing a complete picture, warts and all, noting achievements as well as
                    shortcomings. His major theme is that the U.S. Army had not developed a clear concept of warfare.
                    Its doctrine, he states, had been shaped by two conflicting legacies. From its frontier days the
                    army inherited the lessons of tactical mobility; from its Civil War experience, the value of sheer
                    massed power, demonstrated by Grant. These two legacies, never fully reconciled, affected both the
                    force structure of the army and the conduct of its operations. They provided for the most mobile
                    army ever put into the field up to 1944 but also for an army that had not yet fully understood the
                    solutions to the problems of movement and fire. American generalship, Weigley writes, "by
                    and large was competent," but it tended to prefer prosaic plans rigidly executed over
                    risk-taking improvisations, the "broad front advance" over the "single
                    thrust" approach. It was only special opportunity or dire crisis that allowed a deviant
                    like George Patton to emerge after D-Day in 
                        France
                    . These shortcomings were shared by British commanders, only too aware that they led the
                    last British army. In the end, Weigley concludes, the American-led allies won because they could
                    call on superior resources in men and material to offset their lack of brilliance in the higher art
                    of war.
            
            Contributing to the difficulties encountered was unexpectedly stiff resistance by the Germans, who,
                    until early 1945, proved ruthless and skillful enemies with tactical skills and weapons still
                    superior to those of the allies and with a command structure that proved resilient in adversity. At
                    the same time, American doctrine and practice still were not fully attuned to the need for the
                    integration of armor, infantry, and close tactical air support. The infantry divisions, less than
                    half the number originally called for in war plans, had too little firepower to carry out sustained
                    missions against the more experienced enemy and, suffering heavy losses, scraped the bottom of the
                    manpower pool by late 1944. And American armored divisions were still considered primarily as
                    instruments for exploiting a breakthrough; lacking machines with adequate guns, the divisions had to
                    sacrifice tanks to overcome the heavier and better armed Panthers and Tigers. Finally, although the
                    allies had clear quantitative and qualitative superiority in the air, the preoccupation of leading
                    airmen with independent strategic bombing delayed the development of truly effective close air
                    support for the ground troops.
            Still, the Americans learned. If in the summer of 1944 there were only a few divisions capable of
                    matching the Germans on a one-to-one basis, leadership, men, and tactics matured while, with the
                    logistic logjam broken, American industrial capacity was finally effectively translated into
                    battlefield assets. On the debit side of the ledger, however, there never were enough well-trained
                    replacements for infantry and armor.
            All this and much more is analyzed in a lucid and compelling narrative. To write history with such
                    scope and yet with so much detail requires magisterial knowledge, clear thinking, and considerable
                    literary skill. Weigley demonstrates that he possesses these talents. The result is one of those
                    rare works which sets a new standard for the state of the art while also providing much-needed
                    perspectives for the future. Eisenhower's Lieutenants will fascinate the
                    specialist, challenge the average reader, and provide food for thought for contemporary military
                    planners. In the aftermath of 
                        Korea
                     and 
                        Vietnam
                    , it is by no means clear that the lessons learned in the two German wars have been
                    truly absorbed. This admirable book, meticulously produced by Indiana University Press, deserves the
                    widest possible audience. Not only history at its best, it also is a valuable contribution to the
                    ongoing debate about national defense.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                Gunther E. Rothenberg
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS IN HISTORY
            Two Grants of $3,500 each
            for the
            1982-1983 Academic Year
            Applications due by March 15, 1982
            Purpose: To encourage research which will contribute to an understanding of the history of Indiana or
                    of Indiana and the region of which it is traditionally a part, the Old Northwest and Midwest.
            Eligibility: Applicants must be enrolled in a doctoral program in an accredited institution and have
                    completed all course work and met all requirements for the doctoral degree except the research and
                    writing of the dissertation. The dissertation subject must reflect he purpose of the grant and be
                    approved by the graduate committee of the institution.
            Application: Application forms may be obtained from the office of the Indiana Historical Society at
                    the address given below. Applicants must provide three letters of recommendation including one from
                    the chairman of the applicant's major department and one from the dissertation director. Documents
                    required in support are a transcript of graduate credits and a dissertation prospectus.
            Awards: Winners will receive grants of $3,500 to be used for expenses connected with their
                    dissertations. One half of the grant ($1,700) will be paid September 1, 1982; one fourth
                    ($875), December 1, 1982; and one fourth upon acceptance of the completed dissertation by
                    the graduate committee.
            Deadlines:
                  
                     For receipt of applications
                     March 15, 1982
                  
                  
                     Announcements of awards
                     May 15, 1982
                  
               
            
            For further information and application forms write:
            Gayle Thornbrough Executive Secretary Indiana Historical Society 315
                    West Ohio Street Indianapolis, Indiana 46202
         
         
         
            
                    Wives of Indiana Governors
                
            Margaret Moore Post, award-winning reporter for the Indianapolis News, has been
                    retained by the Indiana Historical Society to write a history of the wives of Indiana governors. The
                    project is in cooperation with the Auxiliary to the Indiana Medical Association.
            Mrs. Post already has done extensive research for the book in the Indiana State Library, in many
                    libraries throughout the state, and in interviews and correspondence across the nation.
            Because so many valuable records of these women are in family scrapbooks, letters, newspaper
                    clippings, and picture files, Mrs. Post is seeking information from families, friends, and
                    descendants. Her address is: 2805 Barbary Lane, Apt. E., Indianapolis, Ind. 46205.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
