
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 41, Issue 1, pages 1-106. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:41+issue:1+year:1945&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        Kaskaskia
                    , "The 
                        Versailles
                     of the West"
            NATALIA M. BELTING
            
            
               "1703 Apr. 25, Adripam Metchigamiam dictant venimus." With that
                    entry in the parish register by a Jesuit missionary the story of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and the villages of the 
                        Illinois
                     Country begins. "We are come to the river called the Michigamea."1 It was really the Kaskaskia River, a narrow stream that
                    flowed lazily south through broad 
                        Illinois
                     prairies and emptied into the 
                        Mississippi
                     a few miles below the campsite. The 
                        Illinois
                     tribe from which it took its name had originally lived much farther north. Settled with
                    the Frenchman's other allies, the Wea, Miami, Shawnee, and Piankashaw, near La
                    Salle's fort on the Illinois River, they had left in the late fall of
                    1700 with their missionary for new camp grounds on the Des Pères River on the western
                    side of the 
                        Mississippi
                     opposite the Cahokia mission.2
            
            It was this spot that they deserted in the early winter of 1703 with the intention of moving
                    twenty-five leagues south, about a day's journey from the tannery that had been established
                    on the Ohio River.3 With the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     were a number of French traders, most of them having Indian wives, and it was these
                    French, making their new homes on the river bank, who became the founders of the French village of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    .
            For fifteen years little news concerning this settlement in the midst of the tropical luxuriance of
                    the bottom land found its way into official correspondence. A report 
                  
                     1 Régistre de la Paroisse de l'Immaculee
                            Conception des Cascaskias, MS, Archives of 
                                St. Louis
                             University, 
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     .
                  
                     2 Sister Mary Palm, The Jesuit Missions of the Illinois
                                Country, 1678-1763 (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1931), 86-37.
                  
                     3 The tannery of Charles Juchereau de St. Denys established by him on
                            his concession near the present site of 
                                Cairo
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , in 1702. The enterprise was abandoned two years later when an epidemic visited
                            the post and killed the leader.
               
                     three years later stated that all the Canadians who were in the
                    woods had withdrawn except for a few Frenchmen who had married at the 
                        Illinois
                    ,4 and the following year there was some talk of setting up a post
                    there in order to furnish buffalo hides to Mobile.5 The fur trade was the chief
                    concern of the habitants. The traders made trouble for the priests by inciting Indian forays in
                    order to obtain slaves to sell to the English; in 1708, at the missionaries' request, Jean
                    Baptiste Bienville, governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    , sent Sieur d'Eraque with six men to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Cahokia to restore order.6 Once again, in 1711, Father Gabriel
                    Marest asked for aid against the coureur du bois, who, he reported, were
                    debauching the Indian women and preventing them from being converted. Twelve men under a sergeant
                    were sent from the south, and from the pen of one of them, Jean Penicaut, comes the first glimpse of
                    life in the village.
            There was a "very large church" at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , built by the habitants, with three chapels, a baptismal font, a steeple and a bell.
                    Early in the morning Indian catechumens assembled at the church for prayers and instructions. After
                    the Mass of the Faithful, the missionary began his rounds among the sick, a physician as well as a
                    priest. In the afternoon he held a catechism class; in the evening savages and French attended
                        vespers.7
            
            Habitant and Indian worked their fields together. Maize and wheat, garden vegetables, and excellent
                    French melons were raised. Wheat was supposedly not introduced into the region until 1718 when
                    Zebedee, a Fleming from Breda and a donné of the Jesuits, made the
                    first plow, and sowed a bushel of the grain, reaping ninety bushels at the end of July.8 But in the spring of 1710, five settlers on land between the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Lake Ponchartrain in lower 
                        Louisiana
                     each planted an "arpent of wheat which came from the 
                        Illinois
                    ."9 Flour made from 
                        Illinois
                     wheat was sent to 
                  
                     4 Dunbar Rowland (ed.), 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, French Dominion (3 vols., 
                                Jackson
                            , 
                                Mississippi
                            , 1927-1932), II (1929), 28.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., III (1932), 59.
                  
                     6 Palm, The Jesuit Missions of the Illinois Country,
                            43.
                  
                     7 Pierre Margry (ed.), Découvertes et
                                établissements des Franĉais dans l'Ouest et dans le Sud
                                de l'Amérique Septentrionale (1614-1754), (6 vols., 
                                Paris
                            , 1879-1888), V (1887), 491.
                  
                     8 Bibliothèque Nationale, MSS, fr., N.A., 2552:161.
                  
                     9 Rowland (ed.), 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, French Dominion, III, 147.
               
                     Isle Dauphine in March, 1714.10 When Penicaut
                    visited 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , he saw three mills, a windmill built on the banks of the Little River and owned by the
                    Jesuits, and two horsemills belonging to the Indians.11 Domestic cattle were
                    brought to the region about 1712.
            Epidemics regularly ravaged the countryside; one in the summer of 1714 struck down from two to three
                    hundred persons, four or five dying every day. Among the victims was the priest, Father Marest, who
                    died after an eight days' illness, September 15. His requiem was sung by the French; the
                    Indians covered his body with gifts of furs.12
            
            But in spite of disease, the French population at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     continued to increase. There were said to be more than seven hundred persons in the
                    Illinois Country in 1722.13 A census by M. Doren d'Artaguiette,
                    inspector general of the colony, made in June, 1723, found 64 habitants at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , 41 white laborers, 37 married women, and 54 children. At the new village sixteen miles
                    north at the new Fort de Chartres, there were 39 habitants, 42 white laborers, 28 married women, and
                    17 children. At Cahokia, the last settlement of the bottom land, there were 7 habitants, 1 white
                    laborer, 1 married woman, and 3 children.14 In 1721 at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     there were 80 houses and four mills.15 A census ten years later
                    gave the following statistics for 
                        Kaskaskia
                    .16
            
            
               
                  Legitimate children
                  87
               
               
                  Bastard children
                  14
               
               
                  Men
                  159
               
               
                  Women
                  39
               
               
                  Arpents cultivated
                  126
               
               
                  Land in value
                  2054
               
               
                  Negroes, "piece d'Inde"17
                  
                  38
               
            
            
               
                  10 Sister Mary Palm, "The First 
                            Illinois
                         Wheat," Mid-America (
                            Chicago
                        , 1918-), XIX (1937), 130n.
               
                  11 Margry (ed.), Découvertes et établissements
                        …, V, 490.
               
                  12 Palm, The Jesuit Missions of the Illinois Country,
                        45.
               
                  13 Archives Nationales, Ministère des Colonies, C13A 6:362v.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., C13A 8:226-226v.
               
                  15 Archives du Service Hydrographique, 115-10, no. 29.
               
                  16 Archives Nationales, Ministère des Colonies, G1:464.
               
                  17 "Piece d'Inde" was the standard value for a
                        complete negro.
            
            
            
               
                  Negresses
                  23
               
               
                  Negro children
                  41
               
               
                  Indian slaves
                  30 men 38 women
               
               
                  Oxen
                  256
               
               
                  Cows
                  237
               
               
                  Pigs
                  894
               
               
                  Horses
                  108
               
               
                  Mills
                  11
               
               
                  Houses
                  52
               
               
                  Barns
                  28
               
            
            Census lists for later years and memoirs by persons who visited the Illinois Country, gave
                    considerably different pictures of the population of the region. The official lists, such as the one
                    taken by Macarty in 1752, which can be checked against the parish registers and other sources for
                    the names of persons living there in that year, were always incomplete. On the other hand, figures
                    in some of the memoirs such as one for the year 1752 on French forts in 
                        Louisiana
                     were obviously grossly exaggerated. In this particular memoir the total number of
                    habitants of the five villages on the eastern banks of the 
                        Mississippi
                     was given as 6,000 with 5,000 negroes, 600 soldiers in garrison, and 260 houses in the
                    country altogether.18 Probably there were in the middle of the century somewhat
                    over 1,500 persons generally residing in the area and possibly about that number of negroes. At the
                    end of the French period most of the French removed to the Spanish side of the river or to 
                        New Orleans
                     rather than to remain under the British.
            In 1718 the Company of the Indies, which had acquired the whole of 
                        Louisiana
                     northward to the mouth of the Missouri River under a royal
                    charter, established a government for the region. Orders dated 
                        Paris
                    , August 11 and 26, 1718, provided for the civil government of the new province. A
                    council composed of the commandant, the chief clerk, the keeper of the store house or garde magasin, an under clerk, the engineer, the captain of the troops garrisoning the
                    post, the lieutenant, and two second lieutenants was to be the principal administrative and judicial
                    body. 
                  
                     18 Stanley Pargellis (ed.), Military Affairs in North
                                America, 1748-1765, Selected Documenta from the Cumberland Papers in Windsor Castle (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 18-14.
               
                     Any instructions of the Company concerning work on the 
                        Missouri
                     lead mines which were to be opened were to be executed by the deliberations of a
                    smaller group made up of the commandant, the chief clerk, the clerk in charge of the mines, and the
                    engineer. In the case of a tie vote, the commandant's voice was to count for two. The
                    advice of each member of the council in all matters was to be kept word for word in a special
                    register, and a separate record kept of the expenses of the mines.19
            
            By the later edict of May 12, 1722, it was decreed that the provincial council established at the
                    principal settlement of the 
                        Illinois
                     was to exercise justice in all criminal and civil cases with the right of appeal to the
                    Superior Council at 
                        New Orleans
                    . Its jurisdiction was to extend from the posts on the 
                        Wabash
                     to those on the 
                        Arkansas
                    .20
            
            The framework of the government continued much the same after the retrocession of the colony to the
                    crown in 1731, but the judicial duties of the provincial council, which had apparently functioned
                    only irregularly after 1726, were given over in 1734 to a new official, the écrivian principal, who acted as delegate of the ordonnateur
                    of 
                        Louisiana
                     and judged all disputes between the habitants.
            Local governmental affairs were in the hands of the royal notary, an official appointed from among
                    the habitants by the commandant or the chief clerk, and the syndics, elected by the habitants each
                    year and charged with such duties as keeping the fence about the commons in repair. As in all such
                    communities in 
                        New France
                    , the priests played important roles in managing local affairs.
            The first commandant of the Illinois Country, Pierre Duqué, Sieur de Boisbriant, a
                    Canadian of forty-seven years, who had been with Pierre Iberville when he explored the 
                        Mississippi
                     delta, arrived in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     in the summer of 1718 along with the other new officials. In 172121
                    he built a wooden fort sixteen miles above 
                        Kaskaskia
                     on the banks of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and christened it Fort de Chartres.
            A short distance to the north Philippe Renault, to 
                  
                     19 Archives Nationales, Ministère des Colonies, B42bis:
                            230-232.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., B43:103.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., C13C; Archives du Service Hydrographique, 115-10, no. 29.
               
                     whom the Company had granted the privilege of working the lead
                    mines of 
                        Missouri
                    , established the hamlet of St. Philippe on his concession bordering the river.22 To Lieutenant Melique who had accompanied him from the south, the commandant
                    gave a large tract of land lying between Fort de Chartres and 
                        Kaskaskia
                    ; it became known as Prairie Melique and was settled by tenants who worked the land for
                    the owner. Prairie Chassin was the concession of Nicolas Michael Chassin, first garde
                        magasin. The later town of Prairie du Rocher, farther inland, was built on land granted
                    originally to Ste. Thérèse Langloisière, by Boisbriant, his
                    relative.
            From 1712 until 1730 the Fox war kept the whole of the Illinois Country disturbed. Renault blamed his
                    failure to make any profits from his mines on Indian hostilities, but after the terrible defeat
                    which Fox suffered at French and Indian hands in the latter year, the country remained in
                    comparative peace until the beginning of the unrest which culminated in the Seven Years'
                    War. During that time 
                        Kaskaskia
                     became the principal trading post between 
                        Quebec
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            All sorts of people came to settle in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and the surrounding villages. There were the coureur du bois, men of
                    loose morals and little religion, more Indian that French in their habits. Michael Aco was one of
                    them. Apparently he was with the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     when they left the region of LaSalle's fort and settled with them on the banks
                    of the Kaskaskia river. His wife was Marie, daughter of the chief Rouensa, and,
                    according to the Jesuit fathers, one of the first and best of their converts among the tribe.
                    Michael and Marie were the parents of two sons, Pierre, who became a substantial habitant of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and Michael, who was disinherited by his mother for returning to live with his
                    grandfather's tribe.23 When her first husband died, Marie married
                    another fur trader, Michael Philippe, who eventually became captain of, the militia and one of the
                    leading citizens of the Illinois Country. Their six children married 
                  
                     22 Archives dn Service Hydrographique, 115-10, no. 29.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Kaskaskia
                             Manuscripts, Public Record, II, June 20, 1725.
               
                     well:—Agnes, the daughter baptized in 1708,24 was first married to Nicolas Michael Chassin,25 first garde magasin in 
                        Illinois
                    , and then to the surgeon, René Roy.26 Elizabeth, born in
                        1712,27 married Etienne Hebert28 of Fort de Chartres and
                    then Alexander de Celle Duclos,29 officer of the troops at the fort. Michael
                    Philippe's niece, Marie Philippe dit Dulongpré, married
                    Franĉois Margane, Sieur de 
                        Vincennes
                    , founder of the post on the 
                        Wabash
                    .30
            
            There were young men of noble birth, mostly to be found among the officers at 
                        Fort de Chartres
                    , but, if Grace King is correct (she cites no documents), one of the settlers at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Louis Boré (or Beauré) was the grandson and great grandson of
                    First Councillors to the French king, and his son, Jean Baptiste Etienne, born in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     about 1740, was educated in 
                        France
                     in the household of the King and married Marguerite Marie des Trehans des Tours,
                    daughter of the former treasurer of 
                        Louisiana
                    .
            Ambitious young men from 
                        Canada
                     settled in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and the neighboring villages and amassed considerable fortunes in the fur trade and in
                    raising wheat for the colony. Among them were men like Jean and Raphael St. Gemme Beauvais, founders
                    of the large and prosperious Beauvais clan of the Illinois Country; Louis Turpin whose stone house
                    built in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     in the 1740's was the first three-story building in the village, who was
                    captain of the militia, and whose daughter Marie, according to the Catholic church, was the first
                    girl born within the continental limits of the later 
                        United States
                     who became a nun; Jean Baptiste Bar-rois, royal notary; Philippe Bienvenu, a carpenter
                    who came from 
                        France
                    , and whose children were important settlers of the country.
            There were criminals in the Illinois Country; some of them perhaps only salt-smugglers, many of them
                        thieves.31
                    
                  
                     24 Régistre de la Paroisse. …
                  
                     25
                            
                                Kaskaskia
                             Manuscripts, Private Papers, II, July 6, 1737.
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     27 Régistre de la Paroisse. …
                  
                     28
                            
                                Kaskaskia
                             Manuscripts, Private Papers, VI, February 11, 1727.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., Private Papers, II, November 21, 1735.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., Private Papers, II, January 23, 1730.
                  
                     31 Rowland (ed.), 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, French Dominion, II, 415.
               
                     Among the women of the settlement were deeply pious Indian
                    converts, women like Madame Du Tisné who were of the "grande
                        monde,"32 native-born daughters of Canadian farmers and
                    seigneurs, "casket" girls, and prostitutes from the streets of 
                        Paris
                     and LaRochelle. Nicolas Michael Chassin wrote to Father Bobé in 
                        France
                     in 1722 that the officers at the 
                        Illinois
                     had determined to do without wives until the Company of the Indies furnished them more
                    respectable girls. The officers, he said, didn't want to marry girls with such bad
                    reputations and incurable diseases. He suggested that it would be easy to have girls sent from 
                        Canada
                    , but that a libertine who came from there made the officers fear that other girls might
                    be the same.33 As late as 1752 Macarty, commanding at 
                        Illinois
                    , was writing Governor Vaudreuil suggesting that the government send over wives for the
                    soldiers.
            
                    The creoles of this country won't deign fo look at a soldier. Their easy life gives them
                        big ideas. If you could send some girls from the foundlings or the hospitals of 
                            France
                         to give to the discharged soldiers, they might become fruitful vines, instructed in
                        the principles of religion, who would accept their situation and would in the end make good
                            inhabitants.34
               
                
            Not all the settlers were French, either. The troops garrisoning the country were made up of Swiss
                    and Germans and Spaniards and Italians, even a few Irish and English. Some of these men, when their
                    terms of service were completed, settled down alongside the French as habitants.
            The first houses of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     were built three or four hundred feet back from the river's edge, along a
                    strip of beach which at the northern limits of the town became a thick belt of timber skirting the
                    river for many miles.85 Half a mile or so above 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , the river turned abruptly 
                  
                     32 Le Page du Prate, Histoire de la Louisiane (3
                            vols., 
                                Paris
                            , 1768), II, 297.
                  
                     33 Rowland (ed.), 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, French Dominion, II, 415.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Huntington
                             Manuscripts, Loudoun Collection, 412, December 7, 1752.
                  
                     35 For a map of 
                                Kaskaskia
                             see Frank H. Hodder (ed.), The Present State of the European
                                Settlements on the Missisippi, by Captain Philip Pittman, an exact, reprint of the
                            original edition, 
                                London
                            , 1770 (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1906).
               
                     to the west and only a narrow neck of land separated the
                    tributary from the 
                        Mississippi
                    . At this point each year the flood waters of the 
                        Mississippi
                     cut the channel farther and farther eastward until in the spring of 1881 they at last
                    broke through the short distance that remained, and leaving its old bed, the 
                        Mississippi
                     swept down over most of the old French village.
            The architecture of the 
                        Illinois
                     colonists had features similar to colonial architecture in 
                        Canada
                     and in the West Indies, and some features similar to the peasant cottages of Normandy.
                    Most of the houses were built of logs, but of logs set upright in the ground or upon stone
                    foundations. The roofs were steep-hipped and sloping, and underneath the wide eaves ran porches or
                        galeries, always across the two long sides of the house, and oftentimes across
                    the gable ends as well. The rooms were laid end to end, each having its own door opening onto the
                    porch, and in some cases there were not inside doors at all between two adjoining rooms. Sometimes
                    there was a second floor, and in a few cases, where the houses were built of stone, there were
                        three.36
            
            By decree of the Superior Council of 
                        Louisiana
                     each house and lot were enclosed with palisades. These were usually of mulberry posts,
                    seven to ten feet high, and sharpened on the ends. The Frenchman of the Illinois Country lived in
                    his fort.
            Everyday life in Kaskaskia was much the same as it had been in seventeenth century 
                        Canada
                    . The habitant was content to live as his fathers had lived, to hunt and trap as they
                    had in the north country, to cultivate the fertile bottom land with a primitive wooden plow, to work
                    the lead mines across the 
                        Mississippi
                     with shovel and pick, and at the end of the day to gossip on the porch, to dance, or to
                    have a mug of rum at the tavern.
            Class distinctions, like the government's despotism, were mostly theoretical, and where
                    there was a line it was between the officers of the troops and the habitants. Few persons 
                  
                     36 The authority on 
                                Illinois
                            -French architecture is Charles Peterson of the National Park Service,
                                    
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     . See his article, "French
                            Architecture," Mixsowriana (
                                Jefferson
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , 1928-), X (August-September, 1938), no. 10, pp. 9-12.
               
                     came to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     already well-to-do; a considerable number, prospering from the fur trade and the
                    raising of wheat, acquired moderate wealth. 
                        Kaskaskia
                     became a community of merchants and traders who supplied lower 
                        Louisiana
                     with flour, meat and bear oil, which could be had in abundance in 
                        Illinois
                    , and brought back from 
                        New Orleans
                     luxuries as well as necessities.
            Their houses varied little in style of architecture, and inside—until the latter days of
                    the French regime, the houses of the wealthier merchants looked much like the homes of the poorer
                        voyageurs. What difference there was came as much from the difference in
                    quantity as from quality.
            The inventories, carefully drawn up by the notary and the priest within a few hours after the death
                    of a person, or upon the dissolution of a partnership give one an excel-: lent idea of the kind of
                    homes these French had and the clothes they wore, and even, though we get it by inference, the life
                    they led.
            The kitchen, center of family life, was generally the only room that was heated unless the chimney
                    was a double one in the middle of the house. On the hearth under the mantle stood the iron firedogs
                    with their curved heads, the indispensable pothook, and the spit. Arranged nearby were the iron
                    grill, the frying pans and pipkins, the copper and iron boilers and cauldrons.
            On the mantle, to use when the fire was low, stood crude iron lamps like the Betsey lamps of the
                    American pioneers, lamps whose shape had changed little since Roman times. There were copper and
                    wood candlesticks for holding the long tallow candles, and sometimes a pair of snuffers. On special
                    occasions the habitant burned slender candles made from the fine wax of the candleberry myrtle of 
                        Louisiana
                    . There were iron lanterns with pointed caps standing on the mantlepiece also, for use
                    outside at night. " And on pegs above the mantle rested the habitant's best guns;
                    the powder horn, sometimes banded with silver, hung close by.
            Probably in the middle of the room was a long, rectangular table made of walnut or oak from the 
                        Illinois
                     forests. On the high sideboard or buffet at the side of the room the housewife
                    displayed her pewter and crockery. Pewter  dishes were common;
                    and the earthenware plates, created especially for the peasant classes, with their flowers, their
                    cocks and their human figures all painted in stiff colors on a brilliant enamel37 gave a gay aspect to the somber room. Glass tableware was rare, and yet there were
                    habitants who owned crystal, and silver, and even one or two gold goblets. Some had silver cups and
                    bowls; spoons were sometimes of silver, more often of pewter. Forks were usually of steel or iron;
                    table knives were not common—the habitant used his hunting knife. For covering the table
                    there were linen and cotton cloths, both plain and embroidered, with napkins of the same
                        materials.38
            
            The most valuable piece of furniture in the house was the bed; in the Illinois Country it was
                    frequently the only dowry of the bride, and its ownership by the survivor of the pair was assured by
                    the marriage contract. Six feet or so square, the bed was furnished with a straw mattress and a
                    thick feather bed—in better homes—and curtained with hangings of green or red
                    serge, or very rarely, of fine painted stuffs. Buffalo hides and coarse wool blankets served for
                    covers; counterpanes were of calico and sometimes of finer, flowered materials.
            A chest or so in the bedrooms and an armoire or wardrobe completed the furnishings
                    of most of the habitant's houses. The wardrobe was a large affair, often eight or ten feet
                    wide and with as many as thirty-six shelves. Made like most of the other furniture, of walnut, or
                    perhaps of black poplar or cherry, it had two long, hinged doors, and served as a closet for storing
                    clothing and other household goods.
            There were other items which were more luxuries than necessities. Most families possessed mirrors "a la toilette"; a few owned larger, framed mirrors. There is no
                    mention of any clocks or watches in any of the inventories, or even of the popular pocket sundials,
                    yet there must have been some owned perhaps by the priests and the officers, since many documents
                    contain references to exact hours of the day. But 
                  
                     37 For a description of eighteenth century French earthenware see M.
                            A. A. Mareschal, La Faïence Populaire au XVIIIme
                                Siede … (
                                Paris
                            , 1872).
                  
                     38 Inventories are scattered throughout the volumes of Public and
                            Private Papers of the 
                                Kaskaskia
                             Manuscripts.
               
                     for most of the habitants the sun and the church bell
                        sufficed.39
            
            
               
                  39 An example of the inventories is the one made of the effects of Sr.
                        Jacques Bourdon, officer of the militia of 
                            Kaskaskia
                         and habitant, which was made July 1-5, 1723, and is to be found in 
                            Kaskaskia
                         Manuscripts, Public Papers, II. The following are extracts: 
                     1 walnut wardrobe
                     8 walnut chairs and 1 armchair
                     1 dresser with a buffet upon it
                     1 cot (couchette)
                     14 plates and 2 pewter dishes
                     17 glass bottles
                     1 copper candlestick and 1 pair of snuffers
                     1 pepper-mill
                     1 pewter saltcellar
                     1 old salting tub
                     2 frying pans
                     1 grill
                     1 pair of andirons
                     1 iron shovel
                     1 old hunting horn
                     200 gun flints
                     9 dozen and 8 knives a chien de corne, 10 Flemish knives, 2
                                woodcutter's knives
                     40 pounds of lead balls
                     20 pewter spoons
                     1 comb
                     16 large diaper linen napkins and 4 large tablecloths of the same
                     4 old napkins
                     1 box of grained leather decorated with silver nails with 3 pairs of spectacles, and
                                another box also with 3 pairs of spectacles
                     1 letter case
                     1 dice box and 3 dice
                     1 old four-legged table of black poplar
                     2 silver cups
                     2 cupboards of black walnut with 36 shelves, some 8 feet long and some 10 feet
                     1 spit
                     2 poor lanterns
                     3 trunks of clothes and other merchandise
                     1 small box full of paper
                     1 pair of tailor's shears
                     1 bullet mould
                     1 pewter (or tin?) syringe
                     1 iron ladle
                     14 guns and 1 musket
                     2 miserable scythes
                     4 hatchets
                     2 adzes
                     3 plates and 2 spoons of Spanish silver
                     2 razor boxes with 2 razors in each and 2 hones
                     1 pair of pocket pistols
                     1 old coarse blanket
                     3 cauldrons of red copper weighing 18 pounds
                     2 yellow copper cauldrons weighing 3½ pounds
                     1 cauldron weighing 14½ pounds
                     1 cauldron weighing 12 pounds
                     2 iron cooking pans
                     4 Spanish vases full of oil
                     2 Natchez earthenware jugs full of oil
                     2 red copper couldrons with lids, weighing 24½ pounds, full of bear oil
                     2 old copper cauldrons
                     2 old covered cauldrons
                     1 old salting tub
                     1 ladle
                     3 chests
                     2 barrels of powder weighing 100 pounds each.
                  
                        For the inventory of Marie Catherine Baptiste Baron, who died in July, 1748, see 
                                Kaskaskia
                             Manuscripts, Private Papers, V. The following were among her
                            possessions:
                  
                     14 napkins
                     4 linen tablecloths, one of diaper linen, and two of Beaufort linen
                     3 window curtains of brown linen
                     3 calico window curtains
                     1 bed furnished with a straw mattress, a pillow, a bolster, a calico counterpane, a
                                feather bed, a green wool blanket
                     2 silver goblets
                     2 crystal goblets
                     6 crockery plates
                     1 large framed mirror
                     1 small framed mirror
                     1 small cupboard with 6 wine bottles
                  
               
            
            
            The distinguishing dress of the 
                        Illinois
                     habitant in the eighteenth century like that of his brother in 
                        Canada
                    , was the capot, a hooded jacket belted at the waist with a sash and reaching to his
                    knees. A shirt of cotton or wool, knee-length breeches, long wool stockings and soft-soled leather
                    shoes completed his everyday costume. The dress of his wife and daughters was equally simple,
                    according to travelers like Peter Kalm, and-consisted of a sleeveless bodice over a short-sleeved
                    waist, ankle length skirt and Indian moccasins.
            But on feast days and holy days how differently must they have dressed. Jacques Bourdon, mentioned
                    above, owned at his death: 
                        1 old dress coat of taffeta with buttons of silver wire and a jacket of silk
                        1 old waistcoat of limbourg
                        1 old belt of damask.40
                  
                    
                
            Pierre Messager, merchant and lead miner, frequently was commissioned by one or another habitant to
                    buy clothing for him in 
                        New Orleans
                    . Just before the convoy set out for lower 
                        Louisiana
                     in May, 1740, he signed an agreement with Pierre Bouvier to bring back in the fall one
                    complete outfit of "camelot sur soye"—a dress coat,
                    waist coat, two pairs of breeches, one fine hat of half beaver, four shirts of the finest batiste,
                    one pair of silk stockings in a color suitable to wear with the outfit.41
            
            An inventory dated 1747 lists such items as 
                        2 aprons, one of double calamande, the other of double satin
                        1 white cotton dress, a rose-colored quilted skirt of calico, 2 rose-colored calico skirts
                        1 pair of woman's silk stockings
                        1 cap of black gauze.42
                  
                    
                
            Dame Baron, also mentioned above, owned a taffeta petticoat among other things." Alphonse de
                    La Buissonnière, commandant at 
                        Illinois
                     from 1737 until his sudden death in December, 1740, was described as a poor man by the
                    governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    . Nevertheless, he owned such things as 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Kaskaskia
                             Manuscripts, Public Papers, II.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., Commercial Papers, IV.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., Private Papers, V.
                  
                            43
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                        1 great coat of bouracan44 with gold lace and buttons
                        1 pair of breeches of scarlet cloth
                        1 dress coat and 1 waist coat both trimmed with wide gold ribbon
                        1 dress coat of English drugget and 1 pair of brown breeches
                        1 dress coat of rose-colored silk trimmed with wide gold ribbon
                        2 pairs of white silk stockings
                        2 hats embroidered with gold; one with a white feather, the other with a black feather
                        3 hats embroidered with gold
                        1 dress coat of mazamet45
                  
                        85 new, trimmed, men's shirts.46
                  
                    
                
            Other inventories of the villages tell a similar story, and few of the habitants seem to have been so
                    poor that they didn't own at least one outfit of silk or satin or a shirt or two of
                    batiste, worked or lace-trimmed, or a pair of silk stockings.
            The 
                        Illinois
                     habitant was a farmer and a fur trader. Sometimes he was also a carpenter, a smith or a
                    tailor, but even then he had first of all to raise his food. And when the seed was in or the crops
                    harvested, he left farming to his wife or slaves and hired himself out to one of the village
                    merchants to carry trade goods to the Indians.
            In the common fields of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     south and west of the settlement each habitant owned, or rented, a ribbon of land
                    extending from the banks of the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the pasture fence. Some held grants of land in the prairie east of the
                        Kaskaskia River which ran back as far as the hills edging the St.
                    Mary's River. Most of these strips were not over one or two arpents in width, but because
                    of the meanderings of the rivers, where one farm of two arpents front might contain only ninety
                    acres, another next to it, of the same width might include one hundred and fifty or more.
            No fences, but only double furrows divided one field from another. Barns, though sometimes built on
                    the habitant's land inside the town limits, were usually erected either on the Commons or
                    on this cultivated land. They were of a good size, larger than many of the houses, but 
                  
                     44 A coarse woolen cloth.
                  
                     45 Woolen cloth manufactured at Mazamet.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Kaskaskia
                             Manuscripts, Private Papers, III.
               
                     of similar construction. Urban Gervais' barn at Prairie
                    du Rocher was eighty feet by thirty-five feet by fourteen feet.47 A few persons
                    had stone barns. There were other smaller buildings dotted over the fields, some of them windmills,
                    and apparently some of them tenant houses.
            Farm tools were extremely primitive. The same kind of a wooden plow that first turned the sod at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     in 1710 was being used by the habitant's descendants a century later. The
                    harrow was a triangular affair of wood, its two long sides each about six feet in length, while the
                    third was about four feet; its teeth, also of wood, were about five inches long. Harvesting was
                    accomplished with scythe and sickle, threshing with a wooden flail.
            The habitant never fertilized his fields, tilled them carelessly, frequently lost entire crops by
                    flood or drouth, and still produced enough grain year after year to send large quantities down the
                    river to the settlements of lower 
                        Louisiana
                    .
            Wheat and maize were the principal grains raised. Wheat grew easily on the fertile bottom land, but
                    the yield was far below that for Indian corn. Writing in 1752, Father Louis Vivier, the priest of
                    the village, reported that while as a rule wheat yielded only five to eightfold, maize
                    "yields a thousandfold." The fogs, sudden heats, and indifferent cultivation which
                    the Jesuit blamed for the poor wheat crops apparently had no harmful effects on the maize, and the
                    country produced three times as much food as it could use.48
            
            Cattle were kept by the habitant to draw his plow and his two-wheeled carts and to supply him with
                    meat and milk. They were undoubtedly the most useful animals he owned, and poor indeed was the
                    Frenchman of the 
                        Illinois
                     who did not own at least one cow. In 1721, according to L'Allemand who visited 
                        Kaskaskia
                     that year, there were a hundred "betes a cornes."49
                In 1752 the census taker listed 757 oxen, 714 cows, 408 bull calves
                    and 349 heifers in the whole of the country.50
            
            
               
                  47
                        Ibid., Commercial Papers, III.
               
                  48 Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Travels and Explorations of the
                            Jesuit Missionaries in 
                                New France
                            , 1610-1791 (73 vols., 
                            Cleveland
                        , 1896-1901), LXIX (1900), 219.
               
                  49 Archives du Service Hydrographique, 115-10, no. 29.
               
                  50
                        
                            Huntington
                         Library Manuscripts, Loudoun Collection, 426.
            
            
            Most of the habitants seem also to have owned horses. By the same census of 1752, of the 519 horses
                    counted for the country, 346 belonged to villagers of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . When the horses they furnished Macarty for a detachment of soldiers returned so worn
                    out that they were useless to their owners, Sieur Bove [Bore?] and Sieur Charleville and Sieur
                    Delisle protested to Governor Vaudreuil. The soldiers, they declared, had been sent to hunt Indians,
                    not game.51
            
            The food that these habitants raised and the furs that the traders brought in at the end of the
                    hunting season were carried downstream to 
                        New Orleans
                     by the voyageurs of the Illinois Country. A considerable portion of
                    the population of Kaskaskia was composed of these transients who made the village their headquarters
                    between trips to the Gulf and 
                        Canada
                     or trading excursions into Indian country. Many were men born in 
                        Illinois
                    , some were Canadians, a few were natives of lower 
                        Louisiana
                    . Occasionally they were farmers and artisans.
            Annually, in the spring of the year, these voyageurs, carrying the flour and meat
                    of the 
                        Illinois
                     merchants, joined the convoy that was sent down the river to 
                        New Orleans
                     with the troops from the fort that were being relieved. In the late summer, bringing
                    back merchandise for the French and Indians, they ascended the river in the king's convoy
                    protected by the new company of soldiers. Too often, however, they took their own dangerous way
                    alone up and down the 
                        Mississippi
                    , running risks from attacks by the Chickasaw and other hostile Indians, and bringing
                    down the maledictions of the government on their heads for putting French officials to the necessity
                    of securing their release when they were captured, or avenging their deaths when they were killed.
            They were hard, adventurous men—none other would have dared trust their lives in the long,
                    narrow pirogues fashioned from cypress or cedar logs forty feet long and no more than three or four
                    feet wide. The bigger pirogues carried thirty men; their freight capacity varied from one to fifty
                    tons.
            
               
                  51
                        Ibid., 414, December 9, 1752.
            
            
            Batteaux were the craft used by the government and the richer merchants to carry goods. Larger than
                    the pirogues, and built of several pieces of timber, they were flat-bottomed and pointed bow and
                    stern. One end was covered with hoops of cloth for protecting the stores. They carried sails, and
                    when the wind was unfavorable, they were oared or poled; after 1750 cordelling or towing came into
                    common use for the heaviest ones.52 Their sizes varied considerably. In 1737 the
                    government let a contract for the construction of fifty batteaux each to be forty feet by nine feet
                    by four feet of twelve tons burden, to cost 3,440 livres apiece, and to be finished by March,
                        1738.53
                    Demi-gallères, or decked batteaux, were also employed in the 
                        Illinois
                     traffic. Two of twenty-five tons each, with space for sixty-four men, plied between
                    upper and lower 
                        Louisiana
                     by 1725.54 Whether the gallères of
                    fifty or more tons were ever used in the annual convoy is not recorded.
            The best time to leave Kaskaskia was about February 1 when the water was high and the current flowing
                    at the rate of five miles an hour; then too the land on both sides was flooded and the Indians were
                    hunting. Going downstream then was a short journey of from twelve to twenty days. Returning in the
                    autumn was a different story. Against the current the best crews made only six or seven leagues
                    rowing from dawn to dusk. Indian attacks were frequent, and many a convoy was caught by the ice and
                    forced to winter en route, usually at the 
                        Arkansas
                     post. Three to four months were usually counted on for the trip.
            The convoys were under the command of a French officer who was allowed to carry a certain amount of
                    freight free as a kind of bonus. There were frequent reports that he abused this privilege, carrying
                    so much of his own that there was little room for the king's goods. Often too, when the
                    goods were checked upon their arrival at 
                        Illinois
                     much was found missing, presumably many times from the captain's pilfering.
            
               
                  52 N. M. Miller Surrey, The Commerce of 
                                Louisiana
                             during the French Regime, 1099-1763, 
                                Columbia
                             University Studies in Political Science, LXXI, no. 1 (
                            New York
                        , 1916), 73.
               
                  53 Archives Nationales, Ministère des Colonies, C13A
                        20:176-179.
               
                  54
                        Ibid., C13 8:455-455v.
            
            
            At all times of the year, in spite of the edict against it, there were single pirogues of voyageurs and traders going to and from the sea, but the main river traffic was
                    carried on by these convoys. At Kaskasia sales were often made with provision for payment
                    "when the next convoy arrives."
         
         
         
            The Urbanization of the Middle West: Town and Village in the Pioneer Period
            FRANCIS P. WEISENBURGER
            
            Many factors stimulated the growth of towns and villages in the five states which were carved out of
                    the Old Northwest–
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Among these factors may be noted the presence of French settlements, locations on
                    important waterways, need for local marketing centers, natural resources, the establishment of land
                    offices and state capitals, the formation of educational, religious, and health centers, and finally
                    the rise of manufactures. A large portion of this development took place in the state of 
                        Ohio
                     because that state had reached a much greater nonrural development than the other parts
                    of the Old Northwest. This is indicated in part by the fact that in 1810, 
                        Ohio
                    's population was five and five-eighths times as great as that of the rest of
                    the Old Northwest; in 1820, two and three-fourths as great; and in 1840, it still was more populous
                    than all the rest of the region.1
            
            In the present discussion, limitations of space will restrict the analysis of town and village life
                    in the Northwest to a consideration of the principal reasons for the founding and development of the
                    various communities. In the case of individual communities, many of them necessarily fall into more
                    than one category.
            In the first place, there were the towns which were a legacy of the French regime, places like 
                        Vincennes
                     in Indiana, 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Cahokia in 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Detroit
                     in 
                        Michigan
                    . Of these, at the end of the pioneer period (1850), 
                        Detroit
                     alone was of primary importance, with a population of 21,019, although 
                        Vincennes
                     continued as a community of local significance.
            On the other hand, by 1818 Cahokia was declining in population, as 
                        Kaskaskia
                    —in earlier years the metropolis of the upper Mississippi
                    Valley had done in the years from 1765 until 1807 when it had contained no more than
                    fifty families. In 1809, however, 
                        Kaskaskia
                     had been made the capital of the new territory of 
                        Illinois
                     and had been designated a land office town. When the state was admitted to 
                  
                     1
                            Thirteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , I: Population, 1910, pp. 30-31.
               
                     the Union in 1818, the population of Kaskaskia was about a
                    thousand people. But, one visitor to the place in 1819 thought it "not very
                    important"; after a flood in 1844 the county seat was moved to 
                        Chester
                    ; and after a later flood, the cutting of a new channel by the Mississippi
                        River severed the location from the mainland, and 
                        Kaskaskia
                     became little more than an island with an historic past.2
            
            A second reason for the location of some of the towns of the Northwest was a favorable position on an
                    important river. That had accounted for the continued significance of 
                        Detroit
                    , which even in 1830 had 2,222 people and in 1840, 9,102. Associated with the
                    advantageous river location, for some years the proximity of a fort or stockade as security in case
                    of Indian attack had been imperative. Thus, Marietta, settled in 1788 as the first authorized
                    American community in the Old Northwest, was not only on the Ohio River and at
                    the mouth of the Muskingum but it was protected by a fort, Harmar, across the Muskingum, and by its
                    own Campus Martius.3 Similarly, 
                        Cincinnati
                     (first called Losantiville) was not only on the Ohio River and
                    opposite the mouth of the Licking River, but its development was under the protecting arm of 
                        Fort Washington
                    . Such towns as 
                        Dayton
                     and 
                        Chillicothe
                     to the northward were established only after the Treaty of Greenville had removed the
                    Indian menace. Even after 
                        Wayne
                    's treaty, in Indiana Territory, farmers in the vicinity of 
                        Vincennes
                     depended upon the security furnished by the stockade there, without which the 2,497
                    persons counted in that general vicinity by the census of 1800, could not have remained.4 Such river towns often developed into important centers of trade. On the
                        Ohio River, not only 
                        Marietta
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     but Steubenville in 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Evansville
                     (each laid out in 1812) in Indiana, and Shawneetown in 
                        Illinois
                    , were developing commercial communities. In 1818, Shawneetown was the largest
                    settlement on the Ohio River below 
                        Louisville
                    , and was the metropolis of eastern 
                        Illinois
                    . An attempt to establish a town at 
                        Cairo
                     had failed in 1818 and only succeeded just before 1840, when 
                  
                     2 Solon J. Buck, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 in 1818 (
                        Springfield,
                                    Illinois
                     , 1917), 75-77, 59-60.
                  
                     3 Randolph C. Downes, Frontier 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1788-1803 (
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1935), 71.
                  
                     4 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. 1915), I, 155.
               
                     Shawneetown had 862 inhabitants.5 On the 
                        Mississippi
                    , Alton had experienced great development as a commercial center from 1830 to 1840, and
                    during the 1840's it continued as the leading market town of the state.
            Some towns grew up similarly as commercial centers on the less important rivers. In the first half of
                    the nineteenth century, before the period of rapid drainage, rivers maintained a much steadier level
                    than in later years. Thus, the Muskingum was considered to be navigable to 
                        Zanesville
                     and even to 
                        Coshocton
                    , and the Illinois River as far north as Peoria and even 
                        Ottawa
                    . During the 1830 season, steamers went up the river to Peoria.
            A third factor in the development of villages and towns in the Old Northwest was the need for local
                    villages and market towns in the interior. During a period when local roads were wretched, little
                    villages in the forest arose almost with the cultivation of the first farms, in order to take care
                    of necessary demands of the countryside. There would be found a store or two, a flourmill, a
                    blacksmith shop, and perhaps a few dwellings. As early as 1709 in a petition to Congress, pioneers
                    in the Miami Valley described such a process of settlement. They stated in part.
            
                    Those purchases [of land] were multiplied, untill [sic] several hundred
                        families are settled without the patent: considerable improvements have been made and not only
                        dweeling [sic] houses, but also mills and several respectable vilages [sic] houses, and now the Country is occupied from side to side.6
               
                
            Similarly, larger communities developed as interior market towns for a considerable area. To these,
                    local traders brought the products of the countryside and received in exchange goods which many
                    times had been brought from afar. In 
                        Ohio
                    , by 1840, there were many such communities, such as 
                        Urbana
                    , Bucyrus, Cadiz, 
                        Marion
                    , Circleville, 
                        Mansfield
                    , and 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    . A considerable degree of prosperity was found in many of these places. Thus,
                            
                  Lancaster, Ohio
               , in 1840 had 3,272 people, more than half as many inhabitants as 
                        Cleveland
                    . At Mansfield, the county seat of the not inappropriately named Richland County, the
                    Congregational church building was one of the finest edifices in the state, as was the 
                  
                     5 John M. Lansden, "Cairo in 1841," in Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1908—), V (1913), 25 ff.
                  
                     6 Clarence E. Carter (ed.), The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , III (
                                Washington
                            , 1934), 42.
               
                     Episcopal church, a large Gothic structure, at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    .7
            
            In the fourth place, some towns developed because of special natural resources to be found in the
                    vicinity. Thus, Shawneetown in 
                        Illinois
                     owed part of its early importance to the location of the salt deposits twelve miles
                        away.8
            
            In 1830, 
                        Zanesville
                     with over three thousand people, was the second largest city in 
                        Ohio
                    , due largely to certain natural advantages. Important saltworks were located in the
                    vicinity, and the water power near at hand was conducive to cheap manufacturing processes. Already
                    the clays in that region were being used in manufacturing, and in 1840, of the ninety-nine potteries
                    in the state, twenty-two of them were located in 
                        Muskingum County
                     (of which 
                        Zanesville
                     was and is the county seat). Similarly, East Liverpool was at that time beginning the
                    manufacture of yellow ware.9
            
            The presence of "decomposable pyrites" in the vicinity of Steubenville permitted
                    the manufacture of copperas at that place in large quantities, and by the late 'forties there were
                    seven copperas establishments in the vicinity of that city. Likewise the gypsum found near Port
                    Clinton was being exploited commercially as were the limestone quarries at 
                        Berea
                    .10
            
            Some towns prospered as mining communities. Thus, 
                        Galena
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , grew up from 1823 to 1829 with the development of lead production. Galena, however,
                    was rather unstable in population, for the miners came there to work during the summer and left
                    during the winter. In what is now 
                        Wisconsin
                    , moreover, practically half of the population lived in the lead-mining villages of 
                        Iowa County
                    .11
            
            In southeastern 
                        Ohio
                     also, mining communities developed. In 1835, a capitalist, Valentine B. Horton, located
                    in 
                        Nyesville
                    , which he renamed Pomeroy, his wife's maiden name.12 There
                    he stimulated an interest in coal mining, and 
                  
                     7 Warren Jenkins, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Gazetteer (
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1839), 317.
                  
                     8 Buck, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 in 1818, pp. 68-70.
                  
                     9 Wilber Stout, "History of the 
                                Clay
                             Industry in 
                                Ohio
                            ," in Geological Survey of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , Fourth Series, Bulletin 26, (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                            1923), 7-102.
                  
                     10 Benjamin Drake and Edward D. Mansfield, 
                        
                                    Cincinnati
                                 in 1826 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1827), 11-12.
                  
                     11 Milo M. Quaife, 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Its History and Its People, 1634-1924 (4 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1924), I, 441.
                  
                     12 Asher Isaacs, "Valentine B. Horton," Dictionary of American Biography (21 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928-1944), IX (1932), 238-239.
               
                     by 1848, two and one-half million bushels were being produced in
                    the county annually. Similarly, David Tod, later Civil War governor of 
                        Ohio
                    , experimented in utilizing the coal of the Mahoning Valley and helped in the pioneer
                    industrial development of Youngstown.13
            
            Likewise, a number of towns and villages owed their importance to the production of iron. Before the
                    exploitation of the iron mines of northern 
                        Michigan
                    , iron mined in 
                        Ohio
                     and smelted in local furnaces was very important in the industrial life of the region.
                    Especially significant were the iron furnaces in the so-called Hanging Rock region of southern 
                        Ohio
                    , where in the villages of 
                        Gallipolis
                    , 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                        Wheelersburg
                    , and 
                        Hanging Rock
                    , there were twenty-two iron furnaces in 1849.14
            
            Numerous communities of the Northwest developed because of their location on Lake
                    Erie, Lake Huron, or Lake Michigan. 
                        Detroit
                    , founded in the French regime, was of continuing importance because of its strategic
                    position in relation to the Great Lakes. In 
                        Ohio
                    , one of the towns which developed because of its position in relation to Lake Erie, was
                    the place laid out as 
                        Portland
                     in 1817 but later called San-dusky. Before the completion of the 
                        Ohio
                     canals and to some extent thereafter, Sandusky was a popular port for those using Lake
                    Erie in going to and from the lower Mississippi Valley. After the completion of
                    the canals, 
                        Cleveland
                     became increasingly more important, and 
                        Toledo
                     grew in rapid fashion, as points where lake and canal traffic came together.
            
               
                        Chicago
                     was, of course, the most outstanding example of a village located on one of the Lakes
                    that developed in phenomenal fashion. At the head of the Great Lakes and directly on one of the
                    important routes into the interior, when the Lakes became more important with the completion of the
                    Erie Canal, 
                        Chicago
                    's great future seemed assured. In 1850 its population was almost a thousand
                    times what it had been in 1829. The growth of 
                        Chicago
                    , of course, was due to many factors, and like 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                    , it profited by the construction of a state canal system. To it, the 
                  
                     13
                            Historical Collections of the Mahoning Valley (
                                Youngstown
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1876), 27-28.
                  
                     14 Hunt's Merchants' Magazine (
                                New York
                            , 1839-1870), XXI (1849), 130.
               
                     building of the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     Canal, was a real boon as it was to interior towns like Peru and LaSalle.15
            
            In 
                        Wisconsin
                     Territory, the chief urban development during the decade of the 1830's was the
                    rise of the lake port, Milwaukee. As yet unfounded in 1830, by 1840 it had 1,700 inhabitants and by
                    1850, a population of 20,061.16
            
            Many villages and towns indeed were founded or developed as a result of the digging of the canals. In 
                        Ohio
                    , as elsewhere, some private donations were made by individuals to the canal fund,
                    sometimes on the condition that the route should pass through a particular locality. The
                    expectations that existed as a result of the plans are illustrated by a letter from Portsmouth in
                    October, 1827, "Business of every kind is very dull here; but we all hope to live on milk
                    and honey and without labor when we get the canal."17
            
            
               
                        Dayton
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     both profited greatly by their locations on the Miami Canal, but 
                        Cleveland
                     was especially benefited by the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal. In 1830 
                        Cleveland
                     was a small village of scarcely a thousand inhabitants, in marked contrast to the
                    twenty-five thousand who then comprised the population of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Gustave Koerner in 1833 found it "a small place,"18 but the completion of the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal from Portsmouth to 
                        Cleveland
                     was a great boon. During the decade from 1830 to 1840 it increased from 1,000 to 6,000
                    inhabitants, and it was described in 1843 as "a splendid city" with
                    "surpassingly elegant" country seats above and below it on the lake road.19
            
            
               
                        Toledo
                     was founded after 1830, when the prospects of a settlement at that place seemed
                    brighter because of the developing interest in a canal through northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    . By 1840 it had 1,112 inhabitants and 3,829 by 1850. 
                        Toledo
                     was to be the eastern terminus of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal built by 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. In the Hoosier State the development of this waterway was significant for
                    the growing 
                  
                     15 Bessie L. Pierce, A History of 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1937), I, 75ff., 44, 70-72, 119, 122.
                  
                     16
                            Tenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , XIX: Social Statistics of Cities, Part 2, pp. 660-661.
                  
                     17 John McDonald to D. McArthur, October 24, 1827, McArthur MSS,
                            Library of Congress.
                  
                     18 Thomas J. McCormack (ed.), Memoirs of Gustave Koerner,
                                1800-1896 (2 vols., 
                                Cedar Rapids
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1909), I, 280.
                  
                     19 James L. Scott, A Journal of a Missionary Tour through
                                        
                           Pennsylvania, Ohio
                        , Indiana, 
                           Illinois, Wisconsin
                         and 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      … (
                                Providence
                            , 1843), 15.
               
                     importance of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Peru
                    , 
                        Logansport
                    , and 
                        Lafayette
                    .20
            
            A large number of towns owed their origin to the speculative interest of the town founders. Sometimes
                    the city-builders considered matters of natural location and resources, but the initiative of
                    individuals often contributed to the development of one community rather than another which
                    possessed an equally advantageous natural location. Some of the proposed towns of course never
                    became more than villages on paper.
            In frontier days, one of the most important towns in 
                        Michigan
                     was Tecumseh in 
                        Lenawee County
                    . Proprietors of the place platted the village in 1824, and secured its recognition as a
                    post office and county seat. A sawmill, gristmill, and a store followed soon afterwards; but the
                    place became relatively less important when the county seat was transferred to Adrian in 1838.21
            
            As we have seen, 
                  Kaskaskia, Illinois
               , declined in importance when the county seat was
                    moved to 
                        Chester
                    . In 
                        Ohio
                    , before it became a state, real estate developers were so interested in the creation of
                    new county seats that territorial governor St. Clair felt impelled to veto a number of laws
                    establishing new counties. But the motivation continued, and finally in 1851, when the present 
                        Ohio
                     constitution was approved, it provided for no additional counties to be established
                    without an area of at least four hundred square miles.
            Similarly, other towns developed to some extent because they were designated as land office towns. In 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1813, 
                  Cincinnati, Chillicothe, Zanesville
               , Marietta, Steubenville, and Canton were land office centers,
                    as were 
                        Wooster
                    , 
                        Piqua
                    , and 
                        Tiffin
                     by 1820. In Indiana, 
                  Vincennes,
                            Jeffersonville, Indianapolis, Crawfordsville
               , and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , all served as land office towns, during the period before 1825.22
            
            In 
                        Michigan
                    , during the territorial period there were land offices at 
                        Detroit
                     (1818), 
                        Monroe
                     (1823), White Pigeon (1831), 
                        Kalamazoo
                     (1834), Flint (1836), and Ionia (1836). In 
                        Illinois
                     during its territorial period, 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Shawnee-town, 
                  
                     20 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 352ff.
                  
                     21 George N. Fuller, Economic and Social Beginnings of 
                                    Michigan
                                 … 1805-1837 (
                                Lansing
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , 1916), = 235-236.
                  
                     22
                            American State Papers, Public Lands, II (
                                Washington
                            , 1834), 875; ibid., VI (
                                Washington
                            , 1860), 629.
               
                     and Edwardsville prospered as land office towns as did other
                    places at a later date.
            In a more ambitious way, two important towns were established as state capitals, 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 
                  Ohio, Chillicothe
                and 
                        Zanesville
                     had, at different times, served as the state capital, but in 1812 a group of real
                    estate speculators had promised to give certain lands and buildings if their land, the present site
                    of 
                        Columbus
                    , were selected as the capital site, and to that forest-born community the seat of
                    government was moved in 1816. In Indiana, 
                        Vincennes
                     had been the territorial capital from 1800 to 1813; then Corydon had served for a dozen
                    years. In 1820 a site was selected for a new capital city. This was approved by the legislature the
                    next year when the first sales of lots took place, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     developed as the capital of a commonwealth.23 Similarly, in
                            
                  Illinois, Kaskaskia
                had been the capital during the territorial period; then
                    Vandalia served until 1839, when 
                        Springfield
                     became the permanent seat of state government.
            Some villages and towns developed primarily as educational centers. In this category we find Oberlin,
                    Gambier, 
                        Oxford
                    , and, to a lesser degree, 
                        Athens
                     and Hudson, in 
                        Ohio
                    . In 
                  Illinois, Jacksonville
               , practically from its founding, was a
                    college community.24 Towns such as 
                        Steubenville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     were not known primarily as educational centers, but their private schools before 1850
                    attracted students from other states besides 
                        Ohio
                    .
            In 
                  Michigan, Ann
                        Arbor
                was not established as a college community, but as early as 1832
                    it had gained a reputation for the excellence of its local academy, and by 1841 a traveler could
                    compare the buildings under construction for the state university with those of Union College at 
                        Schenectady
                     to the disadvantage of the latter.25
            
            Other towns developed as religious centers. Thus Kirtland, in northern 
                        Ohio
                    , had an extensive development under the Mormons from 1832 to 1837, as did Nauvoo, 
                        Illinois
                    , from 1839 to 1846. At its height, Nauvoo had a population 
                  
                     23 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 239-240, 277.
                  
                     24 Charles H. Rammelkamp, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 College, … 1829-1929
                                    (
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1928).
                  
                     25 Fuller, Economic and Social Beginnings of 
                                    Michigan
                                
                     , 231.
               
                     twice as great as 
                        Chicago
                     or Alton with a real problem as to how to sustain it over any extended period of
                        time.26
            
            Likewise, there were communistic settlements such as the Swedish colony known as Bishop Hill (1846)
                    in 
                  Henry County, Illinois
               , and the more famous 
                        New Harmony
                     community in Indiana. A recent writer has analyzed the history of more than a score of
                    such settlements in 
                        Ohio
                    .27
            
            A few villages were well-known at the time as health and recreational resorts. These included Yellow
                    Springs and 
                        Delaware
                     (both in 
                        Ohio
                    ), the latter the seat of a widely patronized Sulphur Springs.
            Few if any places were founded as manufacturing villages, but a favorable location for water power or
                    mineral supplies and accessible markets contributed to the development of many a village or town. In
                    pioneer days, much manufacturing was done on a local scale in small shops. Thus, Giles Richards, a
                    brother-in-law of Amos A. Lawrence, operated at 
                        Colerain
                    , a small village sixteen miles northwest of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a number of industries from 1822 to 1835. These included a cotton-mill, a flourmill, a
                    fulling and carding establishment, and sawmill, as well as a store, a tavern, and a dyehouse.
                    Farmers took the wool from their own sheep to the village mill to be twisted into yarn and perhaps
                    made into cloth.28
            
            Especially before 1840 there was much local manufacturing to meet the needs of an immediate vicinity.
                    This is illustrated in the case of the village of 
                        Granville
                    , Licking County. There, manufacturing establishments like an iron furnace and a
                    flourmill had been in operation before 1825. Ten articles made from metal brought from 
                        Canada
                     were also produced. Then came a factory specializing in old-fashioned open kitchen
                    clocks, selling at first for fifteen dollars. A hat factory (1828), a cast-iron plow works (1831), a
                    cheese factory (1833), a furniture establishment (1835), and shops producing brushes, boots, shoes,
                    candy, and rope 
                  
                     26 Theodore C. Pease, The Frontier State (Vol. II of
                                The Centennial History of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 5 vols., 
                        Springfield,
                                    Illinois
                     , 1918-1920), 348ff.,
                            399.
                  
                     27 Kenneth W. McKinley, "A Guide to the Communistic
                            Communities of 
                                Ohio
                            ," in 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historial Quarterly (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1887-), XLVI (1937), 1-15.
                  
                     28 Ophia D. Smith, Life and Times of Giles Richards,
                                1820-1860 (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1936), 17-20.
               
                     were in operation before 1840.29 Factory
                    operations on a large scale were centered in the larger cities, which in 1840 in 
                        Ohio
                     included 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Akron
                    , 
                  Dayton, Columbus, Zanesville
               , 
                        East Liverpool
                    , 
                        Newark
                    , and 
                        Canton
                    . 
                        Cleveland
                     had not yet become important industrially. The first coal brought to the city by canal
                    in 1827, had caused the skeptical to question the possibility of "black stones being made
                    to burn." Indeed, 
                        Cleveland
                    's industrial status before 1850 is suggested by the comments in the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Gazetteer for 1841: 
                        Manufacturing is not carried on extensively; there are, however, 2 steam engine shops, 1 iron
                            foundry, 1 sash factory, 1 brewery, 1 steam flouring mill, capable of making 120 barrels of
                            flour daily, 1 chair factory, 3 cabinet shops, etc., etc.30
                  
                    
                
            Indeed, the industrial revolution by 1850 had only lightly penetrated the whole Northwest except for
                    southern 
                        Ohio
                    . The Western Reserve region of 
                        Ohio
                    , later to become one of the great industrial regions of the country had as late as 1850
                    no towns of over 3,500 inhabitants, except 
                        Cleveland
                    , and such a later industrial community as Lorain was not even mentioned in the federal
                    census reports until 1880.
            The villages and towns of the Western Reserve as late as 1850 were the pleasant white-painted
                    communities reminiscent of the 
                        New England
                     countryside, often with a common in the center and a Congregational or Presbyterian
                    church nearby. Here lived persons interested in trade and the professions and in the agricultural
                    activity of the township. Not uncharacteristic of these towns was Painesville which was described by
                    a visitor in 1846: 
                        Painesville is one of the most beautiful villages in the West: it is somewhat scattered,
                            leaving ample room for the cultivation of gardens, ornamental trees and shrubbery. A
                            handsome public square of several acres, adorned with young trees, is laid out near the
                            centre of the town on which face some public buildings and private mansions.31
                  
                    
                
            On the other hand, before 1850 the most important manufacturing section of the whole Northwest was
                    the Miami country of southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     where industrial development 
                  
                     29 Henry Bushnell, The History of 
                                    Granville
                                
                      (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1889), 280ff.
                  
                     30 Jenkins, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Gazetteer (
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1839), 126.
                  
                     31 Henry Howe, Historical Collections of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1891), II, 294.
               
                     had attained a fairly advanced stage before 1820.32 Among the numerous communities with important industries was 
                        Dayton
                    . In 1840, in addition to its several cotton spinning factories, there was a large
                    carpet factory, then temporarily idle due to a lull in trade, two gun barrel and several
                    agricultural implement manufactories, as well as plants for making boot and shoe lasts, pegs, and
                    the wooden part of plows. Flourmills, distilleries, and a clock factory which turned out as many as
                    three thousand clocks each year, were other industries which were aided by the abundance of water
                    power and the ease of shipment by canal. The cotton factories employed mostly boys and girls. By
                    1850, other industrial units there included five oil mills which purchased from the neighboring
                    farmers about 160,000 bushels of flax-seed to be made into linseed oil; five foundries, and three
                    paper-mills. But 
                        Cincinnati
                    , before 1850, was the urban community par excellence of the West, the Queen City. In
                    1830, it was eight times as large as its nearest competitor in the whole Northwest, 
                        Dayton
                    , and in 1850 with 115,435 it far outdistanced 
                        Chicago
                     which had 29,963 and 
                        Columbus
                     with 17,882. The splendor of its development in contrast with that of other communities
                    of the region was equally striking. One traveler in 1833, exclaimed: 
                        At last I arrived at 
                                Cincinnati
                            . The fame of the extraordinary rise of this city had beforehand excited my
                            curiosity to the highest degree. 
                                Cincinnati
                             was never mentioned in America without the addition of such surnames as
                            "The Wonderful", "The Western Queen", etc. Flattering
                            epithets of this kind are generally exaggerated, at least they often appeared so to me: but,
                            in this instance, they were justified. 
                                Cincinnati
                             is in every respect an extraordinary city; the only one perhaps, on record,
                            which has, in the course of twenty-five years, sprung from nothing to a place of real
                            consequence. … Banks, University, Museum, Theatre, Athanaeum, Bazaar, and
                            Hospitals are now seen where a quarter of a century ago, nothing but the primitive forest
                            was standing untouched.33
                  
                    
                
            An extensive discussion of 
                        Cincinnati
                     as a maufacturing center cannot be undertaken, but before 1850 it was the great
                    meat-packing center of the West. As early as 1841 as many as 200,000 hogs alone were slaughtered
                    annually, 
                  
                     32 Frank P. Goodwin, "The Rise of Manufactures in the Miami
                            Country," in American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), XII (1907), 761-775.
                  
                     33 C. D. Aufwedson, The 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    Canada
                                 in 1832, 1833 and 1834 (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1834), II, 126-127.
               
                     enough, according to an ingenious calculation "that if
                    put into sausages of the ordinary diameter, it would make a girdle long enough to encompass the
                    whole globe along the line of the equator."34
            
            But 
                        Cincinnati
                    's manufacturing was well diversified. In 1834, a French observer made
                    pertinent observations on the versatility of the city's business life. He said: 
                        The Cincinnatians make a variety of household furniture and utensils, agricultural and
                            mechanical implements and machines, wooden clocks, and a thousand objects of daily use and
                            consumption, soap, candles, paper, leather, etc., for which there is an indefinite demand
                            throughout the flourishing and rapidly growing States of the West, and also in the new
                            States of the Southwest, which are wholly devoted to agriculture, and in which, on account
                            of the existence of slavery, manufactures cannot be carried on. Most of these articles are
                            of ordinary quality; the furniture, for instance, is rarely such as would be approved by
                            Parisian taste, but it is cheap and neat, just what is wanted in a new country, where, with
                            the exception of a part of the South, there is a general ease and but little wealth.35
                  
                    
                
            By the decade of the 1840's this city was the chief furniture manufacturing city of the
                    West, one firm alone manufacturing 180,000 chairs annually. It was also a great producing center of
                    boots, shoes, and ready-made clothing. By 1851, ready-made clothing workers in 
                        Cincinnati
                     numbered not only the 950 persons in the shops, but 9,000 women who did piece work in
                    their homes. It was also in 1850 the greatest distilling center in the world. And the future seemed
                    bright indeed. Horace Greeley after a visit there in 1850, exclaimed: 
                        It requires no keenness of observation to perceive that 
                                Cincinnati
                             is destined to become the focus and mart for the grandest circle of
                            manufacturing thrift on this continent. … I doubt if there is another spot on the
                            earth where food, fuel, cotton, timber, iron, can all be concentrated so cheaply
                            … as here. Such fatness of soil, such a wealth of mineral
                            treasure—coal, iron, salt, and the finest clays for all purposes of
                            use—and all cropping from the steep, facile banks of placid, though not sluggish
                            navigable rivers. How many Californias could equal, in permanent worth, this valley of the 
                                Ohio
                            !36
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  34 James S. Buckingham, The Eastern and Western States of
                            America (3 vols., 
                            London
                        , n.d.), II, 394.
               
                  35 Michael Chevalier, Society, Manners, and Politics in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Boston
                        , 1839), 202-203.
               
                  36 Charles Cist, 
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1851 (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1851), 257.
            
         
         
         
            An Analysis of Lincoln's Funeral Sermons
            JAY MONAGHAN
            
            An analysis of the sermons preached immediately after Lincoln's assassination discloses that
                    the religious sects— or at least the pastors—reacted in a way peculiar to
                    their creed. Some churches were vindictive, blaming Lincoln's assassination on the whole
                    South, crying for vengeance. Others pleaded for understanding and tolerance.
            It is easy to assume that the churches reflected the politics of their geographical
                    locations—with 
                        Boston
                     the fountain head of bile. This, however, was not the case. Most of the churches
                    represented a point of view at variance with that of the community–a denominational slant
                    which theological psychologists might enjoy explaining.
            The circumstances of Lincoln's assassination were perfect for evangelic appeal, and the
                    records provide unique material for investigation. Lincoln was shot on Good Friday,
                    Christ's Day. Ministers all over the Union had time to prepare special sermons for the
                    following Sunday. The North, in a state of ecstacy over the recent surrender of Robert E. Lee at 
                        Appomattox
                    , was shocked to hysteria by the tragic news. Supreme happiness and supreme sorrow,
                    dramatically superimposed, created an emotional excitement unparalleled in American history.
                    Congregations everywhere assembled in church to hear their own incoherent anger expressed suitably
                    by the pastor. Ministers recognized the responsibility and accepted the challenge.
            In Civil War days it was customary for the church elders to compliment the minister by publishing an
                    unusual sermon in pamphlet form for the congregation. Four hundred and four of Lincoln's
                    funeral sermons have been preserved, and it seems reasonable to assume that each one represented the
                    majority opinion of the congregation that published it. To determine the attitude of each sect, all
                    the published discourses were analyzed. The first task of the analyst was to separate the vindictive
                    and tolerant sermons. This is not so complicated as it sounds. True, there are degrees of tolerance
                    and vindictiveness. Some sermons are hard to classify, but the doubtful cases are surprisingly few.
                    Preachers of that day had little hesitancy in distinguishing right from wrong. Before drawing the
                    conclusions  set out below, ten per cent of the
                    sermons—questionable cases—were withdrawn. The remaining ninety per cent
                    displayed their colors in no uncertain terms. Can there be any question about the attitude of the
                    Reverend Henry Darling toward the South when he told his Presbyterian pastorate in 
                        Albany
                     that such a depraved assassin as Booth could not have ripened in any but the congenial
                    Southern soil? It is equally certain that the Reverend Daniel Rice felt the same way toward the
                    dying Confederacy when he told his congregation that the catastrophe was God's way of
                    goading the people to vengeance. The Reverend T. M. Hopkins of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, may be assumed to have been vindictive when he told his church that the
                    assassination might have been prevented if captured Confederates—Jeff Davis was not yet
                    among them—had been "hung as high as Haman, in the streets of 
                        Washington
                    ." Even more outspoken, the Reverend David Dyer, preaching to convicts at 
                        Albany
                     with words they could understand, said: 
                        After repeated acts of robbery and piracy on our Northern borders … after
                            persistent and earnest efforts to plunge us in war with foreign nations; after basely
                            attempting to burn at night 
                                New York
                             and other Northern cities; after destroying by slow and horrible tortures, in
                            Southern dungeons, thousands of our brave soldiers; now this hellish spirit has branded our
                            beloved President a tyrant, and has planned and accomplished his death.1
                  
                    
                
            In 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Elder Wallace Shelton, pastor of the colored brethren, in his Zion Baptist
                    congregation predicted that "no long time would elapse before Jeff Davis and his
                    fellow-conspirators would take up their abode in hell with that other traitor, Judas
                    Iscariot." President Andrew Johnson, according to Elder Shelton, was God's
                    instrument of vengeance to deal out retribution to traitors. Negroes were entitled to feelings of
                    hostility toward the South, but really impassioned vindictiveness was reserved for the Nordics. No
                    black man of record equaled the Reverend Edwin B. Webb shouting in Shawmut Church for extermination
                    of all rebels. "Hear me, patriots, sires of murdered sons, weeping wives and
                    orphans,—I say exterminated! … Make the halter certain to
                    the intelligent and influential, who are guilty of 
                  
                     1 David Dyer, Discourse occasioned by the assassination
                                of Abraham Lincoln, delivered in the -
                                    Albany
                                 Penitentiary … (
                                Albany
                            , 1865), 10.
               
                     perjury and treason." Then lapsing into a perroration
                    the Reverend Mr. Webb continued: 
                        Two ways under our ship of State are justice and mercy.
                            In the providence of God, block after block has been knocked away, prop after prop removed,
                            till now, just ready to glide into the new future, she is settling: all her weight upon her
                            ways,—ways made slippery by the blood of the murdered Chief Magistrate, and
                            Minister: woe, woe, woe to him who puts himself in the line of her course!
                            Infinitely better for him had he been strangled at the birth!2
                  
                    
                
            No one will mistake the roar of these lions for the supplications of the clerical lambs. Foremost
                    among the latter, the Reverend William T. Wilson told 
                        Albany
                     Episcopalians that the Confederates "have proved desperate rebels …
                    it is true, but they have proved also their gallantry on many a stricken field." In spite
                    of the evidence in Lincoln's assassination, he said, "no leader of the rebellion
                    could excite or approve of such a damning deed." The Reverend Henry Palethorp Hay in 
                        Philadelphia
                     admonished his flock to carry on the benign principles of Lincoln: "May calm
                    reason be our guide … while we mete out justice even tempered with mercy."
                    Equally unresentful, the Reverend A. B. Dascomb encouraged the young men in 
                        Waitsfield
                    , 
                        Vermont
                    , to profit by Lincoln's example and trust in God. The Reverend J. L. Janeway
                    drew the attention of his parish in 
                        Flemington
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , from the wicked Southerners by shifting the blame on God. "Another lesson
                    taught is, a solemn recognition of God's hand in the event. … Let us banish
                    vengeful feelings." The Reverend E. H. Randall in 
                  Randolph, Vermont
               ,
                    believed the assassination the North's penalty for relying on armies instead of on God. In 
                        Dedham
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , the Reverend Samuel Babcock proclaimed Lincoln's death, judgment on a wicked
                    nation. In 
                        New York
                     the Reverend N. L. Rice warned members of the Presbyterian Church on Fifth Avenue that
                    the assassination was "probably" permitted to make the nation look more to God.
            Such tolerant and impersonal addresses are easily winnowed from the sermons of hate.
            As soon as the tolerant and vindictive sermons are separated, the difference between the various
                    religious sects toward the South becomes apparent. The militancy of the 
                  
                     2 Edwin B. Webb, Memorial Sermons … (
                                Boston
                            , 1865), 60-61.
               
                     Reformation seems to have still run in the chancels of certain
                    churches. Heading the list of vindictiveness toward the Confederacy, the Unitarians'
                    collection of published sermons show 80 per cent to have been unrelentingly opposed to any clemency
                    for the conquered South. The Lutheran and Congregational sermons were 75 per cent and 74 per cent
                    vindictive. Next came the Presbyterians with 62 per cent. The Episcopalians, Methodists, and
                    Baptists were evenly split, fifty-fifty, for and against lenient reconstruction, if the sermons that
                    have survived may be used as an index. The Hebrews, Catholics, and Quakers stood aloof from the
                    political imbroglio, publishing few sermons on the subject. Those that are preserved breathe
                    condolence without vituperation.
            These conclusions may be attacked on the ground that the Unitarians and Congregationalists
                    predominated in 
                        New England
                    , hot-plate for abolitionism. Could not the high voltage vindictiveness in these
                    churches be attributed to environment? No! A survey of sermon-vindictiveness shows 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     to have led all the rest, but the majority of the Unitarian sermons did not come from
                    these two states. Also it is noticeable that 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were the most tolerant states according to all the sermons from these areas, yet most
                    of the Lutheran and Presbyterian sermons came from here. Indeed, it took the combined tolerance of
                    all the other sects to offset the vengeful attitude of these two churches and give the states a
                    tolerant rating. Of the four ranking churches, then, only one—the
                    Congregational—acted in conformity with its environment. Three out of the four did not.
                    Certainly denominational attitudes did not conform to geographical and political boundaries on the
                    question of harsh reconstruction of the South.
            These conclusions must be taken with some reservations. Perhaps three hundred and sixty-four sermons
                    are not sufficient for a fair sample of all the churches in the Northern states. Then, too, the
                    sermons analyzed may have conformed to the politics of the local precincts in which the churches
                    were located, and at the same time been at variance with the politics of the larger state areas. In
                    all the vindictive sermons there is a noticeable flavor of opportunism rationalized as morality.
                    Lincoln, it will be remembered, was  elected the second time by a
                    coalition of Republicans and Union Democrats. The two wings were quarreling for mastery of the party
                    at the time of his death. With reason the Republican wing realized that they could get no majority
                    at the polls if the Democratic South was readmitted to the Union with a restored right to vote. Not
                    only must Southern Democrats be disfranchised, but the Negro vote also must be attained in order to
                    hold a safe majority. The Democratic wing of the party, on the other hand, hoped to vanquish their
                    radical colleagues by re-enfranchising the Southern Democrats who had seceded from the Union.
                    Lincoln's death at the hands of a Southern fanatic gave the radicals an advantage. Surely
                    the people would not agree to re-enfranchise the murderers of the President! As the Reverend Henry
                    E. Parker told his congregation in 
                        Concord
                    , 
                        New Hampshire
                    , "This act will utterly destroy what little remaining sympathy there was in
                    any quarter for the falling cause of the confederacy." Another Congregationalist, the
                    Reverend Leonard Swain, in 
                  Providence, Rhode Island
               , reiterated the same sentiment when he said:
                    "We have overpowered our enemies [and agreed] that we can afford to be generous.
                    … All this is brought to an end at once and forever by this dreadful event."
            In 
                        Johnstown
                    , 
                        New York
                    , the Reverend Daniel Stewart told a church full of Presbyterians, "The feeling
                    of compassion for a conquered enemy should pass over into the feeling of revenge for an irreparable
                    act." In 
                  Boston, Harvard
               -educated Unitarian James Freeman Clarke, a liberal
                    protestant from Protestantism who dared decorate his church with all the splendor of a Catholic
                    cathedral, bluntly warned his congregation that rebel politicians were usurping the government. His
                    funeral voice thundered from the myterious shadows under purple drapes looped to the walls with
                    white flowers, "In dying [Lincoln] may have saved us from their audacious craft."
            The justice of enfranchising the ex-slaves was voiced by many ministers, unconscious, perhaps, of all
                    its aspects. The Reverend Richard Eddy disguised the political motive only slightly when he told his
                    congregation that justice called not for vengeance but for the full penalty of the law for treason,
                    utter extinction of rebellion and "the equality of all men [to vote?] before the
                    law." The political benefit of  keeping Southern
                    Democrats disfranchised was noted specifically by the Reverend W. H. Hornblower, Presbyterian
                    minister at 
                        Paterson
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , when he said of the rebels generally: "We are no longer to extend the hand
                    and welcome him back to all the rights and privileges of citizenship." In 
                        Cranbury
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , the Reverend Joseph G. Symmes told his Presbyterians that Negroes may be too ignorant
                    to vote, but the objection came poorly from those "who rush to thrust a ballot into the
                    hand of every [Democratic?] foreigner." Presbyterians in 
                  Caldwell, New Jersey
               ,
                    heard their pastor, the Reverend I. N. Sprague, admit frankly that the Negro vote "will be
                    needed, to counteract the foreign and Popish influence that is gaining such a strong
                    foothold." For originality of expression the laurels belong to a fundamentalist preacher in 
                        Champlain
                    , 
                        New York
                    . Scorning a recently published book by Charles Darwin, the Reverend Robert B. Yard told
                    his congregation of Methodist Episcopalians: 
                        Men have willingly assumed the doctrine that the African race is not human … that
                            the African was but a superior type of Orang Outang. The same class of reasoning was adopted
                            years ago to prove that the Dutch originally were fish, which being left high and dry by the
                            tide, gradually accommodated themselves to the change of circumstances. The tails being no
                            longer useful gradually wore away. … The popular objections to the peculiar
                            physical structure of the African are simply absurd. … The fact is unquestioned
                            that if the negro be condemned on craniological principles, we must concede the highest type
                            of female beauty, the statue of Venus, to represent the head of an idiot. It is claimed that
                            the African has always been in subjection, when the truth is, that the negroes have never
                            been conquered by the whites.3
                  
                    
                
            Quite naturally radical politicians took advantage of every evidence of popular approval of Negro
                    equality which strengthened the structure of their party. The line between Christian ethics and
                    party politics is hard to draw in this instance. Vindictive reconstruction with Negro suffrage would
                    save the party and at the same time soothe the most exacting conscience. The by-elections were a
                    year and a half away. During that time party leaders might profit by watching or aggravating the
                    sentiments of their constituents. Lincoln's body was taken back to 
                        Springfield
                     with triumphal mourning, following almost the exact route the living 
                  
                     8 Robert B. Yard, The Providential Significance of the
                                Death of Abraham Lincoln … (
                        Newark, New Jersey
                     ,
                            [1865]), 11-12.
               
                     man had taken from the prairies to the White House. During the
                    trip no tragic appeal to the populace was overlooked. Radical haters of the South, men who wanted
                    "traitors" punished with the extreme penalty of the law, saw to it that
                    Lincoln's corpse bore traces of the horror of assassination. Undertakers were denied the
                    privilege of treating the dead man's skin to make it look as though he were asleep.4 The people must see Lincoln in death—murdered by the Confederacy. A
                    million people did see him in all his ghastliness and seven millions more, it was reported, watched
                    at rural stations as the funeral train swept by. But, in spite of the studied drama, the passage of
                    time healed the people's passions. The vindictiveness of the sermons preached after the
                    first outburst on April 16 became less pronounced. On the first Sunday after the assassination 78
                    per cent of the sermons published recommended, as did the Reverend John Chester in 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        D. C.
                    , that the government inflict "the heaviest penalties of the law on the
                    unprincipled, unrepentant leaders and instigators of this rebellion." Ministers quoted at
                    length from the Bible to show that people must suffer for their sins. The Reverend David Swing, who
                    claimed to know God's will and certainly understood the people's, told his
                    congregation at 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , "God is not willing that the voice of mercy
                    shall be heard." This vindictiveness had begun to subside by prayer meeting night, April
                    19. The sermons, also published and preserved, of this later day disclose that only 72 per cent of
                    the ministers retained their original rancor toward the South. The heat of rage was consuming
                    itself. By June 1, the day set aside for humiliation and prayer by Lincoln's successor,
                    Andrew Johnson, only 63 per cent of the sermons cried for vengeance. This was the last date on which
                    funeral addresses were published in quantity, so this analysis cannot be carried further, but
                    obviously the people's anger at the South was diminishing. Radical politicians would have
                    to resort to some other stimulant to hold the advantage they had gained by the death of Lincoln.
                    What they decided to do is a part of our political history.
            Another noticeable thing about these funeral addresses was the spontaneous appearance of similar
                    ideas at distances too great for easy plagiarism. Perhaps it was not remarkable 
                  
                     4 Lloyd Lewis, Myths after Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 122.
               
                     for ministers to be struck by the coincidence of
                    Lincoln's death on Good Friday. The Reverend Abraham Grater of 
                        Skippackville
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , was only one of many to call the attention of his congregation to the fact that Jesus
                    and Lincoln both died to make men free. The Reverend Dr. Charles Cooke noted the same comparison in 
                        Smyrna
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    , and explained that the Savior of the World died for the sins of men, while the savior
                    of the nation died for the sins of the South.
            More remarkable was the spontaneous recognition of the fact that Lincoln's assassination
                    resembled that of William the Silent, and that the 
                        United States
                     would be united by it as the United Netherlands had been 250 years earlier. This
                    simile, voiced in the 
                        New York
                     legislature on the day Lincoln died, appeared in funeral sermons twenty-four hours
                    later in 
                        Rhode Island
                    , in 
                        Maine
                    , and in 
                  Albany, New York
               .6 Within a week the comparison
                    was commonly used, even in remote places.6
            
            Condemning the whole South for the act of madman Booth was also common in the vindictive sermons.
                    Charles Sumner, leader of the Radicals who hoped to subjugate the South politically, told a 
                        Boston
                     meeting, "But do not be too vindictive in heat towards the poor atom that held
                    the weapon. Reserve your rage for the responsible power," and "Vote for
                    me" he might have added. The Reverend Wilbur Paddock admonished his Philadelphians that
                    Booth "was no more guilty than the pistol he held." The Reverend Samuel F. Miller,
                    in a funeral oration at 
                  Franklin, New York
               , thundered, "Oh! let us not,
                    in our desire to punish the accomplices and tools, allow the great criminal to escape."
                    Jeff Davis and Robert E. Lee were pointed out by many divines as suitable figures to be killed in
                        retaliation.7 One good Presbyterian asked, "Who will be able to
                    separate in thought 
                  
                     5 Augustus Woodbury, The Son of God calleth the Dead to
                                life, A Sermon suggested by the assassination of Abraham Lincoln …
                                    (
                        Providence, Rhode Island
                     , 1865), 23; Alfred E. Ives, Victory
                                Turned into Mourning … (
                                Bangor
                            , 
                                Maine
                            , 1865), 5-6; Alexander S. Twombly, The Assassination of Abraham
                                Lincoln … (
                                Albany
                            , 1865), 15-16; Robert Davidson, The Lessons of the Hour
                            … (
                        Huntington, New York
                     , 1865), 9.
                  
                     6 John Farquhar, The Claims of God to Recognition in the
                                Assassination of President Lincoln … (
                        Lancaster, Pennsylvania
                     , 1865), 4-5.
                  
                     7 J. W. Bain, National Lessons from the Life and Death of
                                President Lincoln … (
                        Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
                     , 1865), 5.
               
                     the murder of the President, from Davis' persistent
                    effort to murder the Union?"8 Marked originality was shown by the
                    Reverend William Blackburn, at 
                        Trenton
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , when he blamed the assassination on the antiwar Democrats, the Copperheads. This may
                    have been acceptable doctrine in 
                        New Jersey
                    , but in 
                        Ohio
                    , where a different public enemy threatened, the Reverend S. L. Yourtee was sure that
                    the assassination plot "originated in the councils of the notorious Knights of the Golden
                    Circle." With a gift for language worthy of a larger church the Reverend Mr. Yourtee summed
                    up the Confederate effort to secede in memorable words: "Dissolve the Union, and you throw
                    back the sun of civilization and redemption a thousand years on the dial-plate of time."
            Culpability of the South for the deaths of other presidents before Lincoln was also pronounced from
                    several pulpits simultaneously. The Reverend George Duffield, in, a stinging sermon to the
                    Presbyterians in 
                        Detroit
                    , declared that agents of the South had administered slow poison to Presidents Harrison
                    and Taylor and attempted by similar means to kill Buchanan. The South, he shouted angrily, starved
                    Northern prisoners of war, and when this failed to make their deaths sufficiently loathsome, yellow
                    fever was imported from the West Indies to finish the survivors. In North Cole-brook, 
                        Connecticut
                    , the Reverend William Goodwin told his congregation that two presidents and perhaps
                    Douglas had been poisoned by the South—the South boasts it. This curious criminal record
                    had been fixed on the South in 1864 by John Smith Dye in a horrendous paperback, The
                        Adder's Den. Surely no minister of the gospel read such a scurrilous publication
                    unless he considered it necessary to be informed and thus warn his flock.
            Some clergymen pointed to Lincoln's assassination as a lesson for all sinful theatre-goers.
                    The Reverend Joseph F. Tuttle, president of 
                        Wabash
                     College, told worshippers at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, that Lincoln would not have been killed had he abstained from the play as he
                    did from liquor and narcotics. In 
                  Jacksonville,
                            Illinois
               —
                        Boston
                     of the prairies—the Reverend Dr. Livingston Maturin Glover told
                    Presbyterians, 
                  
                     8 Henry A. Nelson, The Divinely Prepared Rider
                            … (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1865), 32.
               
                    
                    
                        "God had a purpose but it is obscure—perhaps it was punishment for some
                            error the people committed in the past. Perhaps it is a warning for the future …
                            I confess myself incapable of reading the lesson at present."
                    
                
            Dr. Glover questioned the assumption that God permitted Lincoln to be killed for being out of His
                    protection at the theatre. Other tolerant ministers deplored Lincoln's lapse without
                    accusing God of smiting him for the sin. So in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, the Reverend T. M. Hopkins regretted that Lincoln went to the theatre and in 
                        Schraalenberg
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , the Reverend W. R. Gordon thought it unfortunate that the catastrophe caught the
                    President in the "Devil's Schoolhouse." Opposition to the stage was by no
                    means restricted to the rural areas. In 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        D. C.
                    , the Reverend Dr. Phineas D. Gurley, pastor of the 
                        New York
                     Avenue Presbyterian Church which Lincoln attended, pointed out to his congregation that
                    the horrid event branded the South as "the very spirit of darkness and of the pit"
                    as well as suggesting "a lesson touching the character and influence of the
                    theatre." In 
                        Washington
                     the Reverend Charles H. Hall expressed his opinion by telling the worshippers at the
                    Church of the Epiphany, "Brethren, I would that he had been a church-member."
            Denominations with a highly trained clergy were profuse in apologies for Lincoln's cultural
                    shortcomings. In 
                        New York
                    , as might be expected, the Reverend Dr. John McClintock told filled pews at Saint
                    Paul's, "Certainly it was not intellectual grandeur that so drew all hearts toward
                    Lincoln." Before closing, the New Yorker also called his congregation's attention
                    to the fact that Wall Street bought gold for a rise on receipt of the news of Lincoln's
                    death. In 
                        Boston
                    —
                        Jacksonville
                     of the seaboard—the New Yorker's appraisal of Lincoln's
                    lack of intellectual grandeur was enhanced by a hint that the martyred President was stupid also, no
                    subject even for limited education. "Our good President never knew, never could
                    know," said the Reverend George C. Chaney, "the wickedness and spite of the
                    enemies of his country."9
            
            The most remarkable thing about all the sermons preached after Lincoln's assassination is
                    the fact that scarcely any of them offer explanations acceptable three generations 
                  
                     9 Lewis, Myths after Lincoln, 114-115.
               
                     later. For vision, practicalness, and honest effort to make
                    amends for Lincoln's tragic death, the Reverend Peter Russell, Episcopalian, was
                    outstanding. In his sermon preached in 
                        Eckley
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , soon after the tragic news had been received, he said: 
                        The people of the Southern section of our country have made large claims for the superiority
                            of their civilization. … These claims are now on trial before the world.
                            … "We wait to hear what they will say."
                    On June 1, the Reverend Russell reported (erroneously) to his congregation, "There
                    is as yet no evidence that a single Christian minister of any body of Christian people raised his
                    voice against it."10
            
            With good reason the inflamed North believed the South a barbarous territory, subject for harsh
                    repression. From town and city, East and West, came the oft-repeated theme that the assassination
                    was a plea from God for sterner measures, an act of God to rouse the people to the danger of being
                    lenient to traitors.11 In Omaha the Reverend F. M. Dimmick asked himself one of
                    those discoursive questions ministers enjoy. "Was there danger in the clemency of his
                    [Lincoln's] great heart?" In 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the Reverend Reuben Jeffery concluded that God took Lincoln because his work was done.
                    "Possibly, had he survived," the Reverend Frank L. Robbins told members of
                    Greenhill Presbyterian Church in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , "his disposition would have inclined him to a too lenient policy toward the
                    leaders of this atrocious rebellion." Also in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the City of Brotherly Love, majestic Phillips Brooks, with the tutored tongue of nine
                    generations of praying men, blamed Lincoln's murder on the administration's
                    "weak concessions and timid compromises." "I charge this murder where it
                    belongs," he trumpeted above the upturned faces of worshippers in the Church of the Holy
                    Trinity. "Teach it to your wondering children."
            In 
                        East Saginaw
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , the Reverend H. L. More-house preached that God permitted Lincoln's
                    assassination to offset "a mawkish humanitarianism advocating plenary pardon. …
                    Hanging is a word which shocks some ears. 
                  
                     10 Peter Russell, Our Great National Reproach
                            … (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1865), 9, 25-26.
                  
                     11 Parquhar, The Claims of God, 18-19.
               
                     Treason in the highest, and rebellion against God shocks
                    mine."
            The Reverend William W. Olsen told his 
                  Scarsdale,
                            New York
               , congregation,
                    "Perhaps evil plottings have been now permitted to succeed because more is to be gained by
                    the death than by the continued life of our President." The Reverend J. D. Pierce of 
                        North Attleboro
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , also went on record as one who saw some benefit in Lincoln's death.
                    "We think we can see that the probable course of President Lincoln in the sequel of the
                    rebellion would not have commended itself to the … majority of his
                    constituents," he told the Universalist congregation. "Is it not for him well,
                    that he has been taken away while his garland was fresh and green?… Now, his reputation
                    is secure." Rationalizing this thought on a higher plane, the Reverend William A. Snively
                    told his followers, "It may be that the Infinite Wisdom saw that there was too much
                    kindness in that great heart to meet the stern issues of penalty which justice demands."
                    God removed Lincoln, the Reverend Mr. Snively concluded, to give place to one better
                    "fitted to be the minister of vengeance." In 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, the Reverend H. R. Naylor said, "Perhaps the hour had come when one
                    of harder heart, and more iron arm was necessary to fill the Executive chair to carry out
                    God's will." The same consolation was expressed by the Reverend Richard B. Duane
                    in 
                        Providence
                    : "There was another danger into which we were drifting … even our
                    beloved President himself. It was a mistaken leniency. … It is some comfort to know now
                    that this danger at least has passed away."12
            
            Vice-President Johnson's fitness to carry on received diverse appraisals. Radical preachers
                    were reassured by Johnson's record. He had dared call secessionists
                    "traitors" to their faces. On the other hand, Johnson had been reported on
                    inauguration day to be under the influence of alcohol. He had been noisy on the platform, spoke
                    incoherently, it was said. Preachers were baffled in their efforts to appraise such a man. The
                    Reverend Henry E. Parker, in 
                        Concord
                    , 
                        New Hampshire
                    , expressed Puritanic misgivings. "It seems, at the least," he said,
                    "a fearful experiment … to put the highest authority of this government into the
                        
                  
                     12 Richard B. Duane, A Sermon preached in Saint
                                John's Church … (
                        Providence, Rhode Island
                     , 1865),
                            11.
               
                     hands of a man who has so recently and unutterably disgraced
                    himself." Across in 
                        Vermont
                    , the Brattleboro minister, Pliny H. White, had no such apprehensions. "Woe
                    unto you that laugh now, for ye shall mourn and weep," he exulted. Andrew Johnson, he
                    pointed out, was not elected President. "But while Abraham Lincoln was the choice of the
                    people, Andrew Johnson was the choice of God. … If we cannot trust God to choose our
                    Chief Magistrate for us, whom can we trust?" The Reverend Mr. White hoped that Johnson
                    might be excused for being drunk on March 4. "In one particular the President has already
                    shown himself entitled to our utmost confidence—his settled determination to exact
                    justice to the guilty authors of the rebellion."
            God's desire to remove Lincoln on account of his leniency was questioned by the skeptical
                    Reverend S. L. Yourtee in 
                  Springfield, Ohio
               . "This may be even so, and it may
                    not, we cannot tell," he concluded. In any event the South needed a ruler like
                    "Beast" 
                        Butler
                     and now they had one. "Moreover he [Johnson] has made a solemn pledge not to
                    taste a drop of intoxicating liquor while he is President." At 
                        Schenectady
                     the Reverend Denis Wortman also alleged that Lincoln's assassination was no
                    cause for despair. "God … had a special work for our late President to do. That
                    work is done. He has another work now perhaps, and for that other work appoints another
                    man." "We will not cast him off for this single fault [of being drunk]. No!!
                    No!!!"
            Lincoln's wife's church in 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , like
                    the Presbyterian Church in 
                        Washington
                     to which she later belonged, ranked with the vindictive pastorates. Both also failed to
                    divine the immortality of Abraham Lincoln. Both were kind to the memory of the stricken man but both
                    deplored his shortcomings. At 
                        Springfield
                    , on the Sunday following Lincoln's burial, the Reverend Henry A. Nelson,
                    Presbyterian pastor from Saint Louis, spoke the accepted ecclesiastical opinion of
                    Lincoln's intelligence: 
                        Doubtless more brilliant men than he have served the nation under his orders. Minds of more
                            rapid movement, perhaps of greater comprehension, certainly of more varied and extensive
                            learning, have aided his by their counsel.13
                  
                    The Reverend Mr. Nelson may have formed his judgment 
                  
                     13 Nelson, The Divinely Prepared Ruler, 17.
               
                     on the testimony of Lincoln's neighbors. He was not
                    personally acquainted with the deceased President. As a citizen, as well as a churchman, he had
                    studied Lincoln's character and in doing so he discovered the thing that would impress the
                    minds of three generations of Lincoln admirers; Nelson said: 
                        I understand … that he had never here been known as a professor of religion. But
                            that he was an honest believer … is generally understood; and … I may
                            say that during the last two or three years, if not ever since his elevation to office, his
                            published language and his public deportment have increasingly, and very decidedly impressed
                            us as altogether becoming to a Christian.14
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  14
                        Ibid., 21.
            
         
         
         
            Murder at 
                        New Albany
                    ; A Rare 1821 Imprint
            KENNETH R. SHAFFER
            
            John Dahmen was born in 
                        Cologne
                     in 1791. From his thirteenth year, when he ran away from his family, his life was
                    punctuated by a series of violent and sanguinary criminal adventures. He robbed, maimed, and
                    murdered as much for the pleasure of misusing his victims as for profit. His satisfaction in every
                    sort of excess and deceit soon brought him to the attention of the police of half a dozen countries.
            Dahmen's personality was as disarming as his enmity was deadly. He was a small man, well
                    built, and very handsome. His charm and incalculable nerve admitted him to a military academy in 
                        Metz
                     where he learned to dance and fence and to affect the manners of a gentleman and
                    officer. He became an intimate of Prince Murat, whom he served. Such elegant surroundings taught him
                    new and more refined vices; the duelling sword, for which he had a genius, provided him with
                    adventure as well as a living. Gambling and forgery took the place of his youthful barbarities.
                    After surviving the horrors of Napoleon's Russian campaign, he returned to 
                        Paris
                     in 1814, where he refused, with his fellow soldiers, to take the oath of allegiance to
                    Louis XVIII, and so was discharged. The following year he joined Blucher and participated in
                    Bonaparte's defeat at Waterloo.
            To escape arrest for a substantial forgery which he had committed in Murat's service, Dahmen
                    fled, in 1817, to the 
                        United States
                    . When his ship docked at 
                        Baltimore
                     in February, he was unable to pay for his passage and was accordingly bound over to a 
                        Kentucky
                     plantation owner on whose land he worked, married, and raised a family. He removed to 
                        New Albany
                     in 1820, and immediately made trouble by settling on land for which he had no title.
                    Before this matter could be cleared up he became the principal of one of the most notorious murder
                    trials of the early Midwest.
            Reuben Kidder's account of these exploits, The Life and Adventures of John
                        Dahmen, is an extraordinary book in several ways. Printed in 
                        New Albany
                     in 1821, it is among the earliest of Indiana imprints, and only two copies are known to
                    exist. The copy in the Indiana University Library was recently acquired from Ernest J. Wessen, a
                    discriminating  dealer in rare books, who waited until it had
                    been purchased to write: "When I dipped into it, I went off the deep end. I think it is the
                    most outstanding Mid-western item of its type and is destined to remain so."
            Each generation produces its own classic murder trial. Although Indiana in the early days had the
                    reputation for some very romantic desperadoes, the trial of John Dahmen was attended with great
                    interest and enthusiasm. It was the event of the year. In colorfulness, bravado, imagination and in
                    the principal element of the picaresque, the personality of the defendant, it lacked none of the
                    ingredients for a large and fascinated audience.
            Frederick Nolte, a baker at 
                        New Albany
                    , had disappeared mysteriously early in 1820. Sometime later his mutilated and obviously
                    murdered body was discovered, and Dahmen, who lived about twenty miles from the city, was charged
                    with the crime. Dahmen confessed readily and volunteered to relate with utter dispassion the details
                    of an additional murder, that of John Jenzer whom he had dispatched a few days after disposing of
                    Nolte. He was immediately placed in irons and jailed with two horse thieves. In spite of the
                    precautions, all three managed to break out, and Dahmen, after he had killed one of the thieves
                    named Linthecomb, fled to 
                        Canada
                     where he was protected by the unwillingness of the British government to exercise the
                    laws of extradition.
            Dahmen's whereabouts in 
                        Canada
                     became known through a letter which he sent to his wife in 
                        New Albany
                    . A sheriff and two deputies made the long overland trip to 
                        Detroit
                     and there perfected a ruse to lure Dahmen across the border. Pretending that his wife,
                    whom they alleged to be pregnant, was in their custody, they offered to deliver her to him near 
                        Detroit
                     for fifty dollars. Dahmen, who was devoted to his spouse, was induced to cross the
                    border whereupon he was promptly seized by a sizable posse which had been recruited from the
                    neighborhood. Returned to 
                        New Albany
                    , he was guarded night and day by two men with loaded rifles behind locked doors. There
                    he was tried and on July 6, 1821, he was publicly hanged.
            During the trial the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Chronicle announced 
                  
                     1
                            
                                New Albany
                            , Indiana, Chronicle, May 19, 1821.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., June 23, 1821.
               
                     to its readers that "we delayed publication of this
                    day's paper in consequence of the trial."1 Public emotions
                    developed to such a state that a few days before the execution the editor replied to subscribers who
                    found fault with his accounts of the proceedings: "Those who are displeased with the paper
                    shall not be coaxed to continue their names on my list."2 On July 6,
                    more than 3,000 persons gathered from the surrounding settlements to see Dahmen hanged.
            Reuben Kidder, the author of The Life and Adventures of John Dahmen, was counsellor
                    in Dahmen's defense. He had already tried his hand at authorship, for in 1819 Edmund Dana
                    credited him with having "put the material together" for his Geographical Sketches on the Western Country published in 
                        Cincinnati
                    .3 He was well known on the third circuit as a lawyer of
                    considerable ability. Much of his material was gathered from Dahmen in the process of building his
                    defense. Later, when the case had been lost, Kidder reported that Dahmen, who was chained to the
                    jail floor, was very glad for his company and more than willing to pass the time recounting his
                    earlier exploits.
            Considering the immense popularity of the trial, it is almost certain that Kidder's book was
                    issued in a relatively large edition. Inspite of such a probability, no copies are recorded in
                        Walker4 or McMurtrie5 and none were reported as being
                    held in any library in Indiana by the WPA American Imprints Survey.6 The Union
                    Catalog records that the only other known copy is in the Law Library of the Library of Congress. The
                    only plausible explanation for the failure to survive of what must have been a pioneer best-seller,
                    is that the book was so sought for that it was simply worn out with reading.
            But these two copies are not of the first edition! The first edition, a pamphlet, has apparently
                    disappeared, but not without effect, for it disturbed John Dahmen. Shortly before his execution,
                    Dahmen regretted having spoken so 
                  
                     3 Edmund Dana, Geographical Sketches oh the Western
                                Country.… (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1819), 3.
                  
                     4 Mary Alden Walker, The Beginnings of Printing in the
                                State of Indiana (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , 1934).
                  
                     5 Douglas C. McMurtrie, "Indiana Imprints, 1804-1849; A
                            Supplement…." Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897-), XI (1937), 303-393.
                  
                     6 Duplicates of these records are on file at the Indiana State
                            Library.
               
                     freely to his attorney, for he discovered that these
                    conversations had become the source of a biographical "pamphlet" issued under
                    Kidder's name. The Indiana University copy, which must be presumed to be a second edition,
                    records that, through the agency of friends, Dahmen inserted a "certificate" in
                    the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Chronicle which repudiated Kidder's work. Kidder mentions this in the
                    copy at hand in order to present a letter from Judge Seth Woodruff, who presided at the trial, which
                    attests the authority and reliability of Kidder's biography. Woodruff's letter,
                    which is dated July 4, states: 
                        Since a certificate signed by Dahmen has been published,7 stating that
                            the declarations and confessions made by him and contained in Mr. Kidder's pamphlet
                            were mere idle stories, not founded in fact, I have, at Dahmen's special request
                            heard him in prison relate the story and adventures of his whole life not ten days before
                            his execution; all of which he solemnly declared to me were facts.8
                  
                    
                
            This certainly indicates that Kidder had issued an earlier pamphlet or book—while Dahmen
                    was still alive. The revision in the form of the copies which have survived was apparently made
                    after Dahmen's execution in order to provide additional copies for the market and to
                    include Woodruff's rebuttal to Dahmen's attack on its first appearance.
            What is most unclear about Woodruff's letter is that he wrote on July 4, two days before
                    Dahmen was hanged, as though the execution were a fait accompli. That Dahmen was
                    not executed until July 6, is established elsewhere in the book and is substantiated by the records
                    which are available today at the 
                        Floyd County
                     Court House at 
                        New Albany
                    .9 On the verso of the title page, the book carries a notice that it
                    was registered with the Clerk of the District of Indiana on June 27, 1821, ten days before the final
                    events which it describes took place. This is of no signifance, however, for it was common practice
                    before the present copyright laws were passed for authors to protect themselves by filing a
                    statement of intention to write and publish rather than by filing a copy of the finished
                    publications.
            
               
                  7 Files of the 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Chronicle at the American Antiquarian Society and the Indiana State Library,
                        both of which are incomplete, show no appearance of such a "certificate."
               
                  8 Reuben Kidder, The Life and Adventures of John Dahmen.
                        … (
                            Jeffersonville
                        , Indiana, 1821), 19.
               
                  9
                        
                            Floyd County
                         Circuit Court. Book A, p. 496. (This information was supplied by Oda L. Pyle, Clerk
                        of the Court.)
            
            
            Nathaniel Bolton and George Smith, Kidder's publishers, were also not without distinction.
                    They had previously published the first newspaper in 
                        Clark County
                    , at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . The name of this paper as well as all copies, has not survived. Soon after
                    Dahmen's execution in 1821, they moved north to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where they published the first newspaper at the new state capitol.
            THE/LIFE AND ADVENTURES/OF/JOHN DAHMEN,/THE MURDERER OF/Frederick Nolte and John Jenzer;/CHIEFLY
                    CONSISTING OF HIS/ORAL CONFESSIONS AND DECLARATIONS, TAKEN/DOWN IN PRISON./Also /A BRIEF
                    STATEMENT/OF HIS/TRIAL AND EXECUTION./ By REUBEN KIDDER,/Counsellor at law./JEFFERSONVILLE:/Smith
                    & Bolton, Printers./ 1821. (108p. 17 1/2 cm. Bds, cl. backstrip)
         
         
         
            The First Printing Press of the University of Notre Dame
            JAMES A. CORBETT
            
            Five years ago the Congregation of Holy Cross which conducts the University of Notre Dame built a
                    modern printing plant and installed the most modern printing presses in it. This rejuvenation marked
                    the seventy-fifth anniversary of a printing plant which had been started in 1865 by Father Edward
                    Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame. It shows too that the increasing number of publications of the
                    University kept pace with the rapid growth of the University between the two world wars and made
                    necessary a new and modernized press.
            But the printing press bought in 1865 was not the first press at Notre Dame. As early as 1845 when
                    the University of Notre Dame was only a year and a few months old, Father Sorin, whose energy and
                    healthy ambition was only partially restrained by poverty, purchased a press secondhand in nearby 
                        Niles
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    . It became the first university press in Indiana and apparently the first university
                    press in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The term university press is not easy to define, particularly for the nineteenth century. Even the
                    term university was frequently used with a different connotation than today. Notre Dame received a
                    charter from the State of Indiana in January, 1844, to grant university degrees. Legally then it was
                    a university. In fact it was far from what would today be called a university. For in 1844 it was,
                    like many another university of the time, a grammar school and high school with a few students
                    studying Latin and Greek and working for an A.B. degree. A similar elasticity of meaning may be
                    found in the term university press. Today we associate the term with an institution which prints and
                    publishes works or journals of a serious academic character.
            The whole subject of university presses in the 
                        United States
                     has been very ably studied by Dr. John Lane in a doctoral dissertation of the
                    University of 
                        Chicago
                    .1 Because of the magnitude of the undertaking and the difficulty of
                    precise definition of terms, Dr. Lane was led to draw a line 
                  
                     1 John Lane, The Place of the Printing Press in American Universities,
                            MS, Doctoral dissertation of the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1941.
               
                     on the meaning of the term university press. To save time and
                    labor,—and one can readily sympathize with this objective when one has seen his
                    work,—he excludes from consideration in his classification those universities whose
                    publications did not bear the imprint: University Press, or some similar expression. Thus a
                    university press which may have been in existence for many years only becomes a university press
                    when one of its publications bears the imprint: University Press.
            While readily understanding the motives which lead to this decision, the decision still remains
                    somewhat arbitrary. According to it the first university press was that of Cornell which lasted from
                    1869 to 1884.2 In the same year, 1869, the University Press Company was started
                    at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The third university press is then listed as follows: 
                        1883. The University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana had operated its second printing
                            plant since 1865. The publications of 1883, and possibly some earlier ones, were produced by
                            this plant with the "university press" imprint. It is not certain that the
                            University failed in any subsequent period to employ versions of the imprint in some of its
                            publications. Thus the University of Notre Dame appears to be the oldest continuous user of
                            the imprint: "University Press."3
                  
                    Here it is clearly seen that the Notre Dame press is classified in third place on a
                    technicality—the use of two words at the bottom of the title page. It would seem more
                    logical to classify this University of Notre Dame press first since it was founded in 1865 and the
                    direction and organization of its work was similar in 1883 to what it was in 1865.
            In his classification of university presses, Dr. Lane omits entirely the first Notre Dame press of
                    1845-1847, although he does include material on it in the appendix. In this article we wish to
                    describe this first press and give additional material which has come to light since Dr. Lane wrote
                    his thesis.
            In 1845 Notre Dame was a small school indeed. Late in November, 1842, Father Sorin accompanied by
                    seven Brothers had arrived at the banks of two small lakes just north of 
                        South Bend
                    . They passed the winter of 1842-1843 in a log cabin which had been built eight years
                    earlier by Father 
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 18.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 18.
               
                     Stephen Theodore Badin as a missionary station. Between the day
                    of their arrival and the spring of 1844, Father Sorin and his Brothers had built another log cabin
                    to serve as a chapel and a novitiate, a square two story brick building and the first college
                    building. Everything was relatively small for poverty and enrollment were all-powerful determinants
                    in planning the college. The studies of those days were elementary. In a few cases, they were of
                    college caliber if the students were old enough and had what was considered sufficient background.
                    From these few suggestions of what frontier education was in the 1840's, it is natural to
                    wonder why Father Sorin needed a printing press. And yet the reasons were rather obvious. To found a
                    college with very little money is no easy feat. Father Sorin, a born optimist, thought that by
                    printing books and selling them throughout the region that he could not only give a new impetus to
                    his missionary and educational effort but increase his income as well. Besides, it would be cheaper
                    he thought to print the textbooks needed for the young university than to buy them. Again he wanted
                    the press to print in English the Rules and Constitutions of the religious
                    organization for his Brothers, and the Sisters who had joined him since his arrival. Finally it
                    would be helpful for doing the odd job printing for the university and the community.4
            
            The press seems to have been bought in the spring of 1845 for Father Sorin wrote to the Superior of
                    St-Mary-of-the-Woods on April 30 of that year offering to print the Sisters' Constitutions
                    when the press was delivered.5 It was only in October of the same year, however,
                    that Father Sorin wrote of the new acquisition to Father Moreau, who lived in 
                        France
                    , and who was the founder of the religious society to which Father Sorin belonged. The
                    donation of 30,000 francs by Father Badin, the well-known missionary of the Northwest and the
                    original buyer of the Notre Dame property, 
                        enabled us to take advantage of a chance to buy a press for which we are paying: 1500 francs
                            in schooling and 3000 francs in cash, payable in 1846. Brother Joseph, with the help of two
                            little orphans has already printed half of the Brothers' Constitutions. The buy seemed 
                        
                           4 Edward Sorin, Chronicles of Notre-Dame-du-Lac, MS, p. 53,
                                    Provincial Archives.
                        
                           5 Edward Sorin to Superior of St-Mary-of-the-Woods, April 30,
                                    1845, Provincial Archives.
                     
                             to me so advantageous (it had cost originally 7000
                            francs) that I assumed you would consent to it: please approve it now.6
                  
                    Apparently the press was not delivered until near the end of the summer for the
                    Brothers' Rules and Constitutions were the first book printed and they
                    were only half done at the time Father Sorin wrote his Superior.
            The press was apparently a rather small one for we find it first located in the infirmary, then in
                    March, 1846, it was moved to the room "over Mr. Breckport's room." But
                    the following October "as soon as time will permit the infirmary shall be moved to the
                    printing office and the press shall be taken down to Father Badin's room."7 Rooms had an all-purpose character in those days!
            Brother Joseph, the first to join the community in America, was charged with learning the printing
                    trade under the direction of a "man of the art." On September 1, 1845, they were
                    ordered to print 150 copies of the Rules and Constitutions.
               8
                    These were finished by the end of the year and bear the date of January 1, 1846. Before the Rules and Constitutions were finished, the press had printed the Circular of the Reverend Superior of Notre Dame du Lac to All the Members of the Institution,
                        No. 1. The forty page circular is dated October 13, 1845, Father Sorin's feast
                    day, and bears the imprint: Notre-Dame-du-Lac. In it he says: "I am glad to inform you that
                    the Constitutions of the Brothers and those of the Sisters will soon be ready." We must
                    consider the circular letter, therefore, as the first publication of the first press.9
            
            While the Rules and Constitutions were being printed, the Gospels and
                        Epistles, and Mrs. Herbert's Conversations were being set up and
                    printed. In the first week of December, 1845, eight hundred copies of one "form"
                    of the Gospels were printed and three thousand copies of two
                    "forms" of 
                  
                     6 Edward Sorin to Basil A. Moreau, October, 1845, Generalate Archives,
                            file no. 5-54.
                  
                     7 Administrative Council Book, MS, p. 42, Archives of Notre Dame, no.
                            30, Provincial Archives.
                  
                     8 Brothers of 
                                St. Joseph
                            , … Rules and Constitutions of the Brothers of 
                                    St. Joseph
                                 in America (Notre-Dame-du-Lac, Indiana, January 1, 1846, pp. xvi, 124,
                            14 cm.). See Mary Alden Walker, The Beginnings of Printing in the State of
                                Indiana (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, 1934), no. 438.
                  
                     9 There is a copy in the University of Notre Dame Library.
               
                    
                    Mrs. Herbert's Conversations.
               10 The progress of
                    Brother Joseph's work in the printing office and elsewhere is briefly recorded in the Book
                    of the Council of Trades11 from September 30, 1845, to July 25, 1846. Under
                    January 18, 1846, for example, we find that "Brother Joseph made almost two formes [sic] of the Gospel," and "printed one form of Mrs.
                    Herbert." The Gospels were finished by February 7, 184612 While Mrs. Herbert's Conversations were being finished, an
                    abridged edition of Murray's grammar was started early in March. This same month a circular
                    letter of Father Moreau was also printed. Work was frequently slowed up by the lack of paper and
                    other difficulties: 
                        The printers made a form of the grammar but very little work was done there being no paper.
                            Brother Joseph worked in the garden, etc. Next week the printers shall continue on the same
                            footing. … 13 The bookbinders did not work, one of them had
                            the itch. … 14 Brother Joseph said that Father Cointet by his
                            corrections made them lose time and that in no printing office were so many proofs sheets
                            required as he pretended.15
                  
                    
                
            Murray's grammar was finished by May 23;16 the work on Mrs.
                        Herbert's Conversations is frequently mentioned but was not finished by the summer
                    of 1846, when the record of the Council of Trades ends.17 In early June a work
                    called Protestant Misconceptions18 was undertaken, and a pamphlet of the Rules
                    of the Archconfraternity19 started. Later in the month they began printing six
                    hundred copies of the First
                    
                  
                     10 No copy of this work has been found. It was probably the work
                            referred to in the British Museum Catalogue as Mrs. Herbert, Mrs. Herbert and
                                the Villagers; or, Familiar Conversations on the principal duties of Christianity
                            (2 vols., York, 1823).
                  
                     11 Book of the Council of Trades, MS, University of Notre Dame
                            Archives.
                  
                     12
                            Gospels and Epistles for every Sunday, and the principal festivals in the year.
                                Together with the morning and evening exercise and prayers for mass
                            (Notre-Dame-du-Lac, Indiana, 1846, pp. 33, 13½ cm.). See Walker, The
                                Beginnings of Printing in … Indiana, no. 446.
                  
                     13 Book of the Council of Trades, March 21, 1846.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., April 25, 1846.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., June 27, 1846.
                  
                     16 No copy of this edition by Lindley Murray has been found.
                  
                     17 No copy of this edition has been found.
                  
                     18 This was no doubt a well-known work of the time written by Father
                            Stephen Theodore Badin, the great missionary of the Northwest. No copy of the work printed
                            at Notre Dame has been found.
                  
                     19 This was a small pamphlet concerning a religious organization among
                            the students.
               
                    
                    Reader by the Brothers of the Christian Doctrine.20 We do not
                    know whether Protestant Misconceptions was finished or not since the book of the Council of Trades
                    does not state the fact, and no copies have been preserved. The First Reader of
                    the Brothers of the Christian Doctrine was sent to the printing press in 
                        Niles
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , to be completed in July, 1847.21 Besides printing books and
                    binding them, we know that the lists of awards for the "commencements" and
                    "various other jobs" were done. The first prospectus of the University, the
                    predecessor of the later catalogue or bulletin was printed at Notre Dame. It was a large single
                    sheet, printed on one side, with a picture of the college building at the top and a description of
                    the University, courses, and terms below. It is dated January 1, 1847.22 It was
                    probably one of the last things printed at the University in this early period for the press was
                    sold in January, 1847, "at almost the same price for which it was bought." The
                    expense of running it did not justify keeping it. 
                        No doubt with a man who knew how to judge and run it a considerable profit could have been
                            made. For want of such a man it had to be abandoned as well as all the hopes it had
                            engendered. It is to be regretted that the institution could not support all the expense
                            itself for it would have afforded abundant work for two or three little apprentices.23
                  
                     Thus the idea of having a printing press at Notre Dame was abandoned for the time being.
            The second press was started in 1865 primarily to print a religious magazine called the Ave Maria.
               24 Once organized the press soon undertook to publish the
                    student weekly paper, the Notre Dame Scholastic.
               25 In the
                    early decades this weekly, which had now become a news weekly, was more of a literary weekly
                    publishing essays and articles by both students and faculty, and enjoyed a wide circulation among
                    the parents and friends of Notre Dame as well as among the students. This second press soon began to
                    publish books of a religious, literary, and scientific character. But the 
                  
                     20 It was set up partly at Notre Dame and sent to 
                                Niles
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , to be completed.
                  
                     21 No copy of this work has been found.
                  
                     22 A copy is preserved in the University of Notre Dame Archives.
                  
                     23 Sorin, Chronicles of Notre-Dame-du-Lac, MS, p. 53.
                  
                     24
                            Ave Maria (Notre Dame, Indiana, 1865-).
                  
                     25
                            Notre Dame Scholastic (Notre Dame, Indiana, 1865-).
               
                     first of these to bear the imprint: University Press was
                    published in 1883. This was the Antigone of Sophocles,26 the
                    complete Greek text of the play produced in the original by the students in that year. The same year
                    the press published two works by an outstanding priest and science professor, Father John A. Zahm,
                        The Catholic Church and Modern Science, and The Great Southwest,
                        Its Attractions, Resources and People. Since then many other books have been published.27
            
            
               
                  26
                        The Antigone of Sophocles (Notre Dame, Indiana, 1883).
               
                  27 A certain number of titles may be found in [Philip S. Moore], A Selected List of Publications of the Faculty, 1843-1943 (Bulletin of the
                            University of Notre Dame, XXXVIII, no. 1, Notre Dame, Indiana, 1943). This list
                        contains works on a basis of academic merit and includes works published at Notre Dame and
                        elsewhere. It should be noted that it omits a number of works published by the University of
                        Notre Dame but not considered of sufficient academic value to be included.
            
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY
            By HOWARD H. PECKHAM
            
            The Committee on Bibliography is taking pardonable pride in the recent announcement that its first
                    book, A Bibliography of James Whitcomb Riley, by the late Anthony J. Russo and
                    Dorothy R. Russo, was selected by the American Institute of Graphic Arts as one of the
                    "Fifty Best Books of 1944." Judgment is rendered on the basis of typography,
                    presswork, paper, and binding. The honor, of course, goes to the printer, The Lakeside Press, but
                    the decision of the Committee on Bibliography to use that press and to spend the money necessary to
                    obtain a superior piece of bookmaking is now richly rewarded. Both the book and its publisher, the
                    Historical Society, will receive national attention, as the Fifty Best Books are sent on an
                    exhibition tour to libraries around the country.
            The Historical Society has been interested in three measures before the state legislature. House Bill
                    No. 88, authorizing the Department of Conservation to assume control of and to restore the
                    Whitewater Canal System as a public memorial, was passed by the legislature and signed by the
                    governor. Two other bills were related to the commemoration of the assertion of 
                        United States
                     authority in 1796 over the northwestern posts and that part of the Old Northwest
                    previously held by Great Britain. That event is to be marked by 
                  Michigan, Ohio
               , and
                    Indiana in 1946, the 150th anniversary. 
                        Ohio
                     has made extensive plans, particularly for marking and beautifying the highways that
                    follow closely upon the routes of Generals Harmar, St. Clair, and Wayne in their campaigns against
                    the Indians and British from 1790 to 1795. House Bill No. 340 authorizes the creation of an Anthony
                    Wayne Trails Commission to determine the routes followed by those winners of the West, after which
                    those routes would become part of the state highway system to be appropriately marked and
                    maintained. This bill has passed the House and the Senate, and has been signed by the governor.
                    Senate Bill No. 219 which would have established an Anthony Wayne Memorial Commission to prepare
                    plans for the erection of a state and national shrine on the site of old 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as part of the anniversary  observance, passed the
                    Senate but died in a committee of the House.
            Ross F. Lockridge, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , deserves the commendation of the Historical Society. Since January he has persuaded
                    thirty-nine persons of the advantages of belonging to the society, collected their membership dues,
                    and delivered same to the secretary's office. We are happy to welcome the new members. And
                    Mr. Lockridge is still in action.
            Eli Lilly, president of the Indiana Historical Society, gave a luncheon in Mr. Peckham's
                    honor at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 8. About fifty society officers, faculty members of the universities, and
                    other persons interested in state historical work, including Governor Ralph F. Gates, were invited.
                    The Governor tendered an official welcome, and several other guests were asked to speak.
            In its Prehistory Research Series, the society has published "Angel Site, 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , Indiana" by Glenn A. Black, the society's archaeologist. This
                    76-page booklet constitutes paper Number 5 in Volume 2 of the Series and completes
                    that volume. The publication has been sent out free to every member of the society.
         
         
         
            Documents MRS. LYDIA B. BACON's JOURNAL, 1811-18121
            
            Edited by MARY M. CRAWFORD
            
            In the first part of her manuscript, published in the December issue of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, Mrs. Bacon told of her journey from Fort Independence on Castle Island
                    in 
                        Boston
                     Harbor to the Wabash Country and of her stay at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The author, who accompanied her husband, Lieutenant Josiah Bacon, a quartermaster of
                    the Fourth Regiment of the 
                        United States
                     Infantry, described in detail their boat trip down the 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , their stops along the way, and her experiences at 
                        Vincennes
                     while she waited for her husband to return from the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign led by Governor William Henry Harrison against hostile Indians along the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            The concluding portion of Mrs. Bacon's manuscript which is presented below tells of her
                    journey back to 
                        Massachusetts
                     and her experiences along the way which included being made a prisoner of war twice and
                    witnessing the siege of 
                        Detroit
                     and General Hull's surrender to the British. When Mrs. Bacon left 
                        Vincennes
                     on horseback to go with her husband's regiment to 
                        Detroit
                    , she carried in a bag on the pommel of her saddle a Bible, a copy of
                    Homer's Illiad, and a "huge Spunge cake."
            When within eighteen miles of 
                        Detroit
                    , British officers stopped the boat in which Mrs. Bacon was traveling, seized the
                    hospital supplies and officers' baggage, and declared the occupants prisoners of war. That
                    night, Mrs. Bacon slept on a British prison ship near Maiden where earlier in the day some hostile
                    Indians who had taken part in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     hovered around her and her companions when they went to the tavern. The next day, she
                    and all the others who had come with her, except the officer in charge of their boat and his wife
                    who preferred to remain with him, were 
                  
                     1 While in the West, Mrs. Bacon kept a journal and wrote letters to
                            her mother and sister Abby in 
                                Massachusetts
                            . Some twenty years later, she arranged these records of her trip in
                            chronological order and added a few paragraphs to cover the parts of her trip not mentioned
                            in her letters or journal. This manuscript is now owned by the 
                                New York
                             Historical Society from which permission was obtained to publish it. Permission
                            was also obtained from the Pilgrim Press, the present representative of the 
                                Massachusetts
                             Sabbath School Society, which published the Biography of Mrs.
                                Lydia B. Bacon (
                                Boston
                            , 1856).
               
                     permitted to go on to 
                        Detroit
                    , There, Mrs. Bacon waited for her husband at the home of General Hull. When serious
                    fighting began at 
                        Detroit
                    , she witnessed it first from the fort and, later, from a root house. Following General
                    Hull's surrender to General Brock, Mrs. Bacon and two other officers' wives
                    boarded the British ship, Queen Charlotte, with the other prisoners bound for Quebec by way of
                    Niagara and Montreal. After one night on the ship, the other women were moved to another vessel and
                    Mrs. Bacon continued on the journey as the sole woman occupant of the Queen Charlotte.
            After crossing Lake Erie, the ship stopped at 
                        Fort Erie
                     in 
                        Canada
                    . At that place General Hull, who was on the Queen Charlotte, was provided with a
                    carriage and escort for the thirty-six mile overland drive to 
                        Newark
                     on the Niagara River, and he invited Lieutenant Bacon and his wife
                    to ride with him. At 
                        Newark
                    , General Brock, who was at that place on his way to Montreal, at General
                    Hull's request paroled Lieutenant Bacon because he was accompanied by his wife. Anxious to
                    get back to the 
                        United States
                    , the couple hurried across the river to Fort Niagara where they obtained funds and
                    engaged a cart to take them toward their home in 
                        Massachusetts
                    . The last lap of their long, hazardous journey was made from 
                        Batavia
                    , 
                        New York
                    , by stagecoach.
            The most significant part of Mrs. Bacon's letters and journal which follow is her account of
                    General Hull's behavior at 
                        Detroit
                    . Although she witnessed his surrender to the British, the author gives no indication of
                    any feeling of criticism of General Hull's action, by herself or by any of his officers or
                    men.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        May 14. 1812.
                        Left 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , our Friends manifested much grief at parting with us, & altho
                                    thankful to leave the place, I was not so to leave those kind companions, with whom we had passed our time so agreably.
                                    Their affectionate attentions has made an indelible impression on my heart, that
                                    time or distance never can efface, may you beloved Mr & Mrs W. never need a
                                    Friend, but if you should, may you find those, who will be as ready, to administer
                                    to your necessities as you have been to mine.
                        6. o'clock P M.
                        I seated myself with the other Ladies on a trunk of a tree, & was much amused
                                    with seeing the Soldiers pitch the tents, a business, which is performed by them,
                                    with much alacrity & order, our tea table was the ground,
                        
                        15. P M.
                        Went 15 miles today the roads were bad, our progress, of course was slow, the weather
                                    is beautiful, fine moon light night. I like travelling on horse back, &
                                    slept finely on the ground last night, for the first time in my life, with a bear
                                    skin for our bedstead & a Buffaloe Robe for our Bed, Col M, begs us not to
                                    break our Bedstead down for there is danger of falling into the cellar, the
                                    mosquitoes are very troublesome.
                        16. P M. Went on before the Troops, Stoped in the woods, & had a fire made to
                                    keep the Musquitoes off, spread blankets on the ground & had a fine nap,
                                    & felt refreshed thereby, had a detachment of troops for A guard. Am now
                                    seated on a bed in a log house, fire place large enough for a room, the chimney is
                                    built of logs & mud, & I am sure those who sleep in the House when
                                    it rains must get wet to their skins, this is one of the best Houses between Vin-es
                                    [and] 
                                        Louisville
                                    .
                        May 17. A M. It rain'd hard all day, never sleept better than last
                                    night—We are now ready to start, I wish you could see us, it is really
                                    laughable to witness the comical scenes that are acted— I have a large
                                    bag on the Pomell of My saddle containing some necessary articles, a Bible, Homers
                                    Illiad, & A huge Spunge cake presented by one of our kind Friends the
                                    morning of our departure. I enjoy myself very much, & one great source of
                                    pleasure is, anticipating yours if I should ever be permitted to relate in person
                                    the many curious circumstances that occur.
                        18. A M.
                        The General is beating, I must put away my pen & turn out to have my House
                                    packed for marching. We have stoped for the night, it has rain'd all day, I
                                    got wet through, we stoped in the woods & had a large fire made, no scarcity
                                    of wood here, have brilliant fires, the Waiters gather heaps of dry sticks &
                                    place them against a large green tree, the branches of which served for a shelter
                                    while we dried ourselves, rather uncomfortable drying wet garments in this
                                    maner—After this used an umbralla & went on nicly, the fatigue of
                                    the day has given me a fine appetite, our supper is ready, & Josiah is
                                    beging me to eat good [to] night, we rode through some beautiful forests, ground
                                    enamelled with flowers.
                        19th bright Sun, all going on in good health & spirits, but my feelings are
                                    somewhat tried seeing the poor Soldiers wives trudging on foot, some of the way mud
                                    up to their knees, & a little Child in their arms, only 4 or 5 Waggons
                                    allowed to carry the baggage, the poor women of course have to suffer, I should
                                    think it would kill them, saw two Houses one of them deserted, afraid of the
                                    Indians. We understand a camp of them are near us, hunting, they
                                    subsist in this way. I suppose you will be anxious to know what we have to eat, how
                                    we carry conveniences to eat out of, & how we cook —we live very
                                    well as to the quality of our victuals & have enough, plenty of elegant Bacon (nothing better) in this part of the world they smoke the
                                    whole Hog, you would laugh to see our waiters roast chickens, they take a green
                                    stick & put the fowel on it & put the  stick in the ground before a good fire, & they
                                    roast to a charm, & when they roast a joint of meat, two sticks are put in
                                    the ground, opposite the fire cut like a fork at the top, & another put
                                    across resting on the two with the meat suspended from the center, meat cooked in
                                    this way is very good endeed, we have a pack horse who carries a pair of mess Boxes
                                    made with separate apartments to hold cups plates & cccc & our tea
                                    & sugar in canisters, & our table is the hind board of a waggon set
                                    on a portable cricket made like a cot bedstead, our candlestick is a bayonet
                                    reversed with the point in the ground, the part which goes on to the gun, serves
                                    admirably for a socket to put the candle in. tonight we have encamped near a House,
                                    the Land Lady is very Patriotic & very large, weighs 300, she gave all the
                                    Soldiers plenty of Milk.
                        20 & 21,
                        Rainy weather, one poor man was taken sudenly ill with the Choira Morbus &
                                    breathed his last in a waggon, he is buried in the woods, in a bark Coffen, the only
                                    one, the times would admit of.
                        23d Every step fetches us nearer home, yet it is a roundabout way to get there, I
                                    think could I see you once more I could sit & look at you for A month at
                                    least, dul wet weather, ground in a bad condition to lie on, when we have straw we
                                    put some between the ground & buffaloe robe, which serves for our bed,
                                    & when straw is scarce, we substitute the leaves of trees, & cover
                                    them with bark which makes an excellent carpet for our tent, & renders it
                                    very comfortable, with a fire at the door, to keep the Musquitoes from devouring us,
                                    we are in good health eat hearty & sleep Sound.
                        27th
                        Have Omitted several days, having nothing pleasing to relate, bad weather, our Men
                                    get sick, two buried one morning, I have never mentioned my Poney, & as she
                                    is a character of some consequence at least to me, shall just observe that she is
                                    very clever, has been on a campaign ere this, steps to the sound of a Drum, equal to
                                    any regular & minds the fireing of guns, no more than you would the singing
                                    of Birds, I sit on her while the Men discharge their guns.
                        We have arrived at 
                                        Louisville
                                        Kentucky
                                    , A very handsome flourishing Town situated on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , the Citiezens gave the Officers a splendid diner, you will recollect
                                    that the Kentuckians were associated with the 4th Regiment at the Battle of
                                    Tipacanoe, We have had a delightful ride these two days, the State of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     is like a perfect garden, but slavery is tolerated here, which is a
                                    great evil.
                        May 29. 1812. had green peas & Strawberries, great respect is paid to the
                                    Regiment as they pass through 
                                        Kentucky
                                    —it is realy amusing, to see what a muster, it makes in the
                                    different places that we pass, one old Gentlemen ask'd Capt Brown if these
                                    young Women came from yonder meaning Mrs F & myselfe, the Capt said one came
                                    from yonder, the other had been [in] the whole Campaign. Well said the old man, some
                                    how, the Garls will go with Soldiers. We have passed thro 
                                        Frankfort
                                    , another flourishing town in 
                                        Kentucky
                                     the inhabitants treated us with every possible attention here a  dinner was given to the Officers, &
                                    refreshment to the Soldiers, on leaving the Town a salute was fired accompanied with
                                    3 cheers.
                        June 7, 
                                        Newport
                                    . We have once more arrived at this place with feelings far different,
                                    from those we felt, when we left here last Summer, then we were going from home, now
                                    we trust we shall see you ere long.
                        June. 10, 7 oclock P M. 5 miles from Cincinnata
                        Cross'd the 
                                        Ohio
                                     at 2 oclock this afternoon, The American Banner, & Regimental
                                    colors, ornamented the Boats, which conveyed the Troops across the River, at
                                    Cin—ti, two Companies of Artillery waited on its bank to receive them
                                    fired a salute & escorted them through an Arch erected for the purpose (with
                                    this inscription To the Heroes of 
                                            Tippecanoe
                                        .) to the encamping ground where a handsome Colation was
                                    prepared by the hospitality of the good people of this delightful town, previous to
                                    this the Officers of the 4th had been invited to General Ganos (the Brother of
                                    Docter Gano of 
                                        Providence
                                    ) & treated with every attention they could desire.
                        The other Eve we encamped on dry Ridge, in 
                                        Franklin County
                                    , near a Tavern, where a puppet show had drawn together all the Lads and
                                    Lasses for twenty Miles round, after they had examined the show sufficiently,
                                    & the day not spent, the remainder of it was passed in dancing, some of us
                                    went to the Tavern, not to see the puppet Show, but to see the
                                    dancing, & were much amused, it was intensly warm & they danced with
                                    all there strength, dressed in their best, of course, peticoats of the
                                        present fashionable length, leather shoes with sharp toes, the Lads took of
                                    their Coats & Jackets, & thus disencumbered of a part of their
                                    clothing performed feats of activity, while the perspiration flowed copiously down
                                    their blooming faces.
                        We have at last reached 
                                        Urbana
                                     where we found General Hull with 1500 Militia waiting for the Regiment,
                                    which was received with great respect by them some distance from the Town giving the
                                    4th the Right & escorting them into 
                                        Urbana
                                     through an Arch ornamented with Oak branches &
                                        Laurel, from the forest, in the center the American Eagle spread her broad
                                    pinions, on one side was inscribed 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     on the other Glory—We take up the line of March tomorrow for 
                                        Detroit
                                    , A party has gone on to cut roads, General Hull & Governer
                                    Meigs called on the Ladies, of the Regiment, immediately on our arrival, they are
                                    both very courtly, in their maners, particularly General Hull.
                        Camp Necessity
                        After travelling 3 or 4 days raining incessantly accompanied oft with most tremendous
                                    Thunder & lighting, through dreadful roads, intire swamp, some of the way,
                                    repeatedly wet through, the clouds have disappeared, & the bright Luminary
                                    of day has at last condescended to shine upon us, O how: cheering are its rays after
                                    so long an absence, & in such a situation, our tent was on the Battle ground
                                    at 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    , & many a shot tells its storry, these Holes admit the air
                                    & rain too, & at night we have to sleep with an open umbralla over
                                    us, to keep the rain from disturbing our repose, we shall stop here a day to prepare
                                    cartridges, the troops are expecting an attack from the Indians ere we reach 
                                        Detroit
                                    , God only knows our fate, but my 
                                    fervent Prayer is that such a calamity may be averted from us, it would be dreadful,
                                    such a number of Women & Children along. We understand a large number of
                                    Indians are at 
                                        Fort Maiden
                                    , the English have been holding a counsel with them, & no doubt
                                    every thing will be done, on their part, to instigate them to hostilities, breast
                                    works are made every night round the encampment by felling trees & heaping
                                    them on each other, it seems as if the very ground trembled beneath us as the mighty
                                    Oak falls. Officers & men sleep with their cloths on & their
                                    implements of War by their side, let me ask Dear Sisters how should you feel in such
                                    a situation, no doubt while you read you shudder at the Idea of a female being so
                                    exposed, it is a fact I believe that people in perrilous situations do not realize
                                    their danger for I feel somewhat composed & those around me appear so too,
                                    endeed they wish for a fight, but I am too much of a 
                                        Quaker
                                    , to think it nescessary, except on the defensive, I think I should die
                                    with fright, but I hope my courage will not be put to the test.
                        June 18th 1812. 63, miles, north of 
                                        Dayton
                                    , & 5, beyond, the Indian Boundary, Amid the noise &
                                    bustle of a camp the almost continual sound of Drums & firing of guns, my
                                    heart like the needle true to the magnet flies to you far quicker than the swiftest
                                    winged bird, & with delight contemplates the virtues of her who gave me
                                    birth, with your image are associated numerous others, dear to me by the ties of
                                    consanguinity & friendship, I think of you all with the livliest pleasure,
                                    & cherish the fond hope, of seeing you all once more, in the full enjoyment,
                                    of all the common blessings of life.
                        We are encamped on a spot of ground where once stood an Indian Village, very little
                                    remains to show, that human beings ever inhabited this place, the ground is covered
                                    with strawberry vines full of fruit, wild roses and various other flowers very
                                    beautiful, it looks like a perfect garden without the aid of art, in one corner of
                                    my tent is a very sweet wild rose, looking almost concious of the pleasure it
                                    bestows upon the Pilgrims, who have taken up their abode here, for the night, could
                                    you travel with us, through our American Wilderness, astonishment would seize your
                                    mind, in viewing the wonderful works, of our Almighty Father, & praises
                                    would voluntarily flow from your heart to him, who has been so bountiful to his
                                    sinful children.
                        The Malitia are very different from regulars, most of them have no Idea of order
                                    & dicipline, they think they can do as they please, one man for mutinous
                                    conduct, has been tried & sentenced to have half his head shaved, Torry
                                    written on his back, & drumed out of camp, with the Rogues March. I thought
                                    the poor fellow would have fainted, when he heard the sentence, he fell on his
                                    knees, & beg'd for pardon, if this was impossible, he beged, they
                                    would shoot him, (it would have melted your heart could you have seen him) he said
                                    he had a wife & Child, & had voluntered to serve his country,
                                    & not understanding Military law, had been led to commit this fault, /I
                                    looked at the General & my heart wispered be ye merciful as ye expect mercy
                                    to be shown you from above, he was led through all the Regiments with his hands tied
                                    behind, & the sentence was read, the Barber stood ready to shave his head,
                                    when the General pardoned him, It made the Soldier happy, and contributed not a
                                    little to the  pleasure of many, when I saw Him
                                    on his knees imploring pardon, my mind reverted to his wife & my imagination
                                    portrayed her distress (had the sentence been executed) in lively colors, it was
                                    almost too much, I do not like to witness such scenes, but I trust should they be
                                    oft repeated, that they will not harden my heart, We have been Six weeks on our
                                    journey four of which has been damp with a great deal of rain, I find it difficult
                                    to guide my Horse some times, the new roads cut by the Soldiers are rather narrow,
                                    & the boughs of the small trees & large bushes come in contact with
                                    our faces, & when it rains, I have to hold the reins, & Umbralla,
                                    with one hand, & with the other endeavor, to keep the bushes from scratching
                                    my eyes out, & tearing my bonnet of my head, not long since I was riding
                                    along musing, & the first thing I knew, I felt a violent jerk, which almost
                                    threw me of my Horse, but the kind creature stoped instantly or I know not, but like
                                    the rebellous Son of David I should have been left hanging to the tree by the hair
                                    of my head,—
                        Fort Finly, Blanchards Creek.
                        Block Houses are erected every 20 Miles to keep open the road for provission, to pass
                                    from 
                                        Ohio
                                     to 
                                        Detroit
                                     as we have no Vessels (should their be a war with great Britain) to
                                    keep open our communication by the Lake, it is very tedious travelling through roads
                                    that are cut as you procede, sometimes the Horse is in danger of Mireing, than of
                                    Breaking his legs going over log bridges, & in fording the rivers, the
                                    current is so strong, oft times, it is almost impossible to gain the opposite shore,
                                    & many a one has a fine bath ere they reach terea firma,
                                    but as yet I have been exempt from this disaster which would take all my Phillosophy
                                    to bear, I assure you it takes all my strength, & prowes, to maintain my
                                    equilibrium, sometimes the rivers are so deep, I am obliged to put my feet on the
                                    Horses neck to keep out of water & she has pretty long legs too—
                        This moment a man has brought us a beautiful fish caught in the creek, which we shall
                                    have for our Supper, with a short cake made by our cook, & if we chose we
                                    can have a dish of garlics, for we are encamped on ground that is
                                    ful of them, my tent smells like a French cook shop, its not quit as agreable as
                                    when we encamped on ground covered with strawberries &
                                    roses, An express has just reached us from 
                                        Washington
                                    , hastening the Troops to 
                                        Detroit
                                    —War is to be declared, with far different feeling shall we
                                    celebrate this 4 of July, from any ever experienced by us, You inhabitants, of 
                                        Boston
                                     will not suffer like those on the Frontiers, the latter are exposed to
                                    the merciless Tomahawk—
                        This Eve we have encamped on a delightful spot of ground on the bank of Miama river,
                                    which empties in to Lake Eri, about a mile from where General Wayne defeated the
                                    Indians, you have particulars of the Battle in the life of 
                                        Washington
                                    , in the last Vol—
                        We have had dreadful roads today several horses gave out, two droped dead, one wagon
                                    left in the mud,—
                        Today we have passed through some handsome Pararies coverd with wild fruit &
                                    flowers, the weather is very pleasant—
                        
                        30th June
                        We pass from the Indian Boundary to the 
                                        Michigan
                                     Territory, 70 miles more & we reach 
                                        Detroit
                                    , which seems a short distance. I could ride it in two days dare I leave
                                    the Army, good health & spirits pervade the Troops.
                        July 1st
                        Took up the line of March to day & passed thro a small Village called Miama,
                                    it was situated in a fine Pararia 3 or 4 miles in length, the Army appeared very
                                    well, the Ladies rode on to the edge of the Woods, which terminated the
                                    Paraia,—had a fine view of the whole, This Eve have encamped at the foot
                                    of the rapids, in crossing the river, the water got into the mess Boxes, &
                                    wet our Sugar, a few evenings since as I was setting in the door of our Tent
                                    enjoying the beautiful twilight & thinking of Friends far away—I
                                    heard the report of a gun, & felt the wind of something, pass close to my
                                    ear, presently an Officer came along with a ramrod in his hand
                                    which he said had just fallen on their tea table as they sat around it, this is what
                                    I felt as it passed, only think what an escape, one inch closer, & it would
                                    have gone directly through my head, & death would have been my portion, not
                                    in the field of Battle but thro the carelessness of a Malitia
                                    Soldier, who in discharging his gun forgot the Ramrod was in it & did
                                    not elevate it, thus I am constantly preserved through dangers seen &
                                    unseen. Accompanied by my Husband visited an old fort that formerly belonged to the
                                    British, rode into the Fort Horse back, it must have been a very good one for the
                                    times. At this place it was thought best to send the Baggage & sick
                                    & feeble of the Army by water to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , in a small unarmed Vessel, which had been sent from D. …. t
                                    for this purpose, Mrs G, Mrs F, & myselfe being much fatigued concluded to
                                    take this water conveyance, as Mrs Gs, Husband who was an invalide was to have
                                    charge of the baggage & Property & would be our Protector, it was
                                    fine weather & a few hours pleasant sailing would land us safe at the place
                                    of our destination,1 We embarked, & enjoyed the sail
                                    very much, after riding Horseback nearly 600 miles & sleeping on the ground 50 nights. We were in high spirits anticipating the
                                    pleasure we should receive, in resting awhile, but when within 18 miles of D.
                                    …. t opposite Maiden on the 
                                        Canada
                                     side, which is a thrifty Village, with a fort & military
                                    depot—We saw a large Boat coming from thence towards us with all possible speed, & when near enough to be heard, ordered
                                    our Capt to lower his sails, he not knowing why he should do this, had a mind to run
                                    from them, but a second thought convin'ed him this would be endangering the
                                    Vessel & the lives of those on board, as we were so near their fort (the
                                    channel is near the 
                                        Canada
                                     side) that they could with ease blow us out of water, even while this
                                    was passing in the Capts mind, those in the Boat fired twice at us, & as the
                                    Shot whistled 
                              
                                 1 Lieutenant George Gooding was injured during the
                                            Battle of 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            . See Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of
                                                William Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical
                                                Collections, VII and IX, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1922), I, 631, 639-640, 709.
                           
                                     above our heads, it caused a sensation not
                                    easily described, for excepting the ramrod, I had never come in
                                    contact with shot & balls before. The sails was lowered & the
                                    English Capt with his Men jumped on board deligh'ed with their prieze, most
                                    of the Hospital stores were on board & all the Officers baggage. Leiut G
                                    enquired the cause of this conduct & was informed that War was declared,
                                    & we had taken two of their Vessels, we could hardly believe it, but it was
                                    too true, General Hull received the intelligence, after we started, & sent
                                    immediately to stope us, but we had got beyond their reach— Mrs G,
                                    & F, flew into the Cabin soon as they heard the shot whistle, but a love of novelty, spiced with curiosity, overcame
                                    my fears, & I continued on deck for a while, The Capts name was Rulet,
                                    a very gentlemanly young man, he took the Helm & in a short time we were
                                    anchored at Maiden Prisoners to His Majesty King George 3d, on honor, I little thought would ever be my lot, but one, I should have most
                                    cheerfully dispensed with, The Quarter Master, came on board, Leiut
                                    G—introduced us Ladies to him, observing we were Officers Wives, he
                                    assured us we should be treated as such, politely invited us to his Quarters till we
                                    procured a room at the Public House, Mrs G. & F. Leiut G, & myselfe,
                                    accompanied him, to his habitation, & was introduced to his wife, a very
                                    pleasant Lady, & their only Child, a Babe in her Arms, Cake &ccc was
                                    offered us, & for a time we almost forgot our real situation.
                        A number of Indians were at Maiden, some of whome were in the Battle of Tippecande,
                                    they soon learnt that some of the fourth had been taken prisoners, & when we
                                    went to the Tavern they hovered around us, with an expression of countenance truly
                                    terrific. We dined at the tavern, after dinner, several British Officers called upon
                                    us, & I requested them to let Mrs F & myselfe go to 
                                        Detroit
                                     the next day certainly said he, & added, we have not made war
                                    upon the Ladies, Leiut G could not be paroled, of course his wife chose to stay with
                                    him, this night we slept on board a prison ship,
                                    but as we were the first prisoners, it had not got dirty & was comparitively
                                    comfortable, I slept pretty well, considering the novelty of my situation, &
                                    awoke right early in the morning having a strong desire (it beind the 3d of July) to
                                    set my feet on Republican ground ere the fourth arrived. Agreable to his promise the
                                    Quarter Master procured us a pass from the Commanding Officer, & a Chaise
                                    & driver for us and a Cart to carry our
                                    baggage—he also permitted at my request, two small Boys, sons of Malitia
                                    Officers, & a Soldiers Wife, who had an infant with her to go to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , also, & now behold Mrs F & myselfe in a Chaise without
                                    a top with a man seated in front to drive, & the Cart with a Canadian to
                                    guide it, in our rear, Loaded with the Woman & her Child, the two Boys
                                    & our baggage, it was a beautiful day & we very happy in the
                                    prospect of seeing our Dear Husbands once more, the road very excellent, directly on
                                    the bank of the 
                                        River Detroit
                                    , this river is wide & deep enough for Vessels of any Dimensions to
                                    sail upon, the person who drove us lived halfway between Maiden & 
                                        Detroit
                                    , say 9 miles, we stoped here, to rest the Horse a few moments, which I
                                    spent in reconnoitering his garden and  found it
                                    a very good one, with some nice fruit in it, we resumed our seat in the Chaise
                                    & soon found ourselves at the Ferry opposite 
                                        Detroit
                                    , here a boat was furnished by the Gentleman, to whom I presented our
                                    pass, & who politely voluntered his services to see us across the river,
                                    which we accepted & in a short time we were seated in the Boat on our way to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , it was a long Canoe made out of the trunk of a tree, & had
                                    been lyeing exposed to the sun out of water, which had caused it to crack, the
                                    Gentleman took the Helm in one hand, & his cane in the other, with my white
                                    Pockethandkerchief tied on it, for a flag of Truce, the only way we dare approach,
                                    the enemys shores, in such troublous times, we could hardly keep our feet dry, the
                                    boat leaked so badly, in consequence of the cracks I mentioned, that we were
                                    actively employed all the way across, in bailing the water out, As we approached our
                                    American shore, we observed a number of men, on Horse back, riding quit down to the
                                    waters edge, & when we came near enough to hear them call to us, they
                                    ordered us not to advance any nearer, & we saw they had large Pistols
                                    pointing directly at us, this was in consequence of all communication being
                                    prohibited between 
                                        Detroit
                                     & the places opposite, but we had a flag of truce which is
                                    always respected & which they must have seen, & I never learnt the
                                    reason of their improper conduct, on the wharf a guard of regulars waited to receive
                                    us commanded by an Officer, who demanded, who we were, I replied we are Officers
                                    Wives of the 4th Regiment, upon which we were immediately suffered to land, and Ct,
                                    H waited on us to General Hs Quarters, the Gentleman who escorted us in the Boat, I
                                    had promised at his request, should return immediately without molestation, this I
                                    made known to the Officer commanding adding, I hoped it would be performed without
                                    delay, he assured me it should, At the Generals Quarters we were cordially received
                                    by his Daughter who was keeping his House, the rest of his family excepting his Son,
                                    were in 
                                        New England
                                    , & with this Lady I tarried while in 
                                        Detroit
                                    , & received from her all that attention, which a refined mind
                                    could bestow, her Husband had a commission in the Army, & she had two Dear
                                    little girls & the care and attention they required helpd to pass
                                    pleasantly, some of the other wise tedious hours incident to our situation, for from
                                    this time till our capture one continued din of War caused us anxious days &
                                    sleepless nights, no Sabbaths, no sanctuary,
                                        privileges blest, us with their return, but all days were alike merged in a
                                    continual preparation, for Brother to shed his Brothers blood, for here had been
                                    such a friendly intercourse keept up, & been cemented by marrying with each
                                    other, that it seemed like families taking up arms against their fellows, do not be
                                    uneasy on our account, I trust we shall be protected, our cause is good, &
                                    let us hope that the same kind 
                                        Providence
                                     who fought our Battles in the revolution will still succour &
                                    protect this highly favour'd people.
                        July 7th
                        The Army has just arrived, all in good health & spirits, this is a beautiful
                                    part of our Country, good gardens in the Village, & fine farms in the
                                    vicinity, had a delightful ride horseback on the bank of the river above 
                                        Detroit
                                    .
                        
                        August 5th
                        Some parties from our Troops, have had several skirmishes with the British &
                                    Indians, an english Officer dresed & painted like the Indians, lead the
                                    Savages on to Battle, is it not surprising that a white man of any refinement can do
                                    such a thing, after one of the Skirmishes they suffered some Indians to take a scalp
                                    which came of a Yankey Soldiers head, & carry it 12 miles for the purpose of
                                    shewing it to Leiut G. on board the Prison Ship, this was done in the most insulting
                                    maner, since this took place, they have been obliged to move the Prison Ship out in
                                    the stream some distance, to prevent the Indian fireing into her, which they did
                                    once, but injured no one. poor Mrs Gooding must be very unpleasantly situated no
                                    female companion to speak to, & in constant terror, the 12 of July General H
                                    crossed to Sandwich oppisite 
                                        Detroit
                                     with his troops, & took possession, the Inhabitants either
                                    quiting the place, or stoping under American jurisdiction. A detachment of Troops
                                    have gone to Browns-town & My Husband among them we have heard, that an
                                    ingagment had commenced between the English & Americans, the thought is
                                    almost too much to bear, that it is possible my beloved Josiah may be among the
                                    Slain. We have just heard that our troops are victorious, no Officers killed
                                    & only one wounded, Col Miller commanded, my Dear Josiah has returned in
                                    safty.
                        12 August
                        Our Troops have vacated Sandwich & returned to this place, since then the
                                    Enemy have been very buisy on the opposite shore building a battery we suppose, as
                                    the ends project beyond a large building, which covers them while they work,
                                    & at night we can hear them throw their cannon balls from a boat on to the
                                    land—
                        one of our Physicians Docter F is very sick we fear he will die, he is a very
                                    particular Friend of Josiah & myself, a most excellent young man unblemished
                                    morals & posessing a refined mind, higly cultivated.
                        Today received a message from the Docter requesting I would favour him with an
                                    interview, obeying the summons, with all possible dispatch, I hastened to his room,
                                    & found him very near his end, in replying to my enquiry how he was, he
                                    observed, Mrs B, I have sent for you to converse about dying, my male Friends are
                                    not willing to converse on this subject, but thinking you are a rational woman, I
                                    feel as if you would not object to hear me, I assured him, it would give me pleasure
                                    to alleviate his sufferings all in my power, he then informed me what his desease
                                    was, said it was hereditary that his Mother & several of his family had died
                                    with the same, Spoke with the greatest calmness of his immediate dissolution which
                                    he thought must take place ere tomorrows sun sunk in the West, as there was an
                                    abscess forming which on breaking would in all probability terminate his existance,
                                    he appeared to feel perfectly confident of his acceptance with God on the score of
                                        his own merits, he acknowledged no Savior, he needed none his own righteousness was
                                    all sufficient, I knew, I felt, he was altogether wrong, that he was building on the
                                        Sand, but I was so struck with finding him so near his end,
                                    & with the calmness & resignation he discovered, & feeling
                                    my incompetency  to direct him aright, that it
                                    took from me almost the power of utterance, & I left him without Saying one
                                        word to undeceive him. O how culpable was
                                        I thus to see the fellow creature just on the verge of
                                    eternity & not say one word to endeavour, to convince him, of the sandy
                                    foundation, on which he was building, My feelings on leaving him were indiscribable,
                                    for I could not indulge the hope that he would survive, after hearing his
                                    explanation & the certainty he felt that he must die, & he was
                                    correct, for the next day as the Sun gain'd its Meridian he yielded his
                                    spirit to him who gave it. he observed to me while conversing, that he felt very
                                    grateful to God, that he had no Mother, to mourn his loss,—he was buried
                                    the next day with Military honors, he was much esteemed & respected.
                        I was much mortified while a prisoner, to hear a British Officer say, the 
                                        New England
                                     states will not take up arms against his Majesty, & then add,
                                    you have federal governers, nothing would delight them so much as a disunion,
                                    & they are strengthened in the Idea by reading so many improper pieces in
                                    the paper, but I know the vile productions which I see in the papers are not the
                                    sentiments of a majority of the people in the place which ranked among the first to
                                    achieve our independence. O may the bright flame of patriotism, which glowed in the
                                    bosom of Our 
                                        Washington
                                    , & his compatriots, animate the breasts of their decendents,
                                    that while one drop of blood, flows in the veins of Americans, they may remember the
                                    dying injunction of the Father of his Country, to unitedly maintain that
                                    Independence which (under Heaven) their Fathers so gloriously obtained—
                        15 August
                        A summons has been sent to day, from General B. [Isaac Brock] Commander of the
                                    English forces in 
                                        Canada
                                    , to General H. [Hull], to surrender 
                                        Detroit
                                     with the Army to him, this the general has not seen fit to comply with,
                                    & every preperation is making for a Bombardment, the British Soldiers are
                                    very busy puling down the, large House which conceals their Battery, if I did not
                                    feel halfe frightened out of my wits, I could laugh, to see what quick work, they
                                    make of it, never did a building come down quicker, all the Women & Children
                                    are to go into the Fort as the only secure place against the Indians, & the
                                    Bombs, & 24 pound shot of the English, the Officers who came with the
                                    summons have returned & as soon as they arrive on the Opposite shore the
                                    fireing will commence.
                        19 August
                        Amidst the horrors of War I have not been able to compose myself sufficiently to
                                    write a line, but as the carnage has ceased with us for the present, & I
                                    with my Dear Husband & many others, are prisoners of war, seated very
                                    quietly in his Majestys Ship the Queen Charlotte, I will now
                                    endeavour to give an account of some of the very interesting events which have
                                    transpired within these five days past. While the bearers of the summons were
                                    returning with a negative to their demand, I took Mrs Hs oldest girl, a Child about
                                    three years old & went into the Fort which was some distance from our House,
                                    & I did not tarry by the way I assure you, but when I arrived I found many
                                    had got there before me. it was not long,  before
                                    the fireing of cannon commenced on both sids, & continued without effecting
                                    anything, till the enemy about midnight discontinued, & we ceased allso,
                                    some of us females & Children had not been able to eat anything all day,
                                    & feeling very faint concluded to make some tea, this meal we might call an
                                    early breakfast as it was one in the Morning when we partooke of it, after this we
                                    endeavoured to get some sleep. Captin Sn. had been married only 'two days previous
                                    to this dismal event, & his Bride a sweet little Girl of 14
                                        years of age, was with us. She with her nephew a Child of 5 or 6 years old,
                                        cried themselves to sleep, as children often
                                    do. In vain I tried to court the drowsey God, Sleep was banished from my eyes,
                                    & many others found it as difficult as myself to get a moments
                                    rest—it was a night long to be remembered & a scene never to be
                                    forgotten,
                        16 August Soon as auroras beautiful rays adorned the east, the Cannon began to roar
                                    apparently with tenfold fury, to do execution, the enemys shot began to enter the
                                    Fort, & as some Ladies were making cylinders, (bags to hold the powder)
                                    & scraping lint in case it should be wanted, a 24 pound shot entered the
                                    next door to the one they were in, & cut two Officers who were standing in
                                    the entry directly in two their bowels gushing out, the same ball passed through the
                                    Wall into a room where a number of people were & took the legs of one man
                                    off & the flesh of the thigh of another the person who had his legs shot off
                                    died in a short time, thus one of these angry Messengers destroyed
                                    the lives of three & wounded a fourth in a moment of time, one of the
                                    Gentlemen who was killed in the entry, was a Capt in the regular Army, & had
                                    been taken prisoner at 
                                        Chicago
                                    , and was in the Fort for safty, as he was not allowed, to take up Arms
                                    till he was exchanged, soon after this, another ball of equal size, entered the
                                    Hospital room, & a poor fellow who lay sick on his bed, had his head
                                    severed, from his body instantly, & his attendant was likewise killed, the
                                    shot striking him in his breast, the enemy had got the range of the Fort so
                                    completely, that it was considered dangerous for the Woman & Children to
                                    stay any longer in the Quarters, & we all hurried to a root House (on the
                                    opposite side of the Fort) which was bomb proofe. never shall I forget my sensation
                                    as I crossed the Parade ground to gain the place of safty, you must recollect, my
                                    feelings had been under constant excitement for many weeks, & now were
                                    wrought up to a high pitch, weep I could not,
                                        complain I would not, & I felt as if my nerves would burst, my hair
                                    felt as if it was erect upon my head, which was not covered, & my eyes
                                    raised upward to catch a glimpse of the bombs shells & balls that were
                                    flying in all directions, in the midst of all this, I saw the little Boy whose
                                    Father was tomahawked by Indians at 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    , runing about on the parapets exposed to the fire of the enemey as
                                    fearlessly as if in play—on gaining the root House, I found it nearly
                                    full of Woman & Children, one Lady so sick obliged to be carried there in a
                                    bed. What a scene was here presented, such lamentation, & weeping, I never
                                    heard before, & I sincerely hope I never shall again, among all this number
                                    but three appeared composed, & they felt more than can be described, the
                                    Wife of one of the Officers who had been shot as above mentioned, was in an agony of
                                    grief as you may  well suppose, & amidst
                                    her lamentation, asking what she had done to deserve this sore
                                    trouble. O thought, I, what have any of us done to diserve any thing else, one Child too young to realize danger, was
                                    screaming most violently for its attendent to walk with her on the Parapet, on
                                    looking out of the door of the root House, opposite, I saw a Ball take a chiminy
                                    down & was told the same ball killed some one on the Parapet, the other side
                                    of the House, who was stationed there on duty—
                        About this time, the Enemy landed on our side, under cover of their armed Vessels, of
                                    which they had a sufficiency to demolish 
                                        Detroit
                                     if they chose, & we had not a boat in order to carry a single
                                    gun. & General Brock's effective force was double, the number of
                                    ours— The Indians were let lose upon the inhabitants in all directions,
                                    & but a very small supply of Provision & Ammunition, under such
                                    circumstances the General after counciling Col Miller saw fit to2 surrender under the best terms he could, for in addition to what I have
                                    already stated a part of the Generals more efficient force, were some distance from 
                                        Detroit
                                     where they had been sent on duty previous to the summons. A white flag
                                    was accordingly displayed upon the Parapet the common signal for a cessation of
                                    hostilities, & the Cannon ceased to roar, all was still. Immediatly the
                                    Enemy sent to ascertain, for what purpose the white flag was exhibited, &
                                    learnt the determination of the General to surrender.
                        Our Soldiers were then marched on to the Parade ground in the Frot, w[h]ere they
                                    stacked their arms, which were then deliver'd to the Enemy, the American
                                    colors were taken from the Stafe on the Fort & immediatly replaced by the
                                    English colors, & a royal salute fired, from the very
                                    cannon, taken from them in the revolutionary war — while their music
                                    played God save the King, their national tune, in the most livily
                                    maner. A thousand emotions struggled in my breast, too numerous for
                                        utterance, & too exquisitly painful to be described, —
                                    the poor fellows that were shot in this contest were buried in one common grave.
                                    After the Surrender those who had fled to the Fort for safty, returned to their
                                    respective abodes, the little Girl of whom I had charge in the begining, was with me
                                    all the time, & when she saw the fine uniform of the British Soldier
                                    expressed her delight in Broken accents, for she could not speak plain, calling them
                                        pretty—poor Child she little thought or realized,
                                    the sorrow, the transactions of that day might bring upon her
                                    family, & did actually, cloud their happiness for a long
                                    time afterwards.
                        17 August
                        The prisoners were put on board his Majestys Vessels to be sent to Niagria &
                                    from thence to Montreal on their way to Quebec thus a second time in the short
                                    space, of less then six weeks I was 
                              
                                 2 On August 16, 1812, the town of 
                                                Detroit
                                             was surrendered to General Brock by General Hull. Esarey, Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, II, 92. At
                                            this point of the manuscript, Mrs. Bacon had written, "call a
                                            council, of Officers, and the result was to," but she scratched
                                            over it and inserted, "after counciling Col
                                        Miller."
                           
                                     a prisoner & feared I should not be so
                                    easily released this time as I was with my Husband & he being of more
                                    consequence to the enemy, than a woman, might not get paroled, & I felt
                                    determin'd not to leave him unless obliged to. we were put on board the
                                    Queen Charlotte a fine Armed Ship of 300 tons, in the same Vessel were a number of
                                    others among whom were General H, & his son, Capt H, a number of 4th
                                    Regiment Officers, with their Soldiers, & several public Civil Officers,
                                    & only three Ladies Mrs F, Mrs S. & myself, Mrs F &
                                    S—only staid' on board our Vessel one night, the next day they
                                    were put in to another Vessel, ours being very crowded, & I was left
                                    intirely without a female to communicate a thought to, but I think notwithstanding
                                    our being prisoners, you would have laughed heartily, could you have seen us, when
                                    we laid ourselves down for the night. I am sure I never felt in a
                                    merrier mood, & the same feeling seemed to pervade all, except the General
                                    who was not in our Cabin, there was but one stateroom in the Cabin allotted for the
                                    Prisoners, & this had been taken possession of by Mrs F ere Mrs S and I
                                    arrived, Capt S, was much offended that a stateroom had not been provided for his
                                    beautiful Bride, who had been so hardly a week. To be sure we was
                                    led to expect more from British Officers whose politeness to the Ladies is
                                    proverbial, than their monopolizing all the Staterooms for their own use, but as we
                                    had been accustomed for many months to make the best of every thing, we thought it
                                    the best Policy to do so on the present occasion, & therefore proceded to
                                    arrange our beds as well as we could, consulting comfort & decency, as much
                                    as the times would possibly admit. Capt S, put his bed next the State room where
                                    Capt F & his wife were, we put ours next his, he took his place next the
                                    door his wife next him, I laid down by her & my husband the other side of
                                    me. thus he & Capt S formed a guard for their wives, while the rest, all
                                    gentlemen, covered the rest of the floor completely, altho nothing but variety had
                                    been our portion for many a month, I must confess the unpresedented novelety of our
                                    present situation intirely excluded sleep from our eyes, tho every thing in the Ship
                                    was quiet but ourselves, one Officer passing through our Cabin observed we were a
                                    merry set of prisoners, Mrs S requested him to give her some water to drink, which
                                    he politely complied with We were wind bound several days, which was very tedious
                                    being crowded & our fare not very good, one day at table a gentleman
                                    observed to me if I could eat such bread as this, (breaking as he spoke, a biscuit
                                    which he held in his hand), I was a better Soldier than he, for as he broke the
                                    bread, the hairs & Sticks shewed to great advantage, I was
                                    the best Soldier if eating the bread without thinking of the dirt made one, for untile my attention was
                                    called to it I had not thought of it, & was eating it with a very good
                                    relish, one day I made a huge apple pudding, which the Gentlemen
                                    enjoyed very much endeed, sewing, reading, & conversation, made the time
                                    pass talerably pleasant. When we went on board the Charlotte I had A bundle in my
                                    hand containing some work, with all my sewing apparratus a very handsome pearl
                                    breast Pin (the Gift of Brother John Bacon) & some money, this bundle as I
                                    was assending the side of the Vessel from a boat which conveyed us to it I put into
                                    the  hand of one of the men who rowed the boat,
                                    & never saw the man or bundle again, this was a serious evil I thought at
                                    the time as I should be deprived the pleasure of sewing, my favorite employment, but
                                    a young Officer (Brittish) learning my misfortune went ashore & purchased,
                                    needles, pins, scisors, & thread & presented them to
                                    me—we were 14 days before we reached Buffaloe, 11 of which we lay waiting
                                    for a fair wind, & only 3 days going across Lake Eri, it was a pleasant
                                    sail, when we landed at Eri on the Cannada side, the Commanding Officer gave General
                                    Hull the liberty to fill the Carraige which was provided for him & his Aid
                                    & the only one which could be procured at the place. My Husband had been
                                    long acquainted with the General, which I suppose was the reason of his offering us
                                    the vacant seats in preferance to others, & as my Husbands duties ceased
                                    when the Soldiers were prisoners, he could avail himselfe of this comfortable
                                    conveyance. Officers of the line were obliged to be with their
                                    Men—& I after wards understood their wives had a very
                                    uncomfortable time in geting to 
                                        Newark
                                     36 miles from Eri, without protecters or proper carraiges to ride in,
                                    & now behold us seated with the General & his Aid guarded by
                                    Officers of suitable rank on horse back, 2 each side the Carraige, & 2
                                    behind & the same number preceeding us, going just as fast as they could
                                    make the Horses go,3 which to be sure was not the best, but mean
                                    as they were I am inclined to think it was at the risk of our necks, we were hurried
                                    along with such velocity, the reason for their so doing I presume was, they feared
                                    our getin a view of their fortifications, which were erected at short distances from
                                    Eri to New Ark—In descending Queenstown Heights, I expected we should be
                                    precipitated into the abyss below, my head whirl'd as I endeavoured to
                                    catch a view as we flew along, We dined at a Tavern near the Falls of Niagra, These
                                    Falls, of which I had heard so much, I had a great desire to see, & oft
                                    times had said when speaking of returning home, we must see Niagra Falls before we
                                    return, & now I could be gratifyed, but how strangly brought about, I
                                    observed to the Officer in command that altho a prisoner I hoped to be permitted to
                                    view the Falls, he immediatly answered in the affirmative, immediatly after dinner
                                    General, & Capt H, Husband, & myself, escorted by the Guard, proceeded to the Falls, which answered our expectations, as far as
                                    we had time to examine them, but this was not as long as we could have wished as we
                                    must reach our destined Haven that afternoon, but since then, under more propitious circumstances, we have been astonished and delighted
                                    with the stupendous & sublime work of nature.
                        We found in conversing with these Gentleman that they were well acquainted, with Mrs
                                    Gooding, & her Husband, they admired her, they informed us they had a short
                                    time previous been sent to Montreal, & that on their way there had stoped at 
                                        New Ark
                                     some weeks, he was closely confined in consequence of
                                    some terms he made use of in speaking of his Majesty which they thought improper, he
                                    had the liberty of the Village before this, I afterwards learnt from herself, 
                              
                                 3 Between the lines and nearly erased are the words,
                                            "poor old worn out creatures gallop."
                           
                                     that she was treated by the British Officers
                                    & their wives with great respect being often invited to visit them,
                                    & found them very pleasant & refined.4
                        
                        We resumed our seats in the Carraige & about 5. P M arrived at 
                                        NewArk
                                    , a very pleasant Village, directly opposite Fort Niagra, here we found
                                    good Quarters, the same Leiut G, & Wife occupied, we found their names
                                    written on the Wall, we were not detain'd at 
                                        Newark
                                     long, for very providentially for us, General Brock was at this place
                                    on his way to Montreal, & at General H-s request paroled My Husband, because
                                    his wife was with him, & ere the other Officers arrived who desired the same
                                    privilege, the General had left, & they had to proceed to Montreal, where
                                    All who had wives were immediatly liberated, this provoked some of the Batchalors
                                    very much, & made them almost promise, they would get married directly, if
                                    they could find anyone to have them, all those who were carried to Montreal were
                                    marched through the Streets & round Nelsons Monument to the tune of Yankey
                                    Doodle, before they were allowed to put up, this display of prisoners was something
                                    like the conquests of old.
                        My Dear Josiah having obtained his parole, was anxious to depart, & the next
                                    day we left his Majestys dominions with heatt felt joy altho we had but 25 cts to travel 500 miles with. The Troops had not
                                    received any pay for a long time, the communication being so hazardous at 
                                        Detroit
                                    , prevented the Money being sent, & all the money we had was in
                                    the Bundle, I lost, when climbing into the Queen Charlotte, but this did not trouble
                                    us, so delighted were we with the thought of being once more in our own
                                    Country—The river between Niagra & NewArk is quite narrow,
                                    & in a few moments we were safely landed in our beloved 
                                            United States
                                        
                           , & our respiration became more free, at least we
                                    thought so, We went immediatly to the Fort attended by our Brother Officers, who had
                                    seen the Boat approching & came to the wharf to receive us, The Stone
                                    building in this Fort was erected by the French more than a Century ago, it is
                                    situated directly on the Bank of Lake Ontario, the distance
                                    between the building & the Water hardly admitting a foot path—in
                                    its rear—its high Windows, lofty walls, strong doors, & wide
                                    stair case, all denoted the object for which it was designed, we visited different
                                    parts of it, & well do I recollect the Magezine, which many years after,
                                    (while our Country reposed in peace, & we would feign have flattered
                                    ourselves the angry passions of men had Subsided also) became the prison of the
                                    Unfortunate Morgan, & I also remember how lovely the beautiful Lake appeared
                                    to me, which was undoubtdly his grave,5—After dinner
                                    we proceeded by invitation to the House of Docter West, a phycisian in the Army, who
                                    had purchased a farm on the Lake & whose family, consisting of a Wife, a
                                    Sister, & several Children, resided there, we passed through some woods near
                                    the Fort, & the recollection that this same woods, had been consecrated, by
                                    the prayers of that beloved Saint, Mrs Isabelle Graham, made 
                              
                                 4 This comment may have been added when Mrs. Bacon
                                            copied her diary and letters.
                              
                                 5 This section was probably added when the diary and
                                            letters were copied.
                           
                                     them pecularily interesting I had been for so
                                    long a time uncos-tomed to walk, that in going the distance of a mile &
                                    half, my feet became blistered, & with pleasure I haild the appearance of
                                    the habitation through the trees which was to be our resting place for the night, we
                                    were received with hospitality by the Docters family, who expressed much interest
                                    for us, & endeavoured in every possible way to make us comfortable,
                                    & happy, once more a witness to the happiness of the domestic circle, we for
                                    a season almost forget the perils we had passed through, & felt there was
                                    something yet to enjoy, the Sister when I retired for the night followed me into the
                                    room, assigned us, & insisted on bathing my blistered feet, (an office which
                                    had never been performed for me when I had strength to do it myselfe) & all
                                    the objections I could offer, did not deter her, from her benevolent purpose, surely
                                    if any one ought to remember the stranger it is us, so many acts of kindness have
                                    been shewn us by them, that the knowledge of anyones being a Stranger seems to be a
                                    claim upon us, refreshed & invigorated by our short stay with this kind
                                    family, & anxious once more to behold our Dear Parents & relatives,
                                    Josiah obtain'd funds of the Pay Master at Niagra, & the next day
                                    we proceeded on our journey towards the place of our nativity, the Stage at this
                                    time did not run farther than Buffaloe, 36 miles from where we then were, &
                                    we hired a Cart the best vehicle the times would afford in this Cart, we put our
                                    trunks, & on a trunk we put our Mattrass & thus made a tolerable
                                    comfortable seat, but the roads were dreadful, logs most of the way slightly covered
                                    with earth, we bore the jolting till our limbs seemed almost dislocated &
                                    then, tried how walking would affect us, this was some reliefe, but fearing to
                                    blister my feet which were hardly well, we had recourse to our miserable conveyance
                                    again, & about 9 at night arrived at a wretched tavern the only one we could
                                    reach, & with in a few rods of the Falls, the distance we had
                                    travel'd was only 18 miles The badness of the roads, & the frequent
                                    interruptions occasioned by the Officers Stationed all along the road, calling on
                                    Josiah to give them an account of the Surrender, of which they had as yet heard only
                                    imperfectly related, detained us very much, & wearied exceedingly with our
                                    days travel we gladly avail'd ourselves of a shelter for the night however
                                    mean, on entering the House I was immediatly struck with the Paucity of everything
                                    that could be called comfortable, & feared we had not exchanged our
                                    situation for the better, the event proved we had not, the only female we saw
                                    prepared us a miserable supper, which after we had tried to eat, I sat till I
                                    thought I should have fallen on to the floor, so fearful was I of seeing the room
                                    where we were to sleep, while waiting for our repast we heard a groan, & on enquiring if anyone was sick, in the House, was answered
                                    in the affirmative, on asking who it was, they said it was a young Soldier sick with
                                    the camp fever—at last I told Josiah I must go to bed, & we were
                                    shown up a ladder into an appartment where the poor young man,
                                    whom I should not think more than 18 years old lay very ill endeed, so ill they
                                    thought he must die, he looked dreadfully, the head of his bed was close to the door
                                    of the room we were to occupy, which was off its 
                                    hinges & set up as well as it could be without them, it containd two beds
                                    which almost came in contact with each other the room was so small, a window
                                    consisting of Six panes of glass mostly broken, admitted the full moon which shone
                                    with uncommon brilliancy, & helped to make more visible the extreme filth of the place, one traveler seemingly unconscious of the weal or Woe that surrounded him was in one of
                                    the beds, the other was for us, the pillow cases was the color of coal & on
                                    turning down the cloths they were worse if possible, & emitted
                                        such an efluvia that with difficulty I was kept from being sick. O said I,
                                    soon as I recovered power to articulate, dont let us stay here, do go into the barn,
                                    or outdoor, or anywhere rather than pass the
                                    night in such a place as this, it appeared to me it was more dreadful than any place
                                    I had been in through the whole Campaign, (one reason I presume for this was, my having been so much in the open air) that dirt &
                                    confinement appeard terrific)—but Josiah with his prevailing desire to
                                    make the best of every thing observed, dont say a word, they have given us the best
                                    they could, I told him if we must stay, we would not undress, but spread our pocket
                                    handkerchief on the Pillows, & lay down on the out side of the bed, this he
                                    agreed too, which we accordingly did, but sleep had fled, & the bugs which
                                    begun their repast soon as we got warm & from the voraciousness with which
                                    they regaled upon our poor wearied bodies, evinced they had not made a meal for a
                                    long time, combined with the piercing groans of the dying man & the stench
                                    which came from his bed, precluded even the possibility of such a thing—
                                    besids the thundering of the mighty Cataract would have been sufficient to have
                                    banished sleep, with this combination of circumstances you can form some faint Idea of what a dreadful night we passed, & it can be
                                    but faint either, for I have not the command of language sufficient to give you any
                                    adequate conception of the scenee. As soon as the day dawned we arose, &
                                    looking at the young Man as we passed, we saw he was near his end, A person
                                    apparently his own age attended him, perhap he was his Brother, but I asked no
                                    questions & hasted away fearing we had imbibed the disease. In reviewing
                                    this scene I have often thought how supremely selfish I was, instead of passing the
                                    night, in useless regrets, that we were so situated, it was my duty to have
                                    endeavoured to alleviate the sufferings of the sick stranger, possibly I might have
                                    rendered him some service that would have been beneficial, at any rate my own
                                    reflections would not have been so painful at the retrospect. While the man who
                                    drove us was attending to his horse & preparing to depart, we visited the
                                    Falls for a few momments, & bid them Adieu as we thought forever, &
                                    once more taking possession of our splendid Vehicle, we proceeded on our journey
                                    & like the day previous Josiah had to answer, innumerable questions, at
                                    every place we stopped, respecting the surrender, some of which amused, &
                                    others provoked us exceedingly, it rain'd part of the day & the
                                    only shelter we had was an unbralla, which prevented us from being intirely wet
                                    through. We arrived at 
                                        Batavia
                                     about 6, AM, found a good House & had a comfortable nights
                                    rest, which refreshed, & prepared us, for taking the stage the next morning.
                                    We found the stage a good one, fine roads & what was better than either,  very delightful companions, one Officer in the
                                    American Service, two Gentlemen from 
                                        New York
                                    , & a Lady who was going to 
                                        Detroit
                                     but hearing of the Surrender, was on her way back to the City, she had
                                    two Children & two Servants with her, this Lady & the Gentleman all
                                    proved to be very sociable & interesting, minds highly cultivated &
                                    maners very refined, we enjoyed their Society as far as 
                                        Albany
                                    , & have never seen them since, except the Officer who dined
                                    with us once, at Sacketts Harbor, As I am now relating incidents intirely from
                                    memory, which took place twenty years since, I cannot remember at what place we
                                    slept the first night, we travell'd in the Stage nor is it of consequence,
                                    as, but little occured that I can insert here, except we had to Share our room which
                                    contain'd two Beds with our Friend the Officer, the House tho large was
                                    crowded, we passed the second day th[r]o several delightful Villages Cannadagua,
                                    Skeeniatless [Skeneateles], 
                                        Auburn
                                     & 
                                        Geneva
                                    , & others, crossing Lakes & rivers with which that part
                                    of the Country abounds, all tending to charm the eye exhilerate the Spirits,
                                    & raise our thought to that great & good being, who hath made all
                                    things for the comfort & growth of grace, in his intelligent creation if
                                    improved aright, Arrived at 
                                        Uttica
                                     a very beautiful Village at the Head of the Mohawk, a very pretty
                                    river, which only a few years Since wafted the light canoe of the Aboriginies on its
                                    bosom, & their Wigwam adorned its Banks, but now how changed, beautiful
                                    farms, regale the eye of the beholder, & a Canal passes through them, fed by
                                    the Mohawk which conveys beautiful Boats loaded with property, & thousands
                                    of people engaged in different persuits find it, a safe and delightful conveyance,
                                    We put up at Mr Baggs Hotel renowned for its elegant accommodations as its LandLord
                                    is, for his attention & sauvety of manners to all those who are so fortunate
                                    as to make this their resting place, refreshing repose prepared us anew to enjoy the
                                    scenery around us, as well as the very interesting remarks of our travelling
                                    companions, & we arrived at 
                                        Albany
                                     congratuling ourselves on having such an agreable journey so far,
                                    & regretting exceedingly that we must now separate from those who appeard so
                                    worthy of our regard, but we were now near our dear Friends from whom we had been
                                    seperated 17 months, two more days, & we should without accident behold
                                    them, the thought was pleasant indeed, but we found on enquiry that if we continued
                                    directly on to 
                                        Boston
                                     the next day, being Saturday, we must Stop over Sabbath in 
                                        Northampton
                                    , & we concluded to stay in 
                                        Albany
                                     As General Dearborn was at the Military depot near there, with a number
                                    of Officers, whom Josiah wished to see, Saturday Morning we sleep till past the
                                    breakfast hour, & had our morning meal sent into the Parlor where we were
                                    sitting, in one corner of which sat a 
                                        Quaker
                                     Lady of very pleasing aspect, who informed us as a peice of news, that
                                    the Eve previous, An Officer, & his Wife, had arrived directly, from 
                                        Detroit
                                    , who had been taken Prisoners by General Brock, & added, have
                                    you heard any thing about them? We observed we were the Persons, upon which she
                                    expressed her pleasure at seeing us, & made many enquiries, respecting the
                                    transactions, which had excited such commotions, throughout the 
                                        United States
                                    , Soon as it was known we were at 
                                        Albany
                                    , A number of the  Military called on
                                    us, & my Husband was dilligently employed in answering innumerable
                                    Questions, which every new comer wished to have answered. In the Eve, the stage
                                    arrived from Bolston Springs, & a Gentleman & Lady came into the
                                    room where I sat, who in a few moments I recognized to be Lawyer Thurston &
                                    Wife whom I had often seen at Aunt Smiths, Mrs T, being an intimate Friend, of my
                                    Aunts, & associated with her, as managers of the female Orppan Asylum, I
                                    longed to speak to her, but thought it best to wait, & see if she
                                    recollected me, & it was not long before I found she remembered me
                                    perfectly, they appeared much interested in us, & we passed the ensuing
                                    Sabbath together, & for the first time for many a long month, we enjoyed the
                                    means of Grace, with none to molest or make us afraid, & altho I could not
                                    estimate this great privilege, then as I
                                    hope I have since, yet the recollection of that
                                    season is very sweet. Monday Morn, we started for our beloved home cheered with the
                                    prospect of soon seeing our Dear Friends, & delighted, that we had such
                                    agreable companions, for the rest of our journey, for Mr & Mrs T. occupyed
                                    seats in the same stage for 
                                        Boston
                                     with ourselves, we have generally been very fortunte, in meeting good
                                    companey, in all most every situation where our lot has been cast, which we
                                    considered a blessing, for nothing is more unpleasant than disagreable travelling
                                    companions we had a great deal of pleasant conversation, which made the time pass
                                    swiftly, & we arrived at 
                                        Northampton
                                     at rather a late hour in the Evening, A good supper & bed
                                    invigorated our bodies, & early in the morning we persued our journey with
                                    all that intensity of feeling which our situation was calculated to produce, we went
                                    on very pleasantly till about 11 o clock, when our stage gave way & we were
                                    obliged to take open waggons as far as where the stage exchanged, here we found a
                                    good carraige, & proceeded without further accident to 
                                        Boston
                                     where we arrived about 10 at night, Our Dear Mother with a shout of joy
                                    received us with open Armes, & My Dear Sisters Abby & Annah who had
                                    retired for the night, hearing the stage stop & the exclamation of joy that
                                    followed, soon made their appearance & I once more had the pleasure of
                                    embracing those I dearly loved.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews and Notes
            
               The First Lincoln Campaign. By Reinhard H. Luthin. (
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1944, pp. viii, 328. $3.50.)
            This book is based upon extensive research indicated by more than sixty pages of citations and a
                    bibliography of twenty-two pages. Following a chapter on the origins of the Republican party there
                    are sketches of the men regarded as possible nominees for the presidency in 1860. Included are
                    William H. Seward, Salmon P. Chase, Simon Cameron, and Edward Bates, together with less conspicuous
                    men such as William L. Dayton, Cassius M. Clay, Alexander Ramsey. They are shown to have lacked the
                    necessary strength to win the nomination because of their past records and their current political
                    views. Lincoln's success Mr. Luthin discusses under the heading, "The Triumph of
                    Availability." His availability was the result of his conservatism which made him
                    politically attractive in 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        New York
                    , states where antislavery sentiment was weak.
            
                    The most prominent candidate [Seward] had strong and concentrated support. … Beyond
                        this strength, already secured, he had nothing to gain, and the leading position was his only so
                        long as his opponents, divided in their loyalties, failed to unite. When they did unite, the
                        leading candidate was dropped, and a lesser known but less controversial. figure was chosen.
                
            The campaign of 1860 is dealt with in some fifty pages, with conditions described in the states
                    regarded as "safe" for the Republicans and in those held to be
                    "doubtful." Obviously an extended treatment, state by state, was not possible,
                    perhaps not desirable, in such limited space. Because of its importance to Republican victory with
                    thirty-five electoral votes 
                        New York
                     has a chapter devoted to it.
            Certain statements or viewpoints seem to the reviewer to be questionable. In the preface (p. vii) is
                    the statement that "many students of the period are agreed that without Lincoln's
                    victory in November 1860 the war between the sections would not have been precipitated in the
                    following April, …" Does this mean that another Republican would have been less
                    objectionable to the South? Mr. Luthin says (p. 129) that "by 1858 Democrats were shrieking
                    for  disunion and serving notice that the election of a
                    ‘Black’ Republican to the presidency two years hence would be the
                    ‘overt act’ for secession." It would appear, then, that it was the
                    Republican party, not merely its specific representative, Lincoln, which was so obnoxious. Professor
                    Arthur C. Cole questioned the "menace" of Lincoln's election to slavery
                    in the American Historical Review (July, 1931), an item not included in Professor
                    Luthin's bibliography.
            There is some doubt whether the slavery advocates and nonslaveholders actually were in "a
                    race" (p. 28) to populate 
                        Kansas
                    . Agitation over 
                        Kansas
                     probably had greater effect upon opinion outside the territory than in causing people
                    to go there. This has been shown by Professor William O. Lynch in articles on the settlement of 
                        Kansas
                     and by Professor Ralph V. Harlow in an article cited in the same paragraph in which the
                    "race" is mentioned.
            That Lincoln owed his election to the fact that the Democratic party was not united (p. 223) is
                    suggested by the election returns, but an analysis shows that the Lincoln vote was so distributed
                    among populous states that the large minority votes combined would not have given a majority and
                    hence would not have added electoral votes to Lincoln's opponents. (James G. Randall, The Civil War and Reconstruction, 183.)
            It may be questioned, too, whether in a scholarly monograph such words as
                    "Douglasites" (p. 131, et passim),
                    "Lincolnites" (p. 142, et passim), "sure-cure"
                    (p. 225), and such expressions as "Crocodile tears" (p. 122), "bandwagon
                    … wheeled out" (p. 164), "galaxy of oratorical stars" (p.
                    179), "bounded about the country" (p. 186), and "Northwestern
                    swordsman" (p. 199), add to the merits of the work. "Talley" (p. 195)
                    should be "tally"; on the same page "electorate" apparently
                    should be "electoral," and on page 227 "respectfully" should be
                    "respectively." "Alabamin" and "Alabamans" are
                    a few sentences apart on page 128, with "Alabamians" in a quotation on the next
                    page.
            These slips do not detract seriously from the value of this competent account of an election that
                    certainly was among the more significant of our history.
            Will D. Gilliam, Jr.
         
         
         
            
               The Harmonists, A Personal History. By John S. Duss. (
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               : The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Book Service, 1943, pp. xviii, 425. $3.50.)
            This volume is not a history of the Harmony Society. It does, however, contain useful chapters on the
                    European background, "Harmonie in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (1804-1815)," "Harmonie on the 
                        Wabash
                     (1815-1825)," and Economy, in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (1825-1868). This part of the work is a brief and serviceable historical account.
            The work then becomes an autobiography of the author which is of much less interest to students of
                    Indiana history. This part of the story is concerned with the decline and dissolution of the
                    society, and involves many controversial points. The work has been vigorously criticized (The 
                            Western Pennsylvania
                         Historical Magazine, XXVI, 159-166). It is unnecessary here to discuss these
                    points in any detail. The author is obviously a very egotistical man, a man of ability but of
                    sureness and self-confidence. Since his settlement of affairs for the society seems to have been
                    quite profitable for him and his friends, there seems to have been a motive for telling the story
                    from his point of view. Whatever may be the truth about these matters, this record is an important
                    source for a possible historian of the society, but a biased and an imperfect source. It contains
                    incidents which the author insists he remembers as a child of less than three years of age, and
                    "a strange psychological phenomenon," which the author narrates as a fact (pp.
                    119-128). At another point (p. 196) he claims to have lifted "a weight of 1500
                    pounds." He refers to "my short but brilliant professional musical
                    career" (p. 182). He became badly confused about 
                        Nebraska
                     in 1910 when he described it as containing a foreign population of nine hundred
                    thousand and three hundred thousand of native stock. The figures given by the Census Bureau are
                    1,015,552 native born, and 176,662 foreign born. These points are sufficient to indicate that the
                    narrative must be read with much caution.
            To what extent these points may affect one's approach to the chapter which describes
                    Harmonie in Indiana will depend on the individual reader. There are, however, a few questionable
                    statements which may be noted in the earlier portion. He refers (p. 46) to the society ginning
                    "the cotton of neighboring farmers and planters." He states (p. 63)  that the Battle of Fallen Timbers "opened the entire Northwest
                    Territory to white settlement." He has "Coridon" for Corydon, Indiana (p.
                    71). It seems quite unlikely, therefore, that the early chapter in the history of Indiana can be
                    evaluated very highly.
            There are certain features about the story of the Harmony Society that make this work interesting and
                    which make an adequate history very desirable. The society existed for almost a century. It formed
                    three different communities, not one of which was entirely successful, but all of which were
                    probably more successful than is generally realized. The success that attended cooperative effort
                    was rather marked, while ultimate failure or dissolution was probably due to celibacy and the lack
                    of a scheme of recruiting enough new members. It is very interesting to note the author's
                    preference for the freer play allowed individual initiative in the Harmony scheme of communism
                    rather than what he regards as the regimentation of our present administrative procedure.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Arthur St. Clair, Rugged Ruler of the Old Northwest, An Epic of the American
                        Frontier. By Frazer Ells Wilson. (
                  Richmond,
                            Virginia
               : Garrett and Massie, c. 1944,
                    pp. xiii, 253. $3.00.)
            When the 
                        United States
                     extended its authority to the area that is now Indiana, the governor who exercised that
                    authority was Arthur St. Clair. A scholarly life of St. Clair has not been written, and, although
                    this biography has its virtues, it cannot be considered as filling that need. It may call attention
                    to the need and to the opportunity which the subject offers.
            The author has made an extensive study of St. Clair's life. He has previously published The Treaty of Greenville (1894), The Peace of Mad Anthony Wayne
                    (1909), and Advancing the 
                            Ohio
                         Frontier (1937). In the present work he described the various phases of his
                    subject's activity in the Seven Years' War, in the Revolution, and in the Old
                    Northwest. He "adopted a sympathetic rather than a critical attitude," but he did
                    not hide the unfavorable traits of St. Clair or the unfortunate occurrences in his life. One
                    exception  may be noted. He omitted the governor's
                    confirmation of land claims which seems to have been to the advantage of his sons, John Murray St.
                    Clair and Arthur St. Clair, and which seems to have been clearly contrary to law (Francis S.
                    Philbrick, ed., The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801-1809, pp. lxxviii-lxxix). On
                    the other hand, he discussed at some length the events leading to a court martial of St. Clair
                    during the Revolution, the disastrous campaign of 1791 which also resulted in a court martial, and
                    the contest with the Jeffersonians which led to his removal from the governorship of the Old
                    Northwest Territory.
            The author's conclusions are easily distinguishable from his statement of facts. Although
                    often more favorable than the facts seem to warrant, the reader may discount them as he thinks
                    advisable. The discriminating reader will likely get from the facts a different opinion than the one
                    expressed by the author, and will question the use of the term "Epic" in the
                    title. The epic story is that of the frontiersmen whom St. Clair misunderstood and not the story of
                    St. Clair.
            A few errors of statement, a few typographical errors, and other less important features detract
                    slightly from the general character and trustworthiness of the work. It does not seem to be longer
                    than William H. Smith, The Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 1882), and it lacks the documentation of this earlier work. On the whole it seems that
                    its chief service may be in calling attention to the need of a new and scholarly reconsideration of
                    St. Clair's life.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Jefferson Davis and His Cabinet. By Rembert W. Patrick. (
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
               : 
                        Louisiana
                     University Press, 1944, pp. xi, 401. $3.75.)
            This is easily the most scholarly and refreshing study of Jefferson Davis and his Cabinet that has
                    been written to date. While at times it appears that Dr. Patrick is overly sympathetic with the
                    Confederate President and his advisers, a general estimate of the work justifies the conclusion that
                    he has made a valuable contribution to the history of the South. It has been too long the tendency
                    of writers to attriute the failure of the Confederacy to a mediocre administration  at 
                        Richmond
                    . Dr. Patrick's views will be welcomed by those who are concerned with the
                    fundamental causes of the South's defeat.
            The author's treatment of Davis is sympathetic but not partisan. The South turned to its
                    "most suitable citizen" for leadership. The Mississippian was an able and
                    intelligent executive. Despite the fact that he was commander in chief of all the armed forces, and
                    was often blamed for defeats on the field of battle, Davis did not force his views upon the
                    generals. His conscience was often torn between the demand of military expedience and his duty to
                    act within the Constitution. "His inherent weakness as commander in chief was the inability
                    to intervene, with considered judgment, in the Confederacy's military affairs."
            It is erroneous to believe that Jefferson Davis consulted no one in selecting the members of his
                    Cabinet. Although he realized the importance of the geographic factor in the promotion of national
                    solidarity, he also sought the most able men available. The President relied heavily upon
                    recommendations, not only of Congressional delegations, but also from influential private citizens.
                    His appointment of Stephen R. Mallory, however, was contrary to the wishes of 
                        Florida
                     delegation. Personal friendship did not enter into his appointments. Several members
                    were not known to him personally at the time of their selection. Only James A. Seddon could be
                    classed as an intimate friend when he entered the Cabinet.
            The members of the Cabinet, contrary to popular opinion, were not mere clerks or "spineless
                    yes men." The President sought their advice and respected their opinions. He seldom
                    overruled the opinion of the majority. They were given complete control of the details of their
                    respective departments, and Davis defended them loyally against Congressional and newspaper attacks.
                    That fourteen men occupied the six executive positions over the brief period of four years was no
                    indication of a general lack of harmony between them and the President. Most of them were devoted to
                    their chief and remained friendly after leaving the Cabinet.
            Robert Toombs, the first Secretary of State, was not happy in his post nor were he and Davis
                    congenial. The Georgian has deserved more sympathetic treatment, and it seems rather harsh to say
                    that "Toombs was abundantly  endowed with brains, but he
                    often made poor use of them." While his foreign policy was not a success, the same can be
                    said of R. M. T. Hunter and Judah P. Benjamin. "No man in the South could have obtained
                    recognition for the Confederacy."
            The War Department was probably the most difficult of the Cabinet posts. There were six secretaries
                    during the war and it appears that Seddon was the most successful. "No other Secretary of
                    War, not even Benjamin, influenced the South's military strategy to the same extent as did
                    Seddon." Benjamin, Attorney General, Secretary of War, Secretary of State, was the
                    South's "handy-man" and a "jack-of-all-trades." He was
                    the President's alter ego, and his greatest value to the Confederacy was as an adviser and
                    aide to the chief.
            Any Confederate Secretary of the Treasury was bound to be unpopular. Christopher G. Memminger had to
                    contend with a people set against taxation. The inherent weakness of the Confederate fiscal policy
                    was the issuance and dependence upon treasury notes for revenue. Memminger never desired this and it
                    was forced upon him by Congress. The Confederate navy was the creation of genius. Mallory possessed
                    the imagination and initiative to accept new trends in naval construction and to experiment with
                    weapons heretofore untried in naval warfare. He built the first ironclads, and experimented with
                    mines, torpedoes, and submarines. John H. Reagan ranks with Mallory as one of the most able men in
                    the Cabinet. The Post Office Department was the orphan child of the Confederacy, and despite
                    tremendous obstacles, the Texan gave the South a fairly adequate postal system.
            Dr. Patrick presents sound evidence that the collapse of the Confederacy was not due to the defects
                    of the Southern civil administration. The Cabinet was composed of the "ablest men in
                    Southern public life." "The one great failure of the Cabinet was the
                    Confederacy's defeat." The author's treatment of each Cabinet department
                    is excellent, and there is an abundance of valuable information for the student of Southern history.
                    The bibliography is unusually good and the index is adequate.
            Powell Moore
         
         
         
            
               The Saturday Review of Literature, XXVIII, no. 1, January 6, 1945, was a special
                    issue. It featured "The Ohio Valley, a regional inventory."
                    The "guest editor," Walter Havighurst, is Professor of English at 
                        Miami
                     University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , whose recent book, The Long
                        Ships Passing, was reviewed in our March, 1943, issue. He secured articles from an
                    interesting and capable group of writers including Lieutenant Heath Bowman, a native of Indiana;
                    Philip D. Jordan and Robert F. Almy, teachers at 
                        Miami
                     University; Dean Harlan Hatcher of 
                        Ohio
                     State University; Clark B. Firestone and Ted Robinson, of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Times-Star and the 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    Plain Dealer respectively; Grant C. Knight of 
                        Kentucky
                     University; Louis Bromf ield, a writer of note and winner of the Pulitzer prize in
                    1926; and James H. Rodabaugh of the 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society.
            For "a regional inventory" it is surprising that only one of the authors seems
                    closely identified with "regionalism" or "sectionalism." This is
                    in contrast with the number on "The Old South" (January 23, 1945). Perhaps this is
                    the reason why the general impression a reader gets from the articles is that the Ohio
                        Valley is a region without a regional point of view. Indeed the issue does not
                    establish the Ohio Valley as a region and includes two articles which are
                    centered in 
                        Cleveland
                     as though that city were in the Ohio Valley. The authors were not
                    selected with a view to geographical distribution. Half of them came from the Miami
                    Valley and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , four-fifths from 
                        Ohio
                    , and only one-tenth from each of the states of 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana. 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     must feel slighted. It may therefore be suggested that the issue was not well planned,
                    that a wider selection of authors might have produced a better understanding, and a more careful
                    choice of sectional boundaries have yielded evidence of regionalism.
            The opening article denies the existence of regionalism in the Ohio Valley and
                    contains little that was not better done by Frederick J. Turner in "The Middle
                    West." Heath Bowman offers an interesting but oversimplified explanation of the rise and
                    decline of the Hoosier literary tradition which leaves one with the feeling that he regards it as
                    mostly tradition. The disciplinary value of footnote citation, had there been footnotes, might have
                    slowed Philip Jordan in his remarks about religion and schoolteachers. Obviously he indulged  his opinions rather than described ascertainable facts, and
                    probably erroneous opinions at that, when he wrote the following sentences: 
                        When Buckeyes embraced religion, they were apt to shun the "desiccated"
                            theology of the Presbyterians and Congregationalists and whoop it up for days at a time with
                            a jug of corn likker and a ripsnortin' Baptist or Methodist circuit-rider.
                        While they [pioneer pedagogues] might administer liberal doses of "hickory
                            oil" to recalcitrant pupils, they were about as apt to furnish favorites with pipe
                            and tobacco and an occasional pull from the jug.
                    These mar an otherwise good article.
            Clark B. Firestone also slipped a little. "Most of the immigrants [on the 
                        Ohio
                    ] came from 
                  Pennsylvania, New Jersey
               , and 
                        Maryland
                    ." Why was 
                        Virginia
                     omitted? 
                        The last word in this sketch, therefore, belongs to the almost forgotten canals that in 
                                Ohio
                             and Indiana ran northward from the river to the lake, whence the new Erie Canal
                            provided an outlet to the seaboard. They turned the commerce and interests of the Old West
                            towards the North and East. But for them, the Confederate States might have had sister
                            recruits from the right bank of the big border river.
                     This latter is very questionable. It omits the influence of the railroads and a whole host
                    of factors that influenced the decision in 1861. Certainly it is unfair to assume that the
                    nationalism of the Midwest has such a narrow basis.
            SOME NEW AIDS FOR HISTORIANS
            A number of aids or tools for the historians and related professions have been appearing from time to
                    time. Some of these may be noted as being particularly interesting and valuable.
            A Map of North American Indian Languages, compiled and drawn by C. F. Voegelin and
                    E. W. Voegelin (published by the American Ethnological Society in collaboration with Indiana
                    University, n.p., n.d., publication 20 American Ethnological Society, J. J. Augustin, Agent, 125 E.
                    23rd St., 
                  New York, New York
               , $2.00), places in map form recent
                    scholarly work in Indian language groups in America north of Mexico. It supersedes the older J. W.
                    Powell, "Linguistic Stocks of American Indians North of Mexico," published  in the Seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of
                        Ethnology … 1885-86 (
                        Washington
                    , 1891), and in Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico,
                    Frederick W. Hodge (ed.), (
                        Washington
                    , 1907). This earlier map has been used extensively by scholars, has been revised, and
                    has often served as the basis of other maps. Note its revision in "Linguistic Families of
                    American Indians North of Mexico," by J. W. Powell, revised by members of the staff of the
                    Bureau of American Ethnology, 1915, in Indian Population in the 
                            United States
                         and Alaska, 1910 (
                        Washington
                    , Bureau of the Census, 1915), facing p. 9. It was used in preparing the map, plate 33,
                    in Atlas of the Historical Geography of the 
                            United States
                        
               , by Charles O. Paullin (Carnegie Institution of 
                        Washington
                    , 1932). Powell showed the political unit of the tribe, while Professor and Mrs.
                    Voegelin show three units, (1) the area of a language which may be spoken by one or more political
                    units, (2) language family which may be composed of several languages, and (3) language type which
                    consists of two or more language families. Differences in lettering and symbols indicate extinct
                    languages, languages still spoken, and subdivisions of language families.
            The valuable manuscript collection of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society is now described in a guide to aid scholars in using the many papers
                    and volumes of papers. The collection is estimated to contain 2,500 volumes and approximately seven
                    hundred thousand unbound pieces. The present work Guide to the Manuscripts of the 
                            Wisconsin
                         Historical Society, edited by Alice E. Smith (
                        Madison
                    : The Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1944), was preceded by a Descriptive List, as of 1906. The notes for
                    this recent volume were taken in 1940. The Draper Collection which was treated almost exclusively in
                    the earlier Descriptive List is not included in the later work. Very small
                    collections are also omitted. No attempt is made to evaluate the various collections. The
                    description of various items is arranged alphabetically. At the end of the volume there is an
                    extensive index. The state of 
                        Wisconsin
                     is fortunate in having these valuable papers, and scholars generally will appreciate
                    the usefulness of this descriptive guide.
            Another bibliographical aid for the historians is The 
                            United States
                        , 1865-1900, a survey of current literature with abstracts of unpublished
                        dissertations, edited by Curtis W.  Garrison (published
                    by The Rutherford B. Hayes-Lucy Webb Hayes Foundation: 
                  Fremont, Ohio
               , 1944). This
                    bibliography is volume two of what is intended to be a series. It covers the months from September,
                    1942, to December, 1943. It includes appraisals of the contributions made by books and articles
                    classified topically and regionally. The appraisals were made by a large number of historians,
                    experts in the field in which they prepared appraisals. Each section or division of the work
                    contains a summary of the contributions of the various books appearing in the field. An interesting
                    evaluation of textbooks in history is a new feature added to this volume. It should prove to be very
                    helpful as far as it goes, and, if continued in future volumes, may become quite significant.
                    Finally a section containing abstracts of unpublished dissertations is included. This should prove
                    to be very useful. An index and list of contributors concludes the work. Students and teachers may
                    secure a copy for fifty cents, but libraries will find the cost to be one dollar.
            Two atlases of American history have appeared in the last two years. The Atlas of
                        American History, edited by James T. Adams and R. V. Coleman (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1943, pp. xi, 360. $10.00), appears to be
                    the most useful historical atlas in the American history field. The maps were drawn under the
                    supervision of one or more historians and each map was developed to illustrate a phase, period, or
                    event. Sixty-three maps are included in the colonial period, fifty-eight cover the history from the
                    beginning of the Revolution to the beginning of the Civil War, while twenty-six illustrate American
                    history from 1861 to 1912. There are none for the years since 1912. Indeed beginning with 1861
                    nothing receives adequate treatment except the Civil War and the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. The work is strongest in the period of settlement or the frontier and in the
                    military phases of the various wars, except the Spanish-American and World War, I. Although minute
                    criticisms can be made, the outstanding characteristic of the volume is its excellence.
            
               The Historical Atlas of the 
                            United States
                        
               , by Clifford L. Lord and Elizabeth H. Lord (
                        New York
                    : Henry Holt and Company, c. 1944, pp. xviii, 253. $1.75), contains 312 maps
                    picturing a very wide variety of subjects of interest to students  and teachers of American history. Most of the maps are in black and white with a few in brown,
                    black, and white. If one were to criticize unfavorably, the criticism would perhaps be that the maps
                    are quite small, many not containing the necessary detail that would make them most useful. The
                    material upon which the maps are based is such that it can be shown by three to six degrees of
                    shading or by more or less simple lines. It is likely to prove quite useful, and everyone must be
                    pleasantly surprised at the quantity of maps given for the very reasonable price.
            Interestingly enough, these two atlases are not competitors. The technics, material, and types of
                    subjects are different. They are, therefore, supplementary. Every good library, private or public,
                    should have a copy of each.
            A work, which would be an aid if properly prepared, is so poor that a notice of it in this connection
                    is somewhat questionable. It is a Bibliography of County Histories of the 3050 Counties
                        in the 4-8 States, compiled by Ex-Lieut. C. Stewart Peterson (a mimeographed publication;
                            
                  Baltimore, Maryland
               , 1944, pp. 49. $1.25). The character of the work
                    may be illustrated by a quotation: "Histories have been written of nearly all of the
                    Counties of 
                        California
                     in some form or other. The counties, of which no histories have been written are
                    … [nine counties are listed]." Then follows the name of one county history.
                    There are fifty-eight counties in 
                        California
                    . For 
                        Illinois
                     the reader is referred to Solon J. Buck, Travel and Description,
                        1765-1865, … {Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library, IX, 
                        Springfield
                    , 1914), and is given a list of histories most of which have been published since the
                    appearance of the above bibliography. In respect to Indiana we are told "County histories
                    have been written in some form or other for every County in the State," but not one is
                    listed.
            The urge to publish should be restrained until the publication can be more complete. There is need
                    for a bibliography of county histories but it should be an actual biblography.
            Graduate students and their instructors will find virtues as well as defects in 
                        Sherman
                    
                    
                        Kent
                    , Writing History (
                        New York
                    : F. S. Crofts & Co., 1941, pp. xi, 136. $1.00). It is a brief,
                    rather breezy, little book, with considerable emphasis upon writing and style, and much less upon
                    the problems of  extracting the truth from imperfect documents
                    and of recognizing error, bias, and misstatements. Very little is included about the necessity of
                    consulting eye-witness accounts rather than investigating writings of all kinds. Ten per cent of the
                    work concerns the making of an index. Many will take exception to the recommendation
                    "Modernize all spelling in quoted passages." The chief advantage of the work lies
                    in the possibility of its being read by those unwilling to read a more substantial work. Most
                    efforts to offer something lighter than the excellent work of C. V. Langlois and Charles Seig-nobos
                    have lost more than they have gained. Is it not possible that this work deserves to be
                republished?
         
         
         
            The Editor's Pages
            Welcome, Howard H. Peckham
            The Indiana Magazine of History joins with the Indiana Historical Bureau and the
                    Indiana Historical Society in welcoming Howard H. Peckham to Indiana. We wish for him success in his
                    new work and pleasant living in his new home.
            For those unacquainted with Mr. Peckham, let us state that according to report he was born in
                            
                  Lowell, Michigan
               , on July 13, 1910, that he studied at Olivet College two
                    years before attending the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , where he received the bachelor's degree in 1931 and master's degree
                    in 1933. He was an editorial writer for The Grand Rapids Press, 1935. He became
                    Curator of Manuscripts at the William L. Clements Library, 
                  Ann
                            Arbor, Michigan
               , in 1936,
                    and while serving in this capacity, he completed additional graduate work in the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , contributed to historical journals, edited three books, taught American history in the
                    university's military program, and offered courses in the library school and in the
                    extension service. He was appointed University War Historian in 1943 and was charged with collecting
                    the records of the university's war activity for publication. He now becomes (as of
                    February 1) Director of the Indiana Historical Bureau and Secretary of the Indiana Historical
                    Society.
            His new position is one of responsibility and opportunity. Although Indiana has one of the oldest
                    historical societies, it has scarcely kept pace in publication with the more forward of the Middle
                    Western states as 
                  Wisconsin, Illinois
               , and 
                        Ohio
                    . It is not a large society since it contains approximately 1250 members and of these
                    approximately one-fourth reside in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Obviously there is opportunity for him in enlarging the program and the society. The
                    opportunity should challenge Mr. Peckham, and Mr. Peckham's ability and leadership should
                    challenge the people of Indiana to support him loyally in his new work. The Indiana
                        Magazine of History welcomes him and pledges him its best cooperation in furthering the
                    cause of Indiana history.
            
            The Mississippi Valley Historical Society Spring Meeting, April
                    26, 27, 28, 1945
            Because of war conditions the Executive Committee of the society has cancelled the spring meeting
                    which was to have been held in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. Indiana University was anticipating with great pleasure the prospect of
                    entertaining the society on the campus this spring and consequently regrets very much the necessity
                    which led to this change of plans. It will, however, look forward to the return of peace when it can
                    renew its invitation and hope for another opportunity of entertaining the members of this important
                    historical society.
            Southern Historical Society
            The editor has been asked to serve on the membership committee of the Southern Historical Society and
                    to seek additional members in Indiana. Since it will be impossible to contact many persons by mail
                    or in person, perhaps a few words here may help. The Southern Historical Society is one of the
                    younger sectional historical associations. It is devoted to the history of the South rather broader
                    interpreted. It is made up of a fine group of persons who are interested in Southern history. No
                    doubt there are many persons in Indiana who would like to belong to the society, to read the Journal of Southern History, and to attend its meetings when the war is over. The
                    membership dues are $3.00 per year. The secretary-treasurer is Professor James W. Patton, 
                        North Carolina
                     State College, 
                        Raleigh
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    . Many articles of interest to Indianans have appeared in the Journal
                    and it alone will repay the cost of membership. The editor will be glad to forward any applications
                    for membership that may be sent to him.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            CLARK COUNTY MARRIAGE RECORDS, 1807-18151
            
            DOROTHY RIKER
            
            Although 
                        Clark County
                     was organized in 1801, the first dates in the marriage records are for 1807. Two
                    earlier marriages, John Covert to Rachel Stootsman, September 9, 1802, and Robert Biggs to Ellanor
                    Irwin, October 5, 1802, are recorded in 
                        Clark County
                     Deed Records, 1:279, 320. During part of the period covered by the following records,
                    the present Harrison, Jefferson, Scott, and Floyd counties were a part of 
                        Clark County
                    . The residence of the person performing the marriage may provide a clue to the
                    residence of the participants. Patrick Shields and Clement Nance were later residents of 
                        Harrison County
                    ; Samuel Smock, John Vawter, and John Ryker resided in that part of Clark which became 
                        Jefferson County
                    .
            In some cases the date given in the records is the date of the marriage license, while in other cases
                    it is the date of the certificate or marriage returned to the county clerk. In the following list,
                    the former is indicated by "L" and the latter by "C." The first
                    pages of the marriage records are badly torn; some of the names are missing and others are almost
                    illegible. For the first seven marriages, only the brides' names remain. These were: 
                        Mary Carson [date torn]; Elizabeth Carr, L, 3-14-1807; Elizabeth Humphreys [date torn];
                            Elizabeth Gwin, C, 2-?-1807; [torn] Holland, L, 4-?-1807; Amy Speak, L, 5-22-1807; Mary Van
                            devanter, L, 6-8-1807.
                    
                
            From here on the records are almost complete.
            
                    
                  Edw[torn] to Jane Dowden, L, 6-22-1807, by Thomas Allen.
                  Isaac [torn] to Nancy Cleghorn, L, 6-24-1807, by same.
                  James Smith to Nancy Fortead [?], L, 7-4-1807.
                  Thomas Witson to Susannah Smallwood, L, 8-3-1807, by Thomas Allen.
                  Charles Younger to Sarah Sullivan Percell, L, 8-21-1807, by James Lemon.
                  James Toor to Sally Boone, L, 8-24-1807. 
                        
                           1 Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                        Clark County
                                    , Indiana, Marriage Records, Vol. A, made for the Historical Records
                                    Survey, Works Progress Administration, in 1936, and deposited in the Archives
                                    Division of the Indiana State Library. A typed transcript of the first one hundred
                                    marriages, compiled from the original records by the 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution in 1929, has been
                                    used for the first marriages with some alight changes in spelling of the
                                names.
                     
                  
                  
                  Thomas Dawsey [?] to Peggy McSwene, L, 10-20-1807, by John Douthitt, Esqr.
                  John Thompson Gray to Mary Ormsby, L, 10-22-1807, by James Lemon.
                  Peter Eater [Etter?] to [torn] Lawrence, L, 12-1-1807, by John Douthitt.
                  Abraham Portelow [?] to Elizabeth Nation, L, 12-26-1807, by James Lemon.
                  James Stewart to Nancy Barkshire, L, 1-6-1808.
                  Charles Barkshire to Sarah Heckman, L, 2-8-1808, by Patrick Shields.
                  William Stalling to Ann Rogers, L, 2-16-1808.
                  Benajah Brown to Mary Pearce, L, 3-7-1808, by James Lemon.
                  Jesse Huff to Jenny Hufer [?], C, 2-4-1808, by Charles Johnston.
                  Joseph W[torn] to Anna Williams, C, 1-7-1808, by Samuel Smock.
                  John B[torn] to Elizabeth Carr, C, 3-6-1808, by John Reese.
                  James Dowden to Rachel Harrard, L, 4-18-1808.
                  James [torn] to Sarah Shankins, C, 7-8-1807, by John Douthitt.
                  Jona [torn] to Elizabeth Thornsberry, C, 5-21-1807, by same.
                  Thom [torn] to Nancy Holmes [?], C, 5-21-1808.
                  Jo[torn] to [torn], L, 6-2-1808, by James Lemon.
                  [Torn] to [torn], L, 6-10-1808, by John McClung.
                  Robert Hensley to Matilday Foulenor, C, 4-10-1808, by Samuel Smock.
                  Rezin Webster to Elizabeth Eastin, L, 7-2-1808, by Waller Taylor.
                  Zack Pennington to Rachel Decker, C, 7-12-1808, by Dennis Pennington.
                  William Stephens to Polly Garner, L, 7-15-1808, by Thomas Allen.
                  John Perry to Anny Parks, L, 7-27-1808.
                  James Fislar to Susanna Bowman, L, 8-3-1808, by Waller Taylor.
                  Thomas W. Thruston to [torn] D. Luckett, L, 8-30-1808, by James Lemon.
                  Joshua Thompson to [torn] Redmond, L, 10-5-1808.
                  Hezekiah Wright to Elizabeth Landman, L, 10-7-1808, by Waller Taylor, Judge Gen'l
                            Court.
                  John Moffett to Lucy Jones, L, 10-29-1808, by James Lemon.
                  Henry Moon [?] to [torn] Brightman, L, 12-7-1808, by same.
                  William Glazbrook to [torn] da Walker, L, 12-27-1808, by Thomas Allen.
                  Willis Stuker [Stacker?] to [torn] Storm, C, 12-29-1808, by Charles Johnston.
                  James Martin to Elizabeth Bowman, C, 1-21-1808 [1809?], by Clement Nance.
                  Josiah Wickkins to Lucy [?] Pile, L, 3-12-1809, by James Lemon.
                  James Chambers to [torn] Blankenship, C, 3-7-1809, by Samuel Smock.
                  David Stewart to [torn] Blackman [?] (widow), L, 3-23-1809, by William Goodwin.
                  Perdue Silvester to [torn] Scott, L, 4-3-1809, by John Douthitt.
                  Willis Law to [torn], C, 3-29-1809, by Samuel Smock.
                  Thomas Jacobs to [torn] Holeman, L, 5-22-1809.
                  William Dowden to [torn] Crum, L, 6-5-1809, by John McClung.
                  Joseph Malott to [torn] Daily, L, 6-14-1809, by James Lemon.
                  James Henderson to Catherine Sigman, L, 6-23-1809.
                  John Mitchell to Hannah Fields, L, 7-1-1809, by James Lemon.
                  Samuel Langford to [torn] Hall, C, 7-1-1809, by John Ryker.
                  [Torn] to Elizabeth Fout, [date torn], by Waller Taylor.
                  
                  [Torn] to Elizabeth Beler [?], [date torn], by James Lemon.
                  Isaac Thickston to Polly Neal, C, 7-13-1809, by Samuel Smock.
                  Alexander Young to Elizabeth Blizzard, L, 9-12-1809.
                  William Holms to Margaret Cressemore, L, 9-25-1809, by John Douthitt.
                  Jacob Leachman to Elizabeth Holtstetler, L, 9-25-1809, by James Lemon.
                  John McClintock to Mary Provine, C, 4-6-1809, by James Davis, Esqr.
                  Benjamin Sanders to Elizabeth Stutzman, C, 3-3-1809, by same.
                  Samuel Bridgman to Sally Bennett, L, 10-4-1809, by John Douthitt
                  William Bullock to Elizabeth Walker, L, 10-9-1809, by Thomas Allen.
                  George Pearceall to Nelly Torr [?], L, 10-14-1809, by James Lemon.
                  Henry Sinclear to Rachel Chambers, C, 9-10-1809, by Samuel Smock.
                  Daniel Sullivan to Lidia Watts [Wales?], C, 9-21-1809, by same.
                  Ebenezer Hillis to Ruth Ryker, C, 9-28-1809, by same.
                  Zephaniah Dowden to Esther Blizard, L, 10-21-1809.
                  James Page to Elizabeth Eppler, L, 11-21-1809, by John Douthitt.
                  Er. Cox to Elizabeth Lane [Larue?], C, 11-15-1809, by John Vawter.
                  William Jones to Susanna Dowden, C, 12-2-1809, by Absalom Little.
                  William Royse to Martha McGuire, L, 12-26-1809, by John Douthitt.
                  Sanders Monro to Nancy Cline, C, 8-7-1808, by Samuel Smock.
                  Joseph Turner to Nancy Megloghlin, C, 8-4-1808, by same.
                  John Hensley to Polly Staples, C, 9-4-1808, by same.
                  Evans Rawley to Ann Wright, C, 8-24-1809, by John Beggs.
                  John Drummond to Rebecca Work, C, 8-31-1809, by same.
                  John Abell [Abbet?] to Martha Harris, C, 9-7-1809, by same.
                  William Smith to Mary Ann Ring, C, 11-30-1809, by same.
                  Abraham Wh[torn] to Susanna Hougland, C, 11-12-1809, by Samuel Smock.
                  Nicholas Griss to Nancy Beggs, C, 12-7-1809, by George Newland.
                  John Williams to Susy Cumberland, C, 12-28-1809, by same.
                  Jacob Menden[h]all to Rachel Lamb, L, 1-10-1810, by John Douthitt.
                  Elic Jacobs to Jane Blizzard, L, 2-24-1810, by same.
                  Daniel Heckman to Nancy Phillips, C, 11-29-1809, by John Ryker, J.P.
                  Joseph Howard to Elizabeth McCarty, C, 12-28-1809, by same.
                  Enoch McCarty to Rebecca Howard, C, 12-29-1809, by same.
                  Elisha Dewitt to Elizabeth Talor [Jalor?], C, 3-8-1810, by James Davis.
                  Foster Hensley to Melindy Foulenor, C, 3-18-1810, by Samuel Smock.
                  Jeremiah Lamb to Rachel Hoggatt, L, 5-22-1810.
                  John Deitz to Caty McDonald, L, 6-10-1810, by J. Douthitt.
                  Acquilla Tucker to Nancy Neal, L, 6-12-1810, by John McClung.
                  Brazilla Clarke to Susan Scole, L, 6-21-1810, by Edmund H. Taylor.
                  James Blackwood to Sarah Holmes, L, 7-6-1810, by John Douthitt.
                  Liman Beeman to Sarah Melott, L, 7-8-1810.
                  Thomas Fisher to Harriott T. Hughes, L, 7-10-1810, by James Lemon.
                  Bargin Covert to Anny Wiggle, C, 7-12-1810, by George Newland.
                  William McGonigill to Catharine Joyes, L, 7-19-1810, by E. H. Taylor.
                  Ezekiel Watkins to Sally Demar [?], L, 7-25-1810, by James Lemon.
                  Persons of color.
                  John Odem to Nancy Hilton, L, 8-1-1810.
                  Peter Etta [Etter?] to Elizabeth Pearceall, L, 8-4-1810, by John Douthitt.
                  
                  Samuel Harrard to Mary Robertson, L, 8-16-1810.
                  Michael Lewis to Elizabeth Omer [?], L, 8-26-1810, by James Lemon.
                  Alexander Haugary to Jane Reymond, L, 9-9-1810.
                  Jacob Stillwell to Rachel Gassaway, L, 9-10-1810, by Thomas Allen.
                  Joseph Linn to Jane Carson, L, 9-12-1810, by James Lemon.
                  Henry Slaughter to Nancy Wickkins, L, 9-29-1810, by same.
                  Thomas McNight [McNaught] to Catharine Bartholomew, L, 10-9-1810.
                  John Owens to Rachel Calloway, C, 8-13-1810.
                  Thomas Worrell to Catherine McClintick, L, 10-15-1810, by James Lemon.
                  John Wood to Susanna Thickston, C, 10-11-1810, by Samuel Smock.
                  James Montgomery to Cath[erine?] Storm, C, 6-14-1810, by same.
                  John Work, Jr., to Elizabeth Owens [Owner?], L, 10-27-1810, by Thomas Allen.
                  John Griffin to Nancy Lanredge [?], C, 4-8-1810, by John Ryker.
                  James Pickett [?] to Catharine Graffer, C, 8-16-1810, by same.
                  Rezon Craven [?] to Elizabeth Mahony, L, 11-6-1810, by James Lemon.
                  Jacob Fouts to Nelly Dugan, C, 10-30-1810, by Charles Johnson.
                  Samuel Alexander to Margaret Stucker, C, 12-27-1810, by same.
                  Robert Irvin to Mary Pearcall, L, 1-16-1811, by James Lemon.
                  John Chambers to Elizabeth Hawkins, C, 10-18-1810, by John Vawter.
                  Fay Davis to Adeline Offon, L, 2-8-1811, by James Lemon.
                  John Hobson to Sarah Hanagen, L, 2-28-1811, by Isaac Lindsey.
                  Henry Ward to Kitty Renard, L, 3-11-1811, by James Lemon.
                  Thomas Ford (free negro) to Mr. Smith's Rebecca, L, 3-16-1811, by John T. Chunn.
                  Joseph Robinson to June Browers, C, 10-30-1810, by John Reese.
                  John Trueblood to Jane Woods, L, 3-21-1811, by James Lemon.
                  Elisha Harley to Patsey Summers, L, 3-21-1811, by John Douthitt.
                  Samuel Hay to Elizabeth Holland, C, 3-21-1811, by same.
                  Jonathan Lewis to Sarah McCaun, L, 3-30-1811, by James Lemon.
                  Samuel Brewer to Margarette Holmes, L, 4-17-1811, by John McClung.
                  Isaac Wynn to Catherine Kelly, L, 5-4-1811†.2
                  
                  William Perry to Elizabeth Fleehart, L, 5-7-1811, by William McCoy.
                  Abraham Miller to Amy Applegate, L, 5-7-1811, by John T. Chunn.
                  Philip Brock to Lavina Moser, L, 5-25-1811, by same.
                  Ambrose Camp to Mary L. Gray, L, 5-25-1811, by Waller Taylor.
                  Pleasant H. Baird to Mary McCaul, L, 5-28-1811, by James Lemon.
                  David Irvin to Nancy Abbott, C, 7-5-1810, by James Davis.
                  Thomas Applegate to Hannah Wardle, C, 5-9-1811, by same.
                  William McClintick to Rebecca Provine, C, 5-30-1811, by same.
                  John Cochran to Hannah Shaw, L, 6-4-1811, by John T. Chunn.
                  William Evirres to Kitty Hoke, L, 6-5-1811, by James Lemon.
                  David Vance to Amy L. McCampbell, L, 6-7-1811, by John Todd.
                  George Goodwin to Esther Fowler, L, 6-10-1811.
                  Elisha Esum to Catherine Vogal, C, 6-11-1811, by James Davis.
                  Fulden Chamberlain to Jane Graham, C, 6-5-1811, by James Lemon.
                  William Saffer to Elizabeth Arterborne, C, 8-18-1811, by same.
                  Gabriel Loring to Tompsey Jackson, C, 2-2-1811, by same. 
                        
                           2 The cross probably indicates a Catholic marriage.
                     
                  
                  
                  James McDonald to Nancy Brown, L, 7-6-1811, by James Davis.
                  John Denny to Sarah Kelly, L, 7-18-1811, by John McClung.
                  John Reed to Fanny Dodge, L, 7-24-1811.
                  Joseph Bartholomew to Elizabeth McNaught, L, 7-30-1811.
                  Silas Boicourt to Anny Guest, L, 8-1-1811, by Jeremiah Stillwell.
                  Jonathan Jennings to Anny G. Hay, L, 8-8-1811, by James Lemon.
                  John Taylor to Catherine Yancy, L, 8-13-1811.
                  Edward McGuire to Polly Lucas, L, 8-15-1811, by Waller Taylor.
                  Henry Giles to Catherine Browers, C, 7-18-1811, by John Reese.3
                  
                  Jacob Stark to Anna Robeson, C, 2-15-1809, by Jonathan Stark.
                  John K. Graham to Elizabeth Welch, C, 7-15-1810, by same.
                  William McGomery to Jane Dugan, C, 11-28-1810, by same.
                  Hugh Sanders to Sarah Stark, C, 12-15-1810, by same.
                  Daniel McNew to Polly Dunbar, C, 1-18-1811, by same.
                  James Bryan to Sarah Bloom, L, 9-16-1811, by Thomas Allen.
                  Samuel Marrs to Jane Reed, L, 9-30-1811, by William McCoy.
                  John Richey to Sicley Collings, L, 10-1-1811, by John Reese.
                  John Bland to Mary Bland, L, 10-9-1811, by Thomas Allen.
                  Mark Trueblood to Millington Astens [?], L, 10-14-1811.
                  Frederick Coulson to Sally Guest, L, 10-22-1811.
                  Jacob House to Catherine Bottorff, L, 10-23-1811, by Thomas Allen.
                  William Bowman to Sarah Neal, L, 10-27-1811, by James Lemon.
                  Bartholomew Jenkins to Margarette Groves, L, 10-28-1811, by Absalom Little.
                  Samuel Harmon to Sarah Davis, C, 8-18-1811, by same.
                  Robert Stewart to Rosanne Long, L, 11-23-1811, by James Ferguson.
                  Gasper Pope to Rebecca Pearceall, L, 12-9-1811, by John Beggs.
                  Rezin Redman to Eliza Downs, L, 12-19-1811, by William McCoy.
                  Henry Hobbs to Nancy Pippin, L, 1-1-1812, by James Hobbs.
                  Rice G. McCoy to Melinda Pound, L, 1-2-1812, by William McCoy
                  John T. Little to Mary Neeld, L, 1-7-1812, by same.
                  William Petyjohn to Anny Little, L, 1-7-1812, by same.
                  Thomas Cooke to Polly Barker, L, 2-4-1812.
                  William Lewis to Nancy Kelley, L, 2-5-1812.
                  Jacob Pearceall to Arty Edwards, L, 2-8-1812, by William Erwin, justice of peace, 
                                Harrison County
                            .
                  James Tilford to Polly Workman, L, 2-11-1812, by William McCoy.
                  John Kelley to Martha Plaskett, L, 2-17-1812, by same.
                  John Wood to Lucy Henderson, L, 2-21-1812, by James Davis.
                  Aaron Tipps to Hannah Kelly, C, 1-2-1812, by William McCoy.
                  Elijah Hanagen to Lydia Royse, C, 1-5-1812, by same.
                  Jehu Sutton to Letty Davis, C, 3-10-1812, by James Davis.
                  Lewis Price to Elizabeth McDonald, C, 3-5-1812, by same.
                  Robert Montgomery to Elizabeth McNew, C, 11-28-1811, by John Reese.
                  Bazil Prather to Christena Hamilton, L, 2-24-1812.
                  Solomon Jacobs to Elizabeth Swartz, L, 4-13-1812.
                  Alexander Findley to Nancy Ritchy, C, 4-19-1812, by George Newland.
                  Peter Smith to Rachel Gibson, L, 4-18-1812, by James McCampbell. 
                        
                           3 The certificates for this and the following five marriages
                                    were marked "returned September 7."
                     
                  
                  
                  Ignatius Thompson to Mary Walker, L, 5-15-1812.
                  John Clark to Nancy Henny [?], C, 5-16-1812, by George Newland.
                  Alexander Richard to Sarah Long, C, 6-7-1812, by John Reese.
                  Joseph Bower to Rachel Carril, L, 7-15-1812.
                  Robert L. Plaskett to Barbary Bottorff, L, 7-24-1812.
                  Thomas Nicholson to Mary Hooker, L, 7-28-1812, by Charles Johnston.
                  William Arnold to Sally Trueblood, L, 8-2-1812, by Richard Aston.
                  Enoch Parr to Nancy Carr, L, 8-14-1812, by William McCoy.
                  John Coombes to Susanna Cleghorn, L, 8-19-1812, by same.
                  Jonathan Johnston to Hannah Kimes, C, 7-30-1812, by George Newland.
                  Michael Coons to Elizabeth Gobin [?], L, 8-29-1812.
                  James Garner to Polly Warnock, L, 9-11-1812.
                  Jonathan Carson to Sarah Lewis, L, 10-12-1812, by Richard Aston.
                  Robert Galaspy to Nancy Montgomery, C, 10-12-1812, by John Reese.
                  George Rider to Christena Tipps, L, 10-19-1812, by James McCampbell.
                  Reuben Stead [?] to Patsy Pile, L, 10-26-1812.
                  Absalom Carr to Jane Weir, L, 10-28-1812, by William McCoy.
                  Henry Lang to Elizabeth Hollingsworth, L, 10-28-1812, by James Davis.
                  Conrod Tipps to Rachel Hudson, L, 11-10-1812.
                  James Shipman [?] to Nancy Dowden, L, 12-3-1812, by John McClung.
                  Samuel Bottorff to Anna Swartz, L, 12-15-1812, by James McCampbell.
                  Henry Cressmore [?] to Nancy Holmes, L, 12-19-1812, by same.
                  William Williams to Susannah McClintock, L, 12-21-1812.
                  Vinegard Pound to Elenor Hutchings, L, 12-28-1812, by William McCoy.
                  Stephen Hutchings to Elizabeth Work, L, 12-28-1812, by same.
                  Jacob Fisler to Susan Garner, L, 12-30-1812.
                  James Robertson to Nancy Tucker, L, 1-6-1813.
                  Abner Stark to Rebecca Duky, C, 1-3-1813, by Jonathan Stark.
                  Arnold Hutson to Nancy Roby, L, 1-20-1813.
                  David Coombes to Hannah Drummond, L, 2-3-1813, by William McCoy.
                  John Galien to Mary Stanes [?], C, 12-31-1812, by George Newland.
                  William McCombs to Margarette Clark, C, 1-5-1813, by same.
                  John Scott to Priscilla Lewis, L, 2-22-1813, by Richard Aston, Jr.
                  Samuel Hinkle to Polly Byers, L, 2-23-1813, by John H. Thompson.
                  Charles Steed to Sarah Bowman, L, 3-4-1813, by W. W. Goodwin.
                  Martin Huckleberry to Susannah Hester, C, 2-21-1813, by James Davis.
                  Daniel Robertson to Lucy Glazebrook, L, 3-11-1813.
                  Andrew Fait to Catherine Mosley, L, 3-22-1813, by W. W. Goodwin.
                  Noah Anderson to Elizabeth Work, L, 3-26-1813.
                  Thomas Arbuckle to Jane Montgomery, L, 3-30-1813, by Charles Johnston.
                  James Garner to Elizabeth Robertson, L, 3-31-1813.
                  Thomas Davis to Sarah Reese, L, 4-2-1813, by John Reese.
                  John Smith to Kitty Thorn Emmons, L, 4-13-1813.
                  Jacob Booker to Jane Wattles, L, 4-13-1813.
                  John Loudon to Ruthy McNew, C, 2-17-1813, by Samuel Patterson.
                  Samuel Gaines to Peggy Tucker, C, 4-9-1813, by same.
                  Wallace Sullender to Susanna Barnaby, L, 5-8-1813.
                  William Bettesworth to Elizabeth Colett, L, 5-18-1813, Gratis (runaway).
                  Robert Thompson to Elizabeth Robinson, L, 5-22-1813, by David Fouts.
                  
                  David Owens to Rebekah Goben, C, 5-13-1813, by George Newland.
                  John Stover to Catherine Pettitt, C, 5-23-1813, by same.
                  Joseph Perry to Jane Sweney, C, 6-7-1813, by John Weathers.
                  Daniel Pettitt to Anna Rush, L, 6-10-1813.
                  Josiah Thomas to Mary Shawhan, L, 6-14-1813.
                  John H. Thompson to Margrett Melony, L, 6-29-1813.
                  Charles McGrue to Susanna Denny, L, 7-2-1813, by Andrew Beeman.
                  John Eldridge to Mary Sigman, L, 7-12-1813.
                  John Dunbar to Mary Robinson, L, 7-20-1813.
                  Henry Huckleberry to Susannah Wigle, L, 7-27-1813, by John H. Thompson.
                  James Downs to Ann C. Readman [Redman], L, 7-29-1813.
                  Aaron Holman to Letha Hilton [?], L, 8-6-1813, by John Prather.
                  John Underwood to Nancy Blackburn, C, 6-13-1813, by Samuel Patterson.
                  Amos Robertson to Nancy Warnock, L, 8-18-1813.
                  Alexander D. Neely to Sarah Renard, L, 8-21-1813.
                  William G. Gulick to Sarah Adams, L, 8-27-1813, by John McClung.
                  Philip Rodgers to Hannah Worrell, L, 8-31-1813, by John H. Thompson.
                  Amos Greer to Minty Watson (widow), L, 9-15-1813, by same.
                  Abraham Stootsman to Barbara Parkey, C, 9-9-1813, by Joseph Bower.
                  Benjamin Poole to Nancy Ritchey, C, 3-?-1813, by same.
                  Sihon S. Prather to Elizabeth Simmons, L, 9-27-1813.
                  Thomas Sanders to Hannah Apple, C, 8-5-1813, by Charles Johnston. Returned September 29.
                  Abel Finley to Prudence Finley, C, 9-21-1813, by same.
                  John Austin to Nancy Epler, L, 10-6-1813.
                  David Smith to May Ward, L, 10-7-1813, by Andrew Beeman.
                  Robert Laurence to Ruthey Wates [?], C, 8-5-1813, by Samuel Patterson. Returned October
                            22.
                  George Green to Mary Robey, L, 10-25-1813, by Jeremiah Stilwell.
                  Samuel Plaskett to Polly Rush, L, 10-27-1813.
                  Peter Hagerman to Susannah Pearcall, L, 10-29-1813.
                  John Parks to Mary Foredyce, L, 11-6-1813, by John H. Thompson.
                  John Curry to Susannah Daniel, L, 11-15-1813, by Joseph Bower.
                  Robert Holmes to Nancy Dowden, L, 11-29-1813, by James McCampbell.
                  John Evans to Amy Moore, C, 5-11-1813, by John H. Thompson.4
                  
                  Samuel Wells to Mary Carna, C, 9-22-1813, by same.
                  Moses Harmon to Jane Evans, C, 4-7-1813, by same.
                  Joseph Biggs to Sally Fleehart, C, 10-21-1813, by same.
                  Mordecai Sweney to Elizabeth McCampbell, C, 5-19-1813, by same.
                  Elisha Carr to Elizabeth Runnels, C, 9-16-1813, by same.
                  Bennett May to Susan Pemberton, C, 9-7-1812, by same.
                  Jesse Tucker to Mary McGaughty (widow), L, 12-15-1813, by same.
                  Isaac Stewart to Susan Redman, L, 12-22-1813.
                  Thomas T. Tonstal to Lavina Miller, L, 12-24-1813, by John Prather.
                  George Preston to Willinghannah [?] Huff (widow), L, 12-30-1813.
                  William Vanlandingham to Elizabeth Taffe, C, 12-21-1813, by Absalom Little. 
                        
                           4 The certificates for this and the following six marriages
                                    were marked "returned November 30."
                     
                  
                  
                  George Eoss to Margarette Ferguson, L, 1-2-1814, by James Scott.
                  Jeremiah G. Shelton to Rebecca Ogle, C, 11-28-1813, by Charles Johnston.
                  Joseph Curtis to Sarah Rush, C, 1-27-1814, by same.
                  Benoni P. Wood to Priscilla Sullender, L, 2-7-1814.
                  Hugh Casey to Nancy Freeman (widow), L, 2-25-1814, by Richard Aston.
                  James Preist to Nancy Fargerqr [Farquar?], C, 1-20-1814, by Samuel Patterson.
                  Moses Stark to Sally McCleary, C, 3-18-1813, by William Lockhart.
                  Joseph Peate to Elenor Galaspy, C, 2-2-1814, by Absalom Little.
                  Thomas Tunstall to Patience Williams, C, 3-8-1814, by same.
                  Benjamin Thompson to Nancy McClintick, L, 4-4-1814, by John Prather.
                  James Davis to Elizabeth Evans, C, 1-15-1814, by David Fanisin.
                  James McFall to Mary Money [?], C, 2-4-1814, by same.
                  James Warnock to Nancy Garner, L, 4-13-1814.
                  John Giles to Elizabeth Gentry, C, 3-28-1814, by John Prather.
                  James Pearson to Margarett Trueblood, L, 4-19-1814.
                  Thiron Strong to Phebe Warring, C, 3-26-1814, by Richard Aston.
                  Joseph Turner to Polly Weathers, C, 3-11-1814, by same.
                  Simon Irwin to Mary Hagerman, L, 4-20-1814.
                  William Whelchel to Keziah Whelchel, L, 5-12-1814.
                  James Humphreys to Sarah Bealy, C, 5-8-1814, by Samuel Patterson.
                  Charles Morgan to Mary Daniel, L, 5-28-1814.
                  Richard Seadburn [?] to Catherine Gilmore, L, 6-1-1814, by John Prather.
                  William Morrison to Sarah McClintick, [date illegible], by same.
                  Benjamin McIntire to Hannah Cochran (widow), L, 6-3-1814.
                  Henry Aldridge to Anny Boyles, L, 6-23-1814, by David Fanisin.
                  Charles Springer to Mary Hobson, L, 7-2-1814, by John H. Thompson.
                  Archibald Cosby to Maria Eacy [?], C, 6-28-1814, by Samuel Patterson.
                  Thomas Davis to Elizabeth Trueblood, C, 3-20-1814, by Richard Aston.
                  Michael Miner to Amy Morrison, C, 7-28-1814, by David Fanisin.
                  James Brown to Nancy McKinley, L, 7-30-1814.
                  Findley R. Raymond to Sidnah Williams, L, 8-5-1814.
                  George C. Brightman to Nancy Moore, L, 8-10-1814. Married August 11 by James McCoy.
                  Moses Holman to Rebecca Patrick, L, 8-23-1814, by John Prather.
                  William Crawford to Mary Jones (widow), L, 8-26-1814, by Charles Johnston.
                  James Kelley to Mary Holesclaw, C, 4-29-1814, by Rezin Redman.
                  William Aston to Mary Phipps, C, 7-7-1814, by same.
                  Evan Arnold to Nancy Carson, L, 9-1-1814.
                  Burwell C. Russell to Elizabeth Senor, C, 8-5-1814, by Charles Johnston.
                  William Carr to Catherine Malott (widow), L, 10-8-1814, by James Scott.
                  William Williams to Nancy Williams, L, 10-26-1814.
                  Alexander C. Craig to Elizabeth Lucas, L, 10-27-1814, by James Scott.
                  John Hamilton to Nancy Abett, L, 10-31-1814.
                  John Farris to Rebecca Drummond (widow), L, 11-9-1814, by James Scott.
                  
                  Calvin Spencer to Betsey Robison, L, 11-9-1814.
                  Charles Tipton to Hannah Roberts, C, 9-29-1814, by Samuel Patterson.
                  Martin Gentry to Nancy Scott, C, 10-29-1814, by John Prather.
                  David Huckleberry to Sally Heath, C, 10-16-1814, by James Davis.
                  William Hartley to Sophia McDonald, C, 7-25-1814, by same.
                  Lewis Standiford to Jane Hall, C, 9-8-1814, by Willis W. Goodwin.
                  William Smith to Catherine Hoke, C, 10-2-1814, by Richard Aston.
                  John Hamilton to Nancy Abbett, C, 11-2-1814, by William Binkley.
                  Samuel Harrod to Mary [illegible] Weir, L, 12-19-1814, by John H. Thompson.
                  Gasper Lutz to Catherine Calfhead, L, 12-[date illegible], by same.
                  David Henthorn to Elizabeth Ramsey, L, 1-17-1815, by James Scott.
                  Ely Casteel to Ellenor Barclay [?], C, 1-6-1815, by Samuel Patterson.
                  James Cary to Catherine Deitz, L, 1-26-1815.
                  Jesse C. Roll to Hannah Demar (people of color), L, 2-4-1815.
                  Jonathan Emmons to Elizabeth Bell, L, 2-13-1815, by David Fanisin.
                  Abraham Henthorn to Anna Watson, L, 2-18-1815, by Joseph Bower.
                  Calvin Spencer to Betsey Robinson, C, 11-10-1814, by Charles Johnston.
                  John Carr to Elizabeth Carr, C, 12-4-1814, by John H. Thompson.
                  Thomas McKinley to Sarah Brown, L, 3-4-1815.
                  David Copple to Levina Huckleberry, C, 12-1-1813, by Joseph Bower.
                  Thomas Dickey to Unis Starks, C, 8-18-1814, by same.
                  Alexander Dunn to Polly Wright, C, 9-1-1814, by same.
                  Esrom Hutchings to Polly Fifer, L, 3-15-1815, by James Scott.
                  James Gurber [Garber?] to Nancy Conner, L, 3-22-1815, by Willis W. Goodwin.
                  John Jenison to Kitty Hardin, C, 3-14-1815, by same.
                  John Wighan to Sarah Petty, C, 3-14-1815, by same.
                  James Hilton to Ary Prather, L, 3-30-1815, by John Prather.
                  John Chancy to Sarah Goldsberry, L, 4-1-1815.
                  Nathaniel Scribner to Elizabeth Edmond, L, 4-30-1815, by Andrew Beeman.
                  Syrenus Emmons to Sarah McCutcheon, L, 5-1-1815, by David Fanisin.
                  Gideon N. Thomas to Sally Burge [Barge?], C, 4-23-1815, by George Newland.
                  Absalom Littell to Sally Wells, C, 12-28-1814, by James McCoy.
                  Hugh T. Brightman to Rachel Jackson, C, 4-16-1815, by same.
                  George Hawn to Elizabeth Hawn, L, 5-25-1815, by John Prather.
                  Charles McCalley to Hannah Wattles, L, 5-30-1815.
                  James Robinson to Elizabeth Robinett, C, 5-21-1815, by Charles Johnson.
                  Jesse Davis to Sarah Coons, C, 5-21-1815, by same.
                  Benjamin Way to Mary O'Quenn, C, 6-10-1815, by Willis W. Goodwin.
                  James Twaddle to Nancy Summers, L, 7-14-1816.
                  William May to Jule Ann McCutching, L, 7-19-1815, by David Fanisin.
                  William Scott to Hester Summers, L, 7-20-1815, by George Ross.
                  Fielding Smithe to Retty Utteback, C, 4-18-1815, by Samuel Patterson.
                  Jeremiah Bashear [?] to Margaret Trout, C, 4-28-1815, by Richard Aston.
               
                
            [To be continued]
         
         
         
            Query 127
            I should like very much to know more about the antecedents of William Polke's wife Sally
                    Cooper Polke who was born in 
                        Loudoun County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , and married in 1798 in 
                        Kentucky
                     to William Polke.
            Mrs Fanny Scott Rumely
            2 East 86th Street
            
               
                        New York
                     28, 
                        New York
                    
            
         
         
            List of Contributors
            Natalia M. Belting is an associate in the department of history at the University of
                            
                  Illinois, Urbana, Illinois
               .
            Francis P. Weisenburger is a member of the history department at 
                        Ohio
                     State University, 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , and vice-chairman of the 
                        Ohio
                     War History Commisison.
            Jay Monaghan is editor in the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, 
                  Springfield,
                            Illinois
               .
            Kenneth R. Shaffer is assistant to the director of libraries at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            James A. Corbett is an associate professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,
                    Indiana.
            Howard H. Peckham is the director of the Indiana Historical Bureau and secretary of the Indiana
                    Historical Society.
            Mary M. Crawford is an assistant professor of economics in the School of Business, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Will D. Gilliam, Jr., is an assistant professor of history at the Indiana University Extension
                    Center, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana.
            Powell Moore is an assistant professor of history at the Calumet Extension Center of Indiana
                    University, 
                        East Chicago
                    , Indiana.
            Dorothy Riker is research assistant at the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Special Offer of Back Numbers Of The Indiana Magazine Of History for Libraries,
                    School Libraries, and Personal Files.
            Libraries and persons who are now regular subscribers or who will become regular subscribers are
                    offered the opportunity of securing back numbers of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History at a low price. The earlier numbers of the Magazine are too rare to
                    be included in this offer, but numerous copies of many back issues which contain useful and valuable
                    articles and documentary material that should be included in every library in Indiana and in many
                    outside the state, and which may be desired by individual subscribers are now made available at a
                    greatly reduced price.
            Beginning with Volume XXIII (1927), the supply of existing numbers with the exception of three
                    issues, is sufficient that these numbers will be offered to our subscribers at twenty-five cents per
                    copy or one dollar per volume. The regular price has been fifty cents per copy or two dollars per
                    volume, and this price will be maintained where the sale is to nonsubscribers. The price of earlier
                    issues will remain at a dollar and a dollar and a half per copy or four dollars and six dollars per
                    volume, depending upon the scarcity of the individual number or volume.
            The editor reserves the right to withdraw this special price at any time. He also reserves the right
                    to withdraw it in respect to any issue when the surplus stock of that issue is exhausted.
            Useful articles are to be found in these issues of the Magazine. The following are
                    some of the important subjects:
            
               
                  Abraham Lincoln
                  
                     
                                Michigan
                             Road
               
               
                  The Owens Family
                  Foreigners and their Influence
               
               
                  James H. Lane
                  Education
               
               
                  Amos Lane
                  The Methodist Church
               
               
                  Albert J. Beveridge
                  The Presbyterian Church
               
               
                  Daniel W. Vorhees
                  The Catholic Church
               
               
                  Jonathan Jennings
                  The Quakers
               
               
                  Edward Eggleston
                  The Australian Ballot
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
               
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
                  The Democratic Party
               
               
                  
                            
                                Vevay
                            
                        
                  The Republican Party
               
               
                  The Indians
                   
               
            
            Some of the writers whose work is included in these issues of the Magazine are:
            
               
                  Christopher B. Coleman
                  William O. Lynch
               
               
                  George S. Cottman
                  Thomas C. McAvoy
               
               
                  Louis B. Ewbank
                  Charles Roll
               
               
                  James Alton James
                  Wendell H. Stephenson
               
               
                  Robert LaFollette
                  Florence G. Watts
               
               
                  Julie LeClerc Knox
                  James A. Woodburn
               
            
            So many items on Abraham Lincoln have appeared in the Magazine that a special list
                    of them has been prepared and will be mailed to individuals interested in purchasing issues in which
                    these items appear.
            It is not now possible to supply a complete file of the Magazine but every effort
                    will be made to supply missing numbers for anyone trying to complete a file.
            Please address inquiries to the Editor, Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Supply Nearly Exhausted
            We are sorry to report that our supply of back numbers of volumes one and three are exhausted, except
                    for one copy of the first issue. The suply of one or more issues in volumes two, seven, eight, ten,
                    seventeen, eighteen, and twenty-two is either sold or nearly sold. Persons interested in completing
                    a file should not delay in making their wants known. Similarly, persons interested in disposing of
                    back numbers are urged to send information about their holdings.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
