
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 14, Issue 4, pages 287-391. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:14+issue:4+year:1918&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            General Joseph Bartholomew
            By GEORGE PENCE
            
            A FOREWORD
            
            It was in the summer of 1894, while on a visit with my brother, Prof. William D. Pence, to our
                    brother, the Rev. Edward H. Pence, D.D. (then the minister in charge of the First Presbyterian
                    church at 
                  Janesville, Wisconsin
               ), that it was proposed that we make the trip to
                            
                  Lodi, Wisconsin
               , a town some sixty miles to the northwest, to visit James
                    Bartholomew. James Bartholomew, with whom the writer had been in a desultory correspondence for some
                    time, was a son of General Joseph Bartholomew, one of Indiana's pioneers and in whose honor
                    our county was named.
            We desired to procure additional information concerning the noted man of whom so little had been
                    published, and to make sure of our intent, Edward sent a telegram to the Presbyterian minister at 
                        Lodi
                    , the Rev. James M. Campbell, D.D., inquiring whether or not James Bartholomew was still
                    living there. The reply only increased our eagerness when we read: 
                        James Bartholomew living here, quite aged and feeble and totally blind.
                    
                
            Dining enroute at 
                        Madison
                    , the beautiful capital of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , we took a Northwestern train for Lodi, some twenty miles to the north, where we
                    arrived at one p.m.
            Upon inquiring we found that Mr. James Bartholomew lived on a large and fertile farm about one mile
                    north of the  town, and further that the last train south would
                    be due in two hours. Promptly we procured a conveyance and within twenty minutes had reached the
                    vine-clad cottage of Mr. Bartholomew, which stood in the center of a large tract of land owned by
                    him.
            Our knock at the door was answered by a matronly lady who, when we had given our names and had asked
                    if we could see Mr. Bartholomew, asked us to await her announcement to him, as he was then lying,
                    resting on his couch.
            In a short time we were ushered into their pleasant sunny reception room. Mr. Bartholomew was
                    standing in the middle of the room with his outstretched hands to bid us welcome; and after I had
                    told him who we were, and introduced my brothers, he said, "Gentlemen, I feel that I am
                    honored" and "I am glad to see you," and turning his face to the writer,
                    added, "I have been wanting to see you for years."
            The latter expression appealed to us, particularly, as he was totally blind, and as we afterwards
                    learned he had been thus for over forty years, and that it had been caused from the
                    "sore-eyes" contracted while a schoolboy—a malady then quite prevalent.
                    His dignity, learning and courteous manner, together with his garb and the choker with which his
                    throat was dressed, struck us as the old-time gentleman of the fifties.
            We mentioned the object of our visit to be to procure some additional facts concerning his
                    illustrious father and made inquiry why there had not been more published concerning him, when he
                    told us the reason for this was the native modesty of the father; that he seldom made mention of his
                    acts, and that it required some effort to persuade him to relate any of his adventures, even to his
                    children.
            He informed us that General John S. Simonson, late of 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, had prepared a sketch at one time of the father, but for some reason or
                    another it had never been published.
            That Mr. James Bartholomew was proud of his father was without question to us, as this feature
                    cropped out more than once in replying to our numerous inquiries.
            Thus from facts secured from Gen. Joseph Bartholomew's own son, at an age when early
                    recallments are vividly awakened,  as well as from other
                    authentic sources, we propose to essay a readable tribute to a great man—one of the most
                    noted of his time, of the unboastful sort, given more to the applied art of doing than to the fine
                    art of telling about it afterward.
            His days fell in the territorial times of the great State of Indiana, rough days, tough days and
                    men-making days—the days of which William Henry Harrison, John Gibson, John Tipton and
                    Joseph Bartholomew were products.
            The times found the man; the man shaped the times. It is ours to save to memory the fame and story
                    that we and posterity may go to school to them.
            GENERAL JOSEPH BARTHOLOMEW
            
            Joseph Bartholomew was born in the State of 
                        New Jersey
                    , March 15, 1766. At the age of five the family removed to the western frontier of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , settling at Laurel Hill, where they were the neighbors of General
                    Arthur St. Clair, of Revolutionary War fame, and whom President Washington appointed as the first
                    governor of the Territory Northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Bartholomew's youthful days along the frontier were full of adventure and already at the age
                    of ten years he had become expert with the rifle. When but eighteen he was rated as an
                    "Indian fighter" and took an active part in the defense against marauding bands of
                    Indians.
            At this place, Laurel Hill, his father died, and he remained at home with his
                    mother until 1788, when he was married to Christiana Peckinpaugh, and the newly married couple
                    migrated to the then village of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , locating some four miles east of the
                    town.
            On August 3, 1795, at 
                  Greenville, Ohio
               , Mad Anthony Wayne concluded his celebrated
                    treaty with the belligerent Wyandots, Delawares, Shawnees and other tribes, and 
                        Bartholomew
                    , either as a volunteer or as an interested spectator, was present.
            The result of this treaty was the cessation of general hostilities for a time by the red men against
                    the whites, and was the first permanent cession of lands which, within a few  years, became a portion of Indiana. Bartholomew was engaged in the
                    survey of the boundary lines covered in this treaty and later helped the government surveyors in
                    running the subdivision lines of the First Principal Meridian. While he lacked the early education
                    he was the growing man and kept apace with the surroundings, in time becoming a practical surveyor
                    and in later days followed land surveying, and helped many of the incoming new settlers in locating
                    their land warrants.
            In 1798 he removed with his family to Indiana territory, settling in 
                        Clark
                    's 
                        Grant
                     near the town of 
                        Charlestown
                     and it was here in 1809 that his wife died. The fruits of this marriage were ten
                    children: viz: Joseph, Jr., who is buried in 
                        Clark County
                    ; Sarah, married Hugh Espy; John; Catherine, married a McNaught; Mary, married Patrick
                    Hopkins; Amelia, married Patrick Hopkins, relict of Mary, deceased; Martha, married Gamaliel Vail;
                    Christiana, married Isaac Epler; Marston Clark and Albert. There were no descendants or relatives,
                    in 1894, of General Bartholomew by this marriage residing in Indiana, save a few through the
                    daughter, Sarah Espy.
            In the spring of 1811 General Bartholomew was married to a Miss McNaught, and it was about this time
                    that by reason of his marked traits for leadership and under the threatened antagonism of the
                    Indians of Indiana territory, that he was selected by Governor William Henry Harrison as lieutenant
                    colonel of the regiment of militia.1 Within a very few 
                  
                            
                        
                           
                              
                                 1 To His Excellency William Henry
                                            Harrison, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Indiana Territory:
                              SIR: The following gentlemen is recommended to fill the
                                            vacancies in the Militia of 
                                                Clark County
                                            , ss: William Patrick, John McCoy, William Montgomery and James
                                            Bigger, Captains. John Jenkins, John Herrod, Jenry Joiles and John Chun,
                                            Lieutenants. Thomas Jacobs, Joseph Carr, Joseph Bowers and Joseph
                                            Stillinell, Ensigns. Col. Clark and William Gwathmey will attend to the
                                            vacancy occasioned by the death of Capt. Thompson. I have the honor to be
                                            very respectfully
                              Sir your Humble Servant
                              JOSEPH BARTHOLOMEW,
                                            Commanding Clark Milita.
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              7th March. 1811. (Address) 
                                                Jeffersonville
                                            . March 10.
                              His EXCELLENCY WILLIAM HENET HARRISON,
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            .
                              SIR: Inclos'd you will find a general Return of
                                            the Several detachments of the Militia from the Second, Fifth and Sixth
                                            Regiments of Indiana Militia. I 
                           
                        
                     
                        
               
                     months, on September 12, 1811, we find his regiment with
                    marching orders issued by the governor to rendezvous at 
                        Vincennes
                    , this campaign including the memorable battle with the Indians at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     on Thursday morning, November 7, 1811.
            On September 14 we find Colonel Bartholomew with one hundred and twenty of the 
                        Clark County
                     militia on the march and camped at the noted Half-Moon springs on the old French Lick
                    road, four miles southeast of Paoli. On Wednesday, November 18, the troopers reached the territorial
                    capital, 
                        Vincennes
                    , reinforced enroute by the companies of Capt. Spier Spencer and that of Capt. Berry.
                    Governor Harrison mustered the troops consisting of the 
                        United States
                     regulars under Captain Boyd, the dragoons and the militia. The governor, as commanding
                    general, issued his general orders appointing Major Joe H. Davis in command of the dragoons, and
                    Colonel Bartholomew in command of the foot soldiers. On September 26 the American army, consisting
                    of 910 men, is on the march and reaches old 
                        Terre Haute
                     on October 2, where it is halted to build a fort, named for the governor, 
                        Fort Harrison
                    . The fort was completed on October 28 and is garrisoned with a force when the main
                    army, under orders, marched northeasterly toward Prophetstown, the town of Tecumtha and his
                    half-blinded brother, the Prophet, Ells-kwa-ta-wa.
            This vicinity was reached on Wednesday afternoon, November 6, 1811, and at a small prairie Colonel
                    Bartholomew's foot soldiers placed their knapsacks in the wagons, were formed in line of
                    battle and thus marched toward the Indians' 
                  
                            
                        
                           
                              am sorry these are not more complete. The uncertainty whether we will March
                                            or not is very much in the way of having the companies complet in every
                                            respect. If we get a few days notice before we march I have no doubt but we
                                            shall appear in good order so far as Respects the companies from my
                                            Regiment. The following gentlemen were elected as Officers in the Militia of
                                            the Second Regiment of Indiana Militia; viz, William Kelly, Captain; Philip
                                            Boyer, Lieutenant and Daniel Stark, Ensign in a new Company form'd
                                            in the upper part of the County—Tobias Miller, Captain in the 
                                                Jeffersonville
                                             Company. Please to commission the above gentlemen. The light
                                            company mentioned in my last is not completed.
                              I have the Honor to be very Respectfully,
                              Sir, your Humble Servant—
                              JOSEPH BARTHOLOMEW,
                                            Lieut. Col. Second R. I. M.
                                  August 11, 1811.
                           
                        
                     
                        
               
                     town for over two miles and before halting surrounded the town.
            The Indians met General Harrison and made a plea for peace, promising to give satisfaction the next
                    morning. There was considerable trouble in this palaver with the Indians, as the Frenchman whom
                    General Harrison had taken with him to act as interpreter, and who knew each of the chiefs
                    personally refusing to attend the powow, being in fear of them, for as he termed it, that he
                    "would be roasted."
            That evening after the powow with the prophet—his brother Tecumtha was then on a
                    missionary trip in the south to enlist the southern tribes into his confederacy, the American army
                    selected a site for camp about one mile north of the Indians' town. This was on an elevated
                    tract of woodland between Burnetts creek on the west and a prairie on its east, General Harrison
                    selecting Colonel Bartholomew as officer of the day, and on his suggestion, based upon his knowledge
                    of the Indian, the troops slept on their arms.
            On Thursday morning, November 7, 1811, at four o'clock, Colonel Bartholomew is going the
                    round of the sentries, a drizzling rain is falling and the darkness of the autumn morning is
                    suddenly lightened by the glare of the fire from the rifles of the treacherous Indians who a few
                    hours before had promised to give satisfaction at their peace powow. The fire from the Indian guns
                    made it as light as day. Colonel Bartholomew assumed at once the command of the foot soldiers, but
                    riding a very nervous horse found it difficult to handle him, and was greatly in fear of being
                    thrown. His troops were armed with squirrel rifles, and as the Indians at the first had the
                    advantage, it was here that through his tact he became master of the moment when he requested
                    General Harrison to give him a company of regulars whose guns were equipped with bayonets. General
                    Harrison at once gave orders for one of Captain Boyd's companies to follow Colonel
                    Bartholomew, when a bayonet charge was made by these hardened regulars and the Indians were routed.
                    This closed the short and decisive battle in favor of the American army, but in this charge, Colonel
                    Bartholomew received an Indian's bullet through his right forearm, breaking both bones.
            
            It was fully two hours before his wound was dressed and the bones of his arm were set, he sitting on
                    a stump in the camp awaiting his turn, with the other wounded, for the surgeon, Dr. Andrew P. Hay,
                    his neighbor at 
                        Charlestown
                    , to give him the needed attention and professional service.
            Ensign John Tipton in his memorable account of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign, reports the American loss at 179 killed and wounded, 37 of his own company,
                    including its captain and two lieutenants. John Tipton went home as captain of his company. Truly,
                    it was a day of sacrifice when the lives of Owen, Spencer, Joe Davis, Warrick, and Judge White went
                    out and an hundred others, but the red man was mastered in Indiana.
            The victorious army, after burying the illustrious dead, returned with wounded to 
                        Vincennes
                    , reaching there November 24. When the militia was mustered out, Colonel
                    Bartholomew's wound gave him much trouble and he suffered throughout his entire after life
                    from it.
            He now returned to his farm, and it is at the next term of the territorial legislature that his
                    successful charge and gallant fight at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     is mentioned, and made a matter of record by a vote of thanks for his valiant services
                    in. the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign.
            During the summer and fall of 1812 the western Indians became more fretful and a deplorable condition
                    existed amongst the white settlers along the lower Driftwood and
                        Muscatatuck rivers in southern Indiana, and on September 3, 1812, the
                    deplorable massacre by the savages occurred at the Pigeon Roost settlement, some forty miles south
                    of 
                        Columbus
                    . In this twenty-four persons, mostly women and children, were slain by a straggling
                    band of Shawnee warriors.
            At this date General Bartholomew, whose home was less than twenty miles from the scene of the
                    massacre, was away from his home, but a large force was soon collected at Charles-town which pursued
                    the retreating Shawnees. This force was under the command of Captain John McCoy, of the 
                        Clark County
                     cavalry. In an interview with the late F. C. Nugent, of Jonesville, Indiana, he
                    mentioned that his father was a member of the company which followed the savages to the  banks of the Muscatatuck and where the Indians were soon located, but
                    by the foolishness or cowardice of the captain, orders were given to sound the bugle, which was done
                    and the murderous Indians escaped by swimming the river. It was the general expression of regret
                    among the men that General Bartholomew was not in command, as he would have shown better judgment
                    and courage and the savages possibly would have been punished. The elder Nugent never forgave his
                    captain, and while of the same politics, ever refused to vote for him and denounced him to the day
                    of his death.
            In June, 1813, General Bartholomew, with one hundred and thirty-seven men, moved from 
                        Vallonia
                    , in 
                        Jackson county
                    , toward the 
                        Delaware
                     Indian towns on the west fork of White river, some twenty miles
                    above the present site of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with the intention to surprise and punish the Indians for some of their outbreaks and
                    depredations. Lieutenant Colonel John Tipton and Major David Owen were his aides. The line of march
                    was along the east side of Driftwood river through 
                        Bartholomew county
                     along the present line of the 
                        Brownstown
                     State road. Their trail was still visible seven or eight years later when the county
                    was organized, settled and named for 
                        Bartholomew
                    , and its nearest point to 
                        Columbus
                     is immediately west of our Garland Brook cemetery", east of the city.
            This expedition was of but short duration and in a skirmish with the Indians but one of them was
                    killed and a member of the 
                        Jackson county
                     militia was wounded. The line of march on the homeward trip of the troops was along the
                    opposite side of Driftwood on the present line of the Mauck's Ferry State road, which
                    passed through the Dwight farm, two miles west of the city.
            At the site of 
                        Lowell
                     bridge, four miles northwest of 
                        Columbus
                     (this locality was geographically known in 1813 as the "Upper Rapids of
                    Driftwood"), a bark canoe was made and the wounded Jacksonian was floated down Driftwood to
                    his home at 
                        Vallonia
                    . The date of this was June 20, 1813, as mentioned by General Tipton in one of the
                    invaluable journals kept by him.
            The Delawares still remaining peeved and unruly, the following 
                    month, July, 1813, Colonel William Russell, in command at Fort Harrison, at old 
                        Terre Haute
                    , is ordered out with the regulars and the militia on a second expedition, northward on
                    the same "
                        Bartholomew
                     Trail," through 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , to disperse and punish the still hostile Delawares.
            His force consisted of five hundred and seventy-three men, volunteers, militia and regulars, and
                    among the latter Lieutenant Zachary Taylor, who was on the march through this neighborhood and who,
                    thirty-five years later, was elected President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            One of the sons of General Bartholomew, who was a member of one of the companies of 
                        Clark County
                     militia ordered out, was sick and his father, the general, requested to act as his
                    substitute.
            This was agreeable to Colonel Russell and he appointed General Bartholomew as his aide. Upon the
                    march through this county the commanding officer was suddenly taken violently ill, when he at once
                    called General Bartholomew to his tent and said to him, "General Bartholomew, I put my
                    force under your command until I am better, and I give you full responsibility."
            The Delawares were overawed by this large force of troops and ended their further warlike
                    demonstrations in central Indiana.
            Colonel Russell, in his report of the expedition to Governor Harrison, said, "Colonel
                    Bartholomew acted as my aide-decamp. This veteran has been so well tried in this kind of warfare
                    that any encomiums from me would be useless."
            This was the last Indian expedition of the doughty 
                        Bartholomew
                    , and he now quiets down again upon his farm in 
                        Clark County
                     which was located some two miles out from 
                        Charlestown
                     on the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     State road.
            One of the questions asked James Bartholomew was how his father regarded the treatment of the whites
                    toward the Indians in the encroachment upon their lands.
            His reply was: "Father thought the Indians had been harshly treated by the whites,"
                    and then added with apparent pride, "But he killed as many of them as any other
                    man."  James Bartholomew also mentioned that his
                    father, who had met Tecumtha, regarded this Indian chief as the greatest diplomat he ever knew.
            General Bartholomew erected the first brick farm house in 
                        Clark County
                    , and according to the statement of Mr. Nugent, by reason of his very happy and jovial
                    disposition and his love for young people, his home was the seat of constant gayety and hospitality.
                    The general was an accomplished dancer and he took as much delight in that amusement as did the
                    younger folks. His personal associations were of the highest and his social standing was the same.
            In December, 1817, we find him as one of the essential eleven in the constitutional organization of
                    the Grand Lodge of the Masons in the newly erected State of Indiana, which met at Corydon, the then
                    State capital, his membership being at Blazing Star Lodge, No. 36, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            This preliminary meeting adjourned to meet the next month at 
                        Madison
                    . He is not mentioned as being present, yet later records show that he acted as Grand
                    Treasurer and Grand Senior Warden pro tem.
            
            In 1819 he was elected on the Whig ticket as a member from 
                        Clark County
                    , in the State legislature, and in 1820 was one of the presidential electors of the
                    State, which cast its vote for James Monroe. While a member of the Lower House, on January 11, 1820,
                    a bill was passed to appoint commissioners to select a site for the permanent capital of the State,
                    the federal government having donated four sections of its land for such purpose. In this act
                    General Bartholomew was named as one of the ten commissioners.
            The others named were Gen. John Tipton, George Hunt, John Conner, John Gilliland, Stephen Ludlow,
                    Jesse B. Durham, Frederick Rapp, William Prince and Thomas Emerson. To John Tipton, the methodical
                    man, we are again indebted for a written account of the trip northward through this portion of the
                    trail, which later, in 1823, was surveyed by Tipton under the act creating a State road forty-nine
                    feet in width from Mauck's Ferry on the Ohio river, northward through
                    Corydon, 
                        Salem
                    , Brownstown, to the newly made capital, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 
                        Tipton
                     relates that on May 17, 1820, he, with  Conner and
                    Governor Jennings, with Tipton's black boy, Bill, met General Bartholomew at Colonel Jesse
                    B. Durham's at 
                        Vallonia
                    , and with General John Carr and Captain Dueson, of 
                        Charlestown
                    , they made the trip together, northward, along the trail mentioned above. The
                    commissioners viewed several proposed sites, but before the end were divided only between the site
                    at Waverly Bluffs, now in 
                        Morgan county
                    , and one which was selected. General Bartholomew and four others, including 
                        Tipton
                    , voted for the site which was selected, and which the following year was given the name
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            General Bartholomew used the spade to make the mound showing the location of the middle corner of the
                    four donated sections, and, as James Bartholomew informed us, often claimed "to have dug
                    the first dirt for the State capital."
            This same year, 1820, he was elected to the State Senate from 
                        Clark County
                    , and at the 1820–21 session of the legislature a bill was introduced to
                    erect a new county out of 
                        Jackson
                     and 
                        Delaware counties
                    . This was the first proposal to form a county from the "New
                    Purchase," as the territory purchased at the Saint Mary's treaty was called. This
                    territory, which embraces nearly the whole of central Indiana, had by an act of the legislature been
                    divided into two counties, making the Second Principal meridian as the dividing line. The western
                    portion was called 
                        Wabash
                     and the eastern 
                        Delaware county
                    . In the former term of the legislature it was enacted that the permanent north line of 
                        Jackson county
                    , when the New Purchase was opened for settlement, should be the line dividing townships
                    7 and 8 north. This line is an east and west line one and one-half miles south of Axalia in 
                        Bartholomew county
                    . As the proposed new county would take of a three mile strip from 
                        Jackson county
                    , there was developed a strong fight against the bill by the 
                        Jackson county
                     representative, General Carr. 
                        Tipton
                    , a member from 
                        Harrison County
                    , was leading the fight for the lines of the new county as proposed and in the end won
                    out. It was on 
                        Tipton
                    's motion that the newly erected county was called for his old commander and
                    leader in all of the campaigns in which they had both engaged, seeking the vanquishment of the red
                    man in Indiana, General Bartholomew. It was near the last  days
                    of the term, January 21, 1821, that the bill had passed both the House and the Senate and the act
                    was at once signed by Governor Jonathan Jennings, on that date.
            Generals Tipton and Bartholomew were of opposing political parties—Tipton being a
                    Democrat, but this did not induce a lack of respect for each other.
            After Bartholomew's services ended in the State legislature, in which he had served with
                    conspicuous ability, in 1825, he returned to his 
                        Clark County
                     farm, which then consisted of two hundred and thirty acres of excellent farming land.
                    In this year General Bartholomew was appointed a member of the board of commissioners to make deeds
                    of the lands in 
                        Clark
                    's 
                        Grant
                     and at a meeting of the board, August 20, 1825, he was made its chairman. The records
                    show but one other meeting of the board, October 15, 1825, which he attended. Dr. Andrew P. Hay was
                    then also a member of this board, which held its meetings at 
                        Charlestown
                    . This was the last public service of General Bartholomew mentioned, and according to
                    Mr. Nugent, he gave his full time to his farm.
            One of Mr. Nugent's stories of General Bartholomew concerned the finishing of the large
                    brick house which the general erected on his farm. The painter had taken great pains in graining the
                    front door, and having completed a very handsome job of it, the owner came up to enter it, and not
                    aware that the paint was fresh, put his hand on it to push it open, leaving an imprint of his hand
                    very markedly. The painter was greatly put out about it, and grumbled at having to do his work over,
                    but the general good-naturedly told him that it made no difference and to let it alone as it was,
                    and so it remained with the mark of his hand plainly visible for nearly forty years.
            It was while living here that Mrs. Bartholomew, the second wife of the general, died from the result
                    of an accident. She was quite fleshy and was one day riding horseback, on the 
                        Charlestown
                     and Springville road, when a sudden clap of thunder frightened her horse and throwing
                    her, broke a leg. This injury was the cause of her death within a very few days.
            The fruits of the second marriage were five children, viz: George McN.; Nancy,
                    married James Bradley in McLean  county, 
                        Illinois
                    ; Angela, widow of William Merriam, living, 1894, in one of the Dakotas; James Currie,
                    our host—named for one of the early sheriffs of 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana; and William Milton, then living at 
                  Pingree, North Dakota
               .
            In 1830, by reason of being one of the bondsmen for Dr. Andrew P. Hay, who had been appointed by
                    President Jackson, receiver of public monies at the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     land office, and being called upon by the federal government for a settlement, a
                    shortage was found. General Bartholomew, whose share of the defalcation amounted to some
                    $10,000, was compelled to sell his farm to make good for his neighbor. It was Doctor Hay
                    who had dressed the general's fractured arm at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and they had been personal friends for many years.
            General Bartholomew sold his farm at eighteen dollars per acre which, as Mr. Nugent mentioned, was
                    considered a very high price at the time, and taking his entire family, in 1831, removed to 
                        McLean
                     county, 
                        Illinois
                    , and thus it was that Indiana lost the citizenship of one of her most noted men and one
                    of her foremost history-makers.
            He purchased six hundred acres of government land in one body and soon settled down again to farming
                    and improving his land. He was also engaged at his self-taught profession of land surveying. He
                    founded a town on his land and called it Clarkesville, in honor of his old-time friend, Marston G.
                    Clarke. This town is not now even on the map, but was located but a few miles from 
                        Lexington
                     in the "Sangamon Country."
            The 
                        United States
                     government had granted General Bartholomew a pension, for wounds and disabilities
                    received during the 1812 war, of twenty-three dollars per month. This he drew each year at 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana, and it was his custom to make this annual trip by horseback, the usual route
                    taken by him being via
                    
                  Terre Haute, Spencer,
                            Bloomington
                and 
                        Salem
                    . It was recalled by the son that one of these trips was made by the State capital, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which site he had assisted to select, and it was thought that this trip included the
                    trail through 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , which had been  named for him—and of
                    which the general and his family, as the son told us, were justly proud.
            Another story mentioned by Mr. Nugent—and also related by the late David Deitz, the first
                    treasurer of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , who had formerly been a neighbor in 
                        Clark County
                    , was of the swarthy complexion of General Bartholomew, who was very dark-skinned.
            When his neighbors heard that the new county being erected in the "New Purchase"
                    was named for their noted neighbor, some jocular friend suggested that "the soil must be
                    very black up there to suggest such a name."
            In 1840, when General Harrison was nominated by the Whigs as their candidate for President, General
                    Bartholomew, who had always been strong anti-
                        Jackson
                     and a staunch Whig, promptly rallied to his old friend and companion-in-arms.
            He regarded General Harrison, as the son told us, as being the best off-hand speaker he had ever
                    heard, and that General Harrison, when on the march, always encouraged his men and frequently made
                    speeches to them to that end.
            The Whig's battle-cry in 1840 was "
                        Tippecanoe
                    " and our old hero, who had taken such an active part in that battle along with
                    the candidate for President, was soon identified in the political campaign. He saddled his horse and
                    on its back traveled through 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana and in 
                        Kentucky
                     for his candidate. General Bartholomew was in Indiana at the time of the monster Whig
                    meeting, which was held at the "Battle Ground" and where he presided. It was
                    claimed that seventy-five thousand people were present at this, said-to-be, the largest political
                    meeting ever held in Indiana. A similar, huge meeting was held by the Whigs of 
                        Illinois
                     during the campaign, at 
                        Springfield
                    , where General Bartholomew was again selected to preside.
            The old hero is now, in 1840, seventy-four years of age and the prolonged horseback exercise during
                    the campaign had been too severe for him, having aggravated a chronic trouble, the inflammation of
                    the bladder, and returning to his home he became violently ill on election day, November 2, 1840,
                    and died the next morning at one o'clock.
            He was buried at the graveyard at the village founded by  him,
                    Clarkesville, and near his side is the grave of Captain James Bigger, who had commanded a company
                    under General Bartholomew in several campaigns against the Indians.
            It was not until 1895 that a suitable monument was erected at the grave of General Bartholomew, but
                    on each Memorial Day it has ever been marked with garlands of flowers by the members of the G.A.R.,
                    who appreciate and honor the memory of as brave a soldier as ever lived and who helped to carve out
                    two great States of the Middle West, Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    .
            General Bartholomew was not large of stature, but was described as weighing about one hundred and
                    forty pounds, about five feet eight inches in height, his form as straight as an arrow and of a very
                    dark complexion. At the time of his death his hair was white as snow, although as shown in the two
                    oil portraits now in possession of the board of county commissioners of 
                        Bartholomew county
                     the hair is as black as the crow's wing.
            These portraits were painted in 1826, and one of them, the family picture, was in the reception room
                    at the time of our visit. The son told us that it was painted in 
                        Louisville
                     and its old mahogany frame but adds to its ancient appearance. It was at the suggestion
                    of the writer that a loving son, who desired to add honor to the father, should make a gift of the
                    family picture to the authorities of the county which had been named for him.
            It was the last official act in 1895 of the writer, who was retiring from the term of office of
                    county auditor, to record the matter of the gift of James Bartholomew (whose death occurred a few
                    weeks before) of this picture as the "property of the board of county commissioners of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , Indiana, forever."
            The first portrait of General Bartholomew was procured as a gift, through the writer, by the widow of
                    Judge New, the mother of J. Thompson New, of 
                        Clay
                     township, in 1880. This picture was resurrected through the publication in George E.
                    Finney's newspaper at 
                        Columbus
                    , The Columbian, of some correspondence concerning the hunt for a
                    picture of General Bartholomew. This picture, an unfinished one, had been in the possession of the
                    News for over half a century and had  been painted by James New,
                    a young art student, who died in the late twenties. The work was said to have been done at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, and it is unquestionably a replica of the family portrait.
            The writer has the pleasure to own the Masonic apron and sash which General Bartholomew wore. These
                    have been loaned to St. John's Lodge No. 20, F.&A.M., at 
                        Columbus
                    , and having been placed in a frame now hang on her walls. These were presented to the
                    writer at the request of James Bartholomew at his death in 1895.
            General Bartholomew was not a member of any church, but was a constant attendant of the Presbyterian.
                    Mr. Nugent related that he was one of the most moral men he ever knew, and that he could not brook a
                    vulgar or profane word from any one.
            Here was a rare man, of the sort schooled in hardness for hard tasks. The crude environment with
                    which he had to do, so impoverished of all we call necessities, was an incorporate part of the man.
                    That unkempt soil, now so rich in answer to the returning toil, was then possessed by matted
                    grasses, the impenetrable forests; the air was fairly redolent of malaria, a haunting, invisible,
                    malignant legion of harrowing devils, which, peeved at dispossession, beleaguered with fateful
                    vengeance the despoilers of their abode, the virgin soil.
            These hardy sons and daughters of hardy fathers and mothers before them, told us little of their
                    hardships. They little knew the stage they wrought for a civilization so soon to burst almost
                    full-grown, and within less than a century. The mighty steam-boat, monarch and servant of commerce
                    and civilization, made possible this western empire. Hardly a generation had gone, when the
                    locomotive drove the steamer to exile. Now electricity haunts the locomotive with the dread of a new
                    rival. A new conqueror arrives; gasolene threatens to conquer space, time, and the air trembles for
                    its immemorial liberty. But let us not lay our emphasis here.
            We were wondering, however, what our brave old hero of simple, but strenuous days, should say, could
                    that Sangamon county graveyard give him back. Moreover, let us test if these, the complex, be better
                    days after all. Do they iron and  nerve our arms to severer
                    tests of the man and woman? Do the times, do the customs produce a more virile type of four-squared
                    manhood? Do ethics, does religion mean any more to us, with our greater facility, than they meant to
                    this man and to his contemporaries, who floored our stage for us to act upon?
            Not ships, nor armies, nor millions make our land great, but her men. In the high virtues of
                    physical, mental, moral devotion, do we now set to our children the killing pace which our fathers
                    set for us?
            Grave it deeply on the stone which we loyal men of 
                        Bartholomew county
                     carve to our hero, that it was a great man whom we honor; great in virtue, in vision,
                    in self-mastery; a man who held only vice in derision; and dying poor, with meagre acres to bequeath
                    to his own, gave an empire to those whose deepest sin shall be to forget their great benefactor in
                    the greed to exploit his benefactions.
            
               
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, March 15, 1896.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Warrick county
                     Prior to 1818
            By ARVIL S. BARR, A. M., Selvin, Ind.
            For many years prior to the organization of 
                        Warrick county
                    , the southwestern part of Indiana was in the hands of the Indians. On account of their
                    migratory nature it is difficult to say just what Indian tribes inhabited these parts. The Miamis,
                    Wyandots, Delawares, Pottawatomies, Kickapoos, Shawnees, Weas, and the Piankeshaws were the most
                    closely connected with this part of the State. At one time the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians had a village, called 
                        Delaware
                     Old Town, near the present site of Newburg, Indiana.8 In 1801 there
                    was another 
                        Delaware
                     town on the 
                        Ohio
                     opposite 
                  Henderson, Kentucky
               .9 Later there was
                    an Indian town on the head waters of Little Pigeon creek. Some time before 1800 the Piankeshaws had
                    two villages not far from 
                        Jasper
                    , Indiana.10 The last Indian village in 
                        Warrick county
                     was probably that of the Shawnees. This tribe, as late as 1812, was located near the
                    mouth of Cypress creek.11 Though it is said for a number of years that the
                    Indians would occasionally return for a hunt on Pigeon creek.12
            
            Many years prior to the first English settlement west of the Allegheny
                    mountains, the Indians of the northwest found their favorite hunting ground in 
                        Kentucky
                    . In late summer they would cross the Ohio river to take their
                    annual hunt and return again in early winter. After the 
                        Kentucky
                     hunting ground became the home of the white settlers, the region of the Ohio
                        river became the fighting ground of the two peoples and from time to time it was
                    necessary to send out regular expeditions to quiet the Indians.
            Among the early expeditions of this kind was that of Colonel Josiah Harmar, who was sent to make
                    peace with the 
                  
                     8 The St. Clair Papers, II., 26; Readings in Indiana History, 65.
                  
                     9
                            Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, II., 7.
                  
                     10 George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 103.
                  
                     11 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            220.
                  
                     12
                            
                        
                                    Evansville
                                's Men of Mark, 9.
               
                     Indians around 
                        Vincennes
                    .13 He was ordered to move his small army from 
                        Louisville
                    , where he was encamped, to 
                        Vincennes
                    . On account of the great difficulty and danger of traveling the 
                        Vincennes
                     Trace, he decided to go by water. On July 6, 1787, Capt. David Zeigler, with sixty men,
                    in eight boats, two keel boats, one small keel boat, and two canoes, laden with provisions, was
                    dispatched from the Falls14 down the Ohio river.15 The next day Colonel Harmar followed with the rest of the army. On the 10th
                    of July the fleet landed at what was called the "landing and carrying place"16 in what was later 
                        Warrick county
                    . This landing was also called the "rocks" and was about eight miles
                    above the mouth of Green river.17 From this point a trace
                    ran to 
                        Vincennes
                    .18 The fleet was put under the command of Maj. John F. Hamtramck
                    and sent up the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    . On the 11th of July, Colonel Harmar, with the rest of the troops, started by land to 
                        Vincennes
                    . The weather was rather warm and the men had to carry fifteen days' flour on
                    their backs. Colonel Harmar, in describing the country, said: "From the 
                        Ohio
                    , where we set out for the White river, we had a very difficult
                    march, the country being full of thickets and scarce of water."19 After
                    some years of desultory warfare, peace was concluded with the Indians in 1795.20
                    The Ohio river was made the southern boundary line between the two peoples and
                    neither was supposed to trespass on the land of the other. Nevertheless, the settlers in 
                        Kentucky
                     soon made it a practice to cross over the river into the Indiana territory every fall
                    to kill bear, deer and buff aloe, merely for the skins.21 In this manner they so
                    thinned out the game in the southwestern part of the territory 
                  
                     18
                            The St. Clair Papers, II., 22, note.
                  
                     14 The falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             were almost opposite the present site of 
                                Louisville
                            .
                  
                     15
                            The St. Clair Papers, II., 24.
                  
                     16
                            The St. Clair Papers, II., 25, 26.
                  
                     17
                            The St. Clair Papers, II., 26.
                  
                     18 The exact course of this trace is not known. However, Colonel
                            Harmar was familiar with it before making his trip down the 
                                Ohio
                            . It is probable that it left the 
                                Ohio
                             near the site of the present town of Newburg and continued nearly north along
                            Big Pigeon creek hitting White river near the Western boundary of 
                                Pike County
                            . The St. Clair Papers, II., 24, 25, 26, 27.
                  
                     19
                            The St. Clair Papers, II., 27.
                  
                     20 J. P. Dunn, Indiana, 266.
                  
                     21 Moses Dawson, A Historical Narrative of the Civil and
                                Military Services of Major-General William H. Harrison, 8.
               
                     that the Indians began to complain of their injuries and again
                    started their depredations. An interesting story of these early times was told to the father of
                    Colonel Cockrum by Jean La Ture, a pioneer boatsman on the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    : 
                        He (LaTure) said that his father was with Lafayette for a while during the Revolutionary War
                            and afterward settled in 
                                Virginia
                            , where he married a beautiful French woman. He himself had been born in 
                                Virginia
                             and was about ten years old when his father resolved to move to 
                                Kentucky
                            . After staying there three years he decided to come to Indiana territory and to 
                                Vincennes
                            , where he learned he had relatives. "We had two horses," said
                            LaTure, "and loaded one with our plunder and the other was for my mother and
                            eight-year-old sister to ride. We started and traveled several days, coming to
                                Green river. We followed it to the point where it runs into the 
                                Ohio
                             and then could find no way to cross either river, so we went up the 
                                Ohio
                             for seven or eight miles and found a family of friendly Indians, who carried us
                            over in a canoe, the horses swimming. This was in the fall of 1803. We then traveled in a
                            northerly direction for more than a day, when we came to a large creek (Big Pigeon).
                            Following along this creek we crossed one of its forks (no doubt Big creek in Greer
                            township, 
                                Warrick county
                            ) and continued for several miles farther and came to another fork
                            (Smith's Fork). We did not cross this, but went up the south bank until we found
                            some high land and selected a place for a camp, intending to stay a few days and rest. After
                            being in camp about two days, nine or ten Indians came, pretending to be very friendly. We
                            gave them food, which they ate, but after finishing their meal they jumped up so suddenly
                            that we had no time to think; giving a loud yell one caught me, another my little sister and
                            a third attempted to hold my mother, but she got hold of an axe and in the scuffle struck
                            the blade in the Indian's thigh, severing the main artery, from which he bled to
                            death. Another Indian ran up back of my mother killing her with a club. My father was killed
                            at the fort by two Indians with clubs. About half of them took the dead Indian away and were
                            gone for some time. The rest loaded our plunder on the horses and we went away to the north,
                            leaving my father and mother where they fell, after taking their scalps. After wandering
                            that day and a part of the next we came to a big Indian town near a river, which I think is
                            now White river. My little sister was left there and I never saw her
                            again. I was then taken to an Indian town near 
                                Lake Michigan
                             and lived with the Indians for several years. I went with a party on a hunting
                            expedition and was gone several days, during which trip I made my escape and met a party of
                            General Harrison's soldiers after the battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             and went with them to 
                                Vincennes
                            . I went through the War of 1812 and since then I have hunted Indians and killed
                            every one that I could find."22
                  
                    
                
            In 1804 the Indians were again brought to terms. By the treaty of August 18, 1804, the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians ceded to the 
                    
                        United States
                     all their rights to the tract of land which lay between the 
                        Ohio
                     and Wabash rivers and below the tract ceded by the treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and the road leading from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the falls of the Ohio river. For this territory the national
                    government gave the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians an additional annuity of three hundred dollars; promised persons to teach them
                    to make fences, and cultivate the soil; and lastly to give them horses fit for draught, cattle,
                    hogs, and implements of husbandry to the amount of four hundred dollars.23 On
                    August 27, the Piankeshaws, who laid claim to the above tract, relinquished their title. As a
                    compensation they received an additional annuity of two hundred dollars for ten years, and
                    merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, and implements of husbandry, at the option of the
                    tribe, to the value of seven hundred dollars.24 This treaty gave to the 
                        United States
                     the extreme southwestern part of Indiana and at once settlers began to come into the
                    country.
            Previous to this the settlers had been warned to keep off the land of the Indians. Many emigrants
                    from 
                  Virginia, Tennessee
                and the Carolinas had already squatted along the 
                        Ohio
                     in 
                        Kentucky
                    , waiting for the government to open up the new country. Immediately following the
                    opening of this region, a large number of settlers came into southwestern Indiana. It was about this
                    time that 
                        Warrick county
                     got its first permanent settlers.25
            
            Nearly every locality has its "first settlers", but rarely do the first actual
                    settlers of a community come down to the present as such. There are two kinds of first settlers:
                    those preserved by tradition and those found in the records of the land entries. The first were
                    prominent men of affairs in their neighborhood after it became more thickly settled. The second may
                    or may not have been the first settler. In most all cases, however, the squatter preceded the
                    so-called "first settlers." These facts must be borne in mind in reading the
                    accounts of these "first settlers."
            
               
                  22 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                        171–3.
               
                  23
                        The American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I., 689.
               
                  24
                        American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I., 690.
               
                  25 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                        200.
            
            
            The first white person to make a permanent settlement in what is now 
                        Warrick county
                     seems to have been Major John Sprinkle.26 He was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1772, and later moved to 
                  Henderson
                        county, Kentucky
               . During his
                    residence in 
                        Kentucky
                     he was awarded the title of major of the 
                        Kentucky
                     state militia. He was a man of honor and high social standing in the community.27 In 1803 he removed to Indiana, settling on the present site of Newburg, where
                    he remained until his death in 1821.28 In the fall of the same year (1803) James
                    Lynn and Felty Hay moved into that neighborhood.29 A little later Bailey
                    Anderson crossed over the river from 
                        Kentucky
                     and settled near the mouth of Cypress creek.30
            
            Like many of the early settlers, Bailey Anderson's entire baggage consisted of an axe, gun,
                    and a supply of ammunition. It is said that while he was building his cabin he lodged at night in a
                    tree. This novel bed was made by fixing pieces of timber across two branches of a tree and spreading
                    over them, the skins of wild animals. This place was later known as "Bailey's
                    Roost". A few months afterward four other families, the Briscoes, Skeltons, Vanadas and the
                        Arnolds,31 moved into the vicinity. It was a desirable location and these
                    were soon followed by others.
            
               
                  26 James Lynn settled in 
                            Warrick county
                         as early as 1801. However, this was not a permanent settlement. History of 
                        Warrick, Spencer
                      and 
                                Perry Counties
                            
                  , 191.
               
                  27 The Sprinkles came to 
                            Henderson
                         in 1792. Not long afterwards George Springle, probably the brother of Major
                        Sprinkle, was captured on the Indiana side of the river by the Indians. However, he was finally
                        surrendered to the American soldiers at 
                            Fort Wayne
                         and allowed to return to his home at 
                            Henderson
                        .—Monte M. Katterjohn, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and its Prominent People. 69.
               
                  28
                        History of 
                        Warrick, Spencer
                      and 
                                Perry Counties
                            
                  , 21.
               
                  29 Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and its Prominent People, 16.
               
                  30 Bailey Anderson was one of the leading men of the county. The exact
                        date of his coming to the county is not known. Will Fortune in his book, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and its Prominent People, gives the date of his coming as 1805. The History of 
                        Warrick, Spencer
                      and 
                                Perry Counties
                            
                   gives the date as 1807. We do know that Bailey Anderson was on the
                        rangers' service in 1807. His coming was some time prior to that. After having served
                        on the Rangers, he was made captain of the 
                            Knox county
                         militia, in 1808. It was at his house that the early courts of the county were held
                        and he himself became judge of the court of common pleas of the county in 1813. The following
                        year he was made an associate judge of the 
                            Warrick county
                         circuit court. Nothing further is known of his life. Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, III., 148; Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and its Prominent People, 16, 43; History of
                                    
                        Warrick, Spencer
                      and 
                                Perry Counties
                            
                  , 24; William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                        220.
               
                  31 Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and its Prominent People, 17.
            
            
            Although the first permanent settlement was made in the county as early as 1803, the land was not
                    surveyed until 1805.32 Prior to this all the settlers were necessarily
                    squatters. Even these, on account of the great distance they were required to travel to get a title
                    for the land, many preferred to remain squatters. In 1807, William Johnson entered the first tract
                    of land in the county.33 This tract contained 205½ acres on the
                    present site of Newburg. Other early land entries in the county34 were made by
                    Daniel Rhoads, in 1810; Richard Vankirk, Felty Hay and Solomon Land, in 1811; John Vanada, Joseph
                    English and Ratliff Boon, in 1812.35 Since these were the only land entries in
                    the county down to 1812, it does not follow that these were the only settlers.
            A great deal has been written about pioneers. The first inhabitants of 
                        Warrick county
                     had much in common with all the early settlers in the State. Probably the only special
                    feature of the county was the unusual abundance of game. The canebrakes along the Ohio
                        river and the thickets along Big 
                  
                     32
                            History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 22.
                  
                     33
                            History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 22.
                  
                     34
                            History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 22, 2y, 27.
                  
                            
                        35 Hon. Ratliff Boon, ex-governor of the State of Indiana was born in 
                                    Georgia
                                , (some say in 
                                    North Carolina
                                ), in 1781. He was the cousin of the noted pioneer, Daniel Boon and the
                                son-in-law of Bailey Anderson. His parents moved to 
                           Danville, Kentucky
                        , and there he was put in the public schools. He also
                                learned the trade of gunsmith. In 1809 he moved to Indiana settling about two miles west
                                of the present site of Boonville.
                            Colonel Boon through his unusual tact and sagacity made himself one of the most prominent
                                men in Indiana during the early days. He had force of character and had a way of making
                                loyal friends. In 1812 he was commissioned lieutenant in the Fourth Indiana regiment.
                                The next year 
                                    Warrick county
                                 was organized and he became the first treasurer, which office he held until
                                1820. On the admission of Indiana into the union in 1816, Boon was elected to the State
                                legislature as representative of 
                                    Warrick county
                                . In 1818 he was elected to the State senate. The following year he was
                                chosen as lieutenant governor and upon the resignation of Governor Jennings he filled
                                out the unexpired term. Ha was re-elected as lieutenant governor at the next election
                                resigned on January 30, 1824 to become a candidate for Congress. He was elected on the
                                Jackson Democratic ticket. He was defeated by Col. Thomas H. Blake for representative,
                                in the 20th congress. However, he was a member of the 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th and 25th
                                congresses. With the 25th congress he ended his political connections with Indiana.
                            In 1839, Colonel Boon removed to 
                           Pike County,
                                        Missouri
                        , where he was
                                defeated by Thomas H. Benton in caucus, as a candidate for 
                                    United States
                                 senator. This practically ended his political life. He died in 1846. Will
                                Fortune, 
                           
                                        Warrick
                                     and its Prominent People; William Wesley Wollen, Biographical and Historical sketches of Early Indiana; A Biographical Congressional
                                    Directory, 1774–1911, 486; Indiana Historical Society
                                    Publications, III., 186, 208.
                        
               
                     Pigeon, Cypress and Little Pigeon creeks were their favorite
                    hiding places. A few stories of early hunting in the county have been preserved.
            
                    In the fall of 1807, when the deer were at their best and the bears fat upon the mast, Major
                        Sprinkle and his two kinsmen, cousins from 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , went a little way back from the river and made a camp, intending to have a
                        week's hunting. They had been hunting two or three days when the boys had an
                        experience, the marks of which they carried to the end of their lives. They had been following a
                        drove of deer for some time, when they came upon an old bear and two cubs eating acorns under a
                        white oak tree. One of the boys shot one of the small bears, knocking it down. The old mother
                        and the other little one ran off. It seemed that the little bear was only stunned and was not
                        fatally injured and was soon up, staggering around. The young men ran up to it, intending to
                        finish it with their hunting knives. They laid down their guns, but had not quite reached the
                        place where the young bear was, until the old mother came at them savagely.
                    They attempted to get their guns, but before they succeeded the old bear knocked one of them
                        down. The other got his gun, but it was empty, and rushing at the bear that was fighting his
                        brother he struck it over the head with the barrel of the gun. The bear knocked the gun out of
                        his hands with such force that it broke his arm. The other brother, though badly wounded, got
                        his gun and attempted to shoot the bear in the head as it was biting his brother, but his aim
                        was so bad that he only slightly wounded it, and then the bear turned upon him and knocked him
                        down, biting his legs in a fearful manner. The boy with the broken arm stabbed the bear many
                        times with his hunting knife and finally hurt it fatally. It started, however, to follow the
                        cubs, but had gone only a few yards when it laid down and died. The young men were found by the
                        Major and taken to camp and then to his cabin, where they were for several months before they
                        were able to be out. This experience satisfied their roving dispositions and they returned to
                        their 
                            Pennsylvania
                         homes.
                
            Long after the game was thinned out of the surrounding country, the old Polk Patch, now Selvin, 
                        Warrick county
                    , remained a good hunting ground. As late as 1824, David Johnson, Jessie Houchins, Joel
                    Harden and Conrad LeMasters pitched their hunting camp at Polk Patch. On the first day they killed
                    several deer and a bear. They were so successful in their hunting that they had more game than they
                    knew what to do with. Of the deer only the hind quarters and the hides were aken, the rest left
                    where it was killed. The second 
                  
                     36 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            502.
               
                     day Mr. LeMasters was seriously hurt in a fight with a bear and
                    the party had to return home.37
            
            The woods were full of troublesome and dangerous animals. The wolf was so despised that a price was
                    put on his scalp. A wolf's scalp was worth two dollars.38 The following
                    incident, which took place at the Sprinkle settlement in 1812, is told of the most dangerous of
                    these animals.
            
                    There was a young girl who lived with one of these families at the Sprinkles settlement who was
                        expecting a sister from central 
                            Tennessee
                        . She was very uneasy about her, fearing that she had been captured by the Indians.
                        Late one evening, just before dusk, a whining, piteous cry was heard, which did not seem like
                        the scream of a panther, as it was continuous. This girl heard the noise and declared it was the
                        cry of her sister, and nothing could stop her from going out to it. Before the men in the fort
                        realized her intentions, she was running in the direction of the noise. Three of the men got
                        their rifles and hurried after her. They were uncertain what it was, thinking it might be the
                        ruse of the Indians trying to imitate the cry of a woman or child to draw some of the people
                        into an ambush. The men had gone nearly a quarter of a mile when they heard the most terrible
                        scream of the panther mingled with the outcry of the unfortunate girl. Hurrying as fast as they
                        could, when they located the scream, they were very cautious in their advance. Coming to an open
                        space they saw several animals which were biting and scratching the body of the girl they had
                        killed. The men killed the old panther and two of the young ones that she, no doubt, was
                        teaching to scream, which was the cause of the peculiar noise which they had heard. After she
                        had killed the girl she was teaching the young ones how to attack their prey, and she would
                        bound onto the prostrate form and bite and scratch it. The kittens would go through the same
                        motions and thus had torn her into pieces.39
               
                
            These pioneers had other things to do as well as to fish and hunt. Houses had to be built, land had
                    to be cultivated, and homes protected. For many years the early settlers of 
                        Warrick county
                     were continually in danger of Indian raids. Early in the first decade of the nineteenth
                    century, in order to give them more safety, they enlarged the Old Indian Traces into a complete
                    system of roads.
            The first roads of the state were usually the old Indian trails or the Buffalo paths. Of these early
                    trails probably the 
                  
                     37 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            175.
                  
                     38 On December 24th, 1816, the Indiana legislature passed a law
                            providing that for the killing of each wolf two months old and upwards, the person should
                            receive $2.00 and for wolves under that $1.00. To get the pay the
                            person had to produce the scalp, with the ears entire and within one month after the
                            killing.
                  
                     39 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            503.
               
                     best known in the southwestern part of the State was the 
                        Vincennes
                     Trace.40 Long before the first white settlers came into the country
                    this trace was a fairly well denned route, for both the Indians and Buffaloes, between the Bluegrass
                    region in 
                        Kentucky
                     and the 
                        Illinois
                     prairies. Later it became one of the regular lines of travel leading into the interior
                    of Indiana. There were two main branches of this trace, a northern and southern route. The northern
                    route led from 
                  Louisville, Jeffersonville
                and 
                        New Albany
                     by Greenville, Fredericksburg, Paoli, Mount Pleasant,41 and Maysville to 
                        Vincennes
                     on the Wabash river.42 The southern route
                    followed along the Northern Trace to Paoli where it branched off to the westward and entered 
                        Dubois County
                     at Union Valley,43 passed to the south of
                    Haysville and Pottersville, leaving the county near the Miley schoolhouse,44
                    thence through northern 
                        Pike County
                    , crossing White river at Decker's ferry to the northwest
                    of Petersburg, and thence to 
                        Vincennes
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    .45 These routes later became stage-coach roads.
            Three other traces in southwestern Indiana were traveled previous to the opening of that region to
                    settlement. The first of these, traveled by Colonel Harmar, has already been discussed. This trace,
                    although important at one time, seems later to have disappeared but the other two routes; the Red
                    Banks trace and the Yellow Banks trace, were well known to the early settlers. The Red Banks trace
                    crossed the Ohio river at Red Bank Island, about a mile below the present site
                    of 
                  Henderson, Kentucky
               , and ran northward through what is now Vanderburg and 
                        Gibson counties
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    .46 In 1801 Governor Harrison asked the national government to 
                  
                     40 This trace was also known as the "Buffalo Trace",
                            "Mud Holes", "Governor's Trace", "
                                Louisville
                             Trace", "
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Ohio Falls Trace", "Clarksville Trace" and
                            the "Old Trace", Readings in Indiana History, 156;
                            George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 27, 100, 158; William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of
                                Indiana, 223.
                  
                     41
                            Mount Pleasant was on the east branch of White
                            River, (Driftwood branch) in 
                                Rutherford
                             township in 
                                Martin county
                            .
                  
                     42
                            Readings in Indiana History, 157
                  
                     43
                            Union Valley is in the Northeastern 
                                Dubois County
                             near the central part of 
                                Columbia
                             township. George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 284.
                  
                     44 Miley Schoolhouse is in northwestern 
                                Dubois County
                             in the southwestern part of 
                                Boone
                             township. George R. Wilson, 284.
                  
                     45 George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 27; History of 
                                    Pike
                                 and 
                                    Dubois Counties
                                
                     , 1885, 251.
               
                     send a deputy to the Indians to arrange for the opening of this
                        trace.47 In 1802 the crossing at the Ohio river was
                    made more convenient by the establishment of a ferry at 
                        Henderson
                     by Jonathan Anthony.48 Another ferry, called Blair's
                    ferry, was established six miles farther up stream.49 With the opening of the
                    southwestern part of the state to settlement in 1804 this trace became one of the important routes
                    to the interior.
            The Yellow Banks trace50 crossed the Ohio river at the
                    Yellow Bank island, almost opposite 
                  Owensboro,
                            Kentucky
               , and ran northward past 
                        Rockport
                    , to the headwaters of Little Pigeon, thence near the present site of Selvin, thence in
                    a northwesterly direction to Honey Springs,51 thence along the spring branch to
                    the Little Patoka river, thence to the northward crossing the Big Patoka about
                    forty miles up stream at a good ford and continued to the forks of White river
                    and the 
                        Vincennes
                     trace.52 This route, at first an Indian trace, was later used by
                    the early settlers as a route to the interior.
            With the opening of the southwestern part of the State to settlement, other routes of travel became
                    necessary. One of the earliest of these ways of travel was the Blue River
                    trace. This trace crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     at the west end of the large bend about three miles west of Blue
                    river and ran north hitting the 
                        Vincennes
                     trace about forty miles east of the Mud Holes.53 There was a road
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                     leading to the south bank of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Two other traces appeared almost simultaneously with the first settlements. These were
                    the routes to the salt works in southeastern 
                        Illinois
                    . One of the most difficult problems of the pioneer was to keep a supply of salt. One of
                    these salt routes ran from 
                        Vincennes
                     southward, crossed 
                  
                     45 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            324; Thwaites Early Western Travels, IV., 266; Samuel Cummings, The Western Pilot for 1834, 64.
                  
                     47 Moses Dawson, Life of 
                                    Harrison
                                
                     , 18.
                  
                     48 Edmund L. Starling, History of 
                                    Henderson County
                                
                     , 118.
                  
                     49 Thwaites, Early Western Travels, IV., 266.
                  
                     50 Yellow Banks was called Weesoe Wasapinuk by the Kickapoos, William
                            M. Cockrum, A PiPoneer History of Indiana, 174.
                  
                     51 Honey Springs were in the southwestern part of 
                                Pike County
                             near Spurgeon. Historical Atlas of the State of Indiana, 171.
                  
                     52 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            174, 212, 256, 156, 177, 205, 207; Samuel Cummings, The Western Pilot for
                            1834, 58.
                  
                     53 The Mud Holes were on the southern branch of the 
                                Vincennes
                             trace almost south of Portersville.
               
                    
                    White river near David Robb's place and the Patoka at John
                        Severn's,54 thence in a southwest direction to near the present
                    site of 
                        New Harmony
                    , thence across the Wabash river near the point where the Little
                    Wabash empties into the main stream and thence to Saline creek.55 Another one of
                    these routes used by the early settlers for the same purpose, crossed the 
                        Wabash
                     near the Saline region and followed the 
                        Ohio
                     eastward, passing near the present site of Newburg, Indiana, then with the course of
                    the river eastward across Blue river trace and probably to the Fall on the 
                        Ohio
                    .56 Before the settlement of this part of the State the 
                        Ohio
                     trace had been a regular passway for the Indians from time immemorial.57 On account of the scarcity of salt these routes were of extreme importance.58
            
            The early settlers down to 1820 experienced great difficulty in getting sufficient salt for cooking
                    purposes and to save their meat. It was very hard to get and high priced, usually selling for ten to
                    twenty cents a pound in backwoods currency.59 The people were very saving with
                    it. Meat was placed in a meat trough made of a poplar tree and salted. After the meat had taken all
                    the salt it would, the brine which had collected in the bottom of the trough was saved to be used
                    again. On account of the danger from Indian attacks, the early settlers from this region of the
                    country went in squads to the salt springs and camped on the ground until they had sufficient salt
                    for the year. The salt was sacked and brought home on horseback.60
            
            Bradbury in his Travels in the Interior of America (1809–11) 
                  
                     54 In 1807 there were two ferries across the Patoka near the crossing
                            of this trace, one by John Severn's and the other by John Miller's.
                            Miller's ferry was about three miles above the mouth of Patoka
                            river. Indiana Historical Society Publications, III.,
                            140–1.
                  
                     55 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            216.
                  
                     56 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            220.
                  
                     57 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            221.
                  
                     58 In the fall of 1807 salt became so scarce and so high priced that a
                            number of the settlers south of White river petitioned the governor for
                            an escort of soldiers to protect them while on the trail and at the salt works west of the
                                Wabash river. William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of
                                Indiana, 216.
                  
                     59 However by 1823 the price of salt had fallen to 371 cents a bushel
                            at Shawneetown. Niles Register, XXIX, 165.
                  
                     60 Joseph P. Elliott, History of 
                                    Evansville
                                 and 
                                    Vanderburg County
                                , Indiana, 54; William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of
                                Indiana, 474.
               
                     described the salt manufacturing at the 
                        Wabash
                     Salt Springs61 as follows: 
                        They first ascertain by boring at what depth they shall come to the rock, and afterwards look
                            out for a hollow tree, which must be at least from three to four feet in diameter. This they
                            cut down carefully for fear of splitting and saw off such a length as will reach from the
                            surface of the ground to the rock. If the hollow of the tree is not large enough to allow
                            sufficient space for a man to work within, they enlarge it. A well is next dug, and when so
                            deep that there is danger of the earth falling in, the trunk is put down and sunk to the
                            surface of the rock. After the influx of fresh water is prevented by calkins around the
                            edges at the bottom of the trunk, the perforation is made. And the salt water immediately
                            rises to the surface.62
                  
                    
                
            Some years later, in 1814, a party of men undertook to establish a salt well on Cypress creek, in 
                        Warrick county
                    . This well was put down about two or three miles back from the Ohio
                    river at a deer lick. After boring to a considerable depth without any satisfactory
                    results the men engaged in the work became discouraged and abandoned the enterprise.63 Another attempt was made on Pigeon creek. For a number of years, it was thought that
                    salt water could be obtained on this stream. Two enterprising citizens of the county put down a well
                    528 feet deep and obtained a tolerable supply of salt water from which they made from twenty-five to
                    thirty bushels of salt a day.64 Not being satisfied, they bored deeper and hit
                    mineral water which ruined the well.65
            
            Along in 1805, in 1806 and in 1807 the Indians were loud in their declarations that the whites should
                    be driven beyond 
                  
                     61 The 
                                Wabash
                             Saline springs were in the southeastern part of 
                                Illinois
                            , along the Ohio river, below the mouth of the 
                                Wabash
                             and near the present site of Shawneetown. These springs were so important that
                            in 1802 they were taken over by the national government. 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, 14th Congress, 1st session, ch. 67, 68; Moses
                            Dawson, Life of 
                                    Harrison
                                
                     , 30.
                  
                     62 Thwaites, Early Western Travels, V., 276; for
                            further references on this subject see: Thwaites, Early Western Travels,
                            I., 108. III., 283; IV., 271; V., 276–8; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, April 29, 1809; George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 48.
                  
                     63 Will Fortune, 
                        
                                    Warrick
                                 and Its Prominent People, 40.
                  
                     64 The salt springs of the west generally produced a bushel of salt
                            from one hundred gallons of water. Thwaites, Early Western Travels, VIII,
                            283.
                  
                     65
                            The Indiana Gazetter, 1833, 30.
               
                     the Ohio river.66
                    Bands of Indians were continually roving through the country to the south of White
                        river.67 They became more active than usual in their
                    depredations. There is no doubt that many people of whom we have no account were captured or killed
                    in attempting to settle in this part of the State. For the better protection of these settlers,
                    Governor Harrison constituted in the early part of 1807, the Ranger service.68
                    Col. William Hargrove, 69, was put in command of the troops in the southwestern part of the State.
                    Under his protection two new traces were laid out and patroled.
            The first of these routes, the Patoka trace, started near John Severn's (where the Redbanks
                    trace crossed the Patoka river) and ran along the south bank of that stream,
                    across the Yellow Banks trace and eastward to the Blue River trace. The second
                    started from the Red Banks trace at a point fifteen miles north of the Ohio
                    river and ran eastward parallel with that stream to the Blue River
                        trace.70 These traces as 
                  
                            
                        65 Following is an extract from a letter of W. H. Harrison, governor
                                of Indiana Territory to Captain William Hargrove, in command of the Rangers which showed
                                the attitude of the Indians toward the settlers beyond the Ohio
                                river:
                            
                        
                           
                              "The times are very unsettled. The Indians are continually grumbling
                                            because the white people are in this country and threatening that unless
                                            their lands are restored they will drive them back across the Ohio
                                                river. North of White river they could
                                            easily concentrate in such numbers that should they find our people
                                            unprepared, they could overrun the most of our territory. It is hard to tell
                                            anything about what an Indian will do when he has the advantage. They are
                                            the most treacherous, cunning rascals on earth and the most brutal as well.
                                            The only safe way is to keep the advantage on our side and put the Indians
                                            on the defense. When they know that your position makes one white man equal
                                            to ten Indians there is no danger of an attack."
                           
                        
                     
                            William M. Cock-rum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            218–9.
                        
                  
                     67 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            201.
                  
                     68 Rangers were organized under officers the same as the regular army
                            and paid the same as army officers of the corresponding rank. The rangers were to arm and
                            equip themselves, and provide for their own horses if they wanted one. They were given a
                            dollar a day with a horse or seventy-five cents without a horse.—Annals of
                            Congress, 12th congress, 1st session, II. 2228; William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer
                                History of Indiana, 202.
                  
                     69 Col. William Hargrove was born in 
                                South Carolina
                            , 1775. He later moved to 
                                Kentucky
                             and was there married. Here he spent three years in Indian service and showed
                            himself to be a brave soldier. In 1803 he moved to Indiana settling near 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana. In 1807 and 1812 he was in the Ranger service. He was gradually
                            promoted to the rank of colonel. In 1811 he served in the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             campaign. William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            203.
                  
                     70 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            212–218.
               
                     well as the 
                        Vincennes
                    , Yellow Banks, Red Banks, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Wabash
                     traces were regularly patroled by two or three men twice or three times a week.71
            
            Every precaution was taken for the safety of the settlers. They were required to settle on or near
                    the regularly traveled traces and build a fort or a blockhouse.72 It was not
                    safe for any one to live outside the forts from the first of June to the last of November. This was
                    the season for the Indian raids.73 However if they chose they might build their
                    houses where they intended to locate and return each night to stay at the blockhouse.74 There were three or four of these forts75 in the country at that
                    time. The first of these was located on the present site of Newburg. The Sprinkles, Hayes, Lynns,
                    Alexanders, Darbys, Frames, Wests, and the Roberts— in all thirty-five
                    persons—lived in this fort.76 There was also another large fort on
                    the present site of Selvin, Indiana. This fort was probably sufficiently large to accommodate a
                    hundred soldiers besides the settlers living there.77 Bailey Anderson's
                    settlement at the mouth of Cypress creek has already been described. 
                  
                     71 There were two other traces in southwestern Indiana, traveled to a
                            considerable extent at one time, which, however, were not usd by the settlers of 
                                Warrick county
                            . The first of these was called the Barren trace or the 
                                Highland
                             trace. It crossed the Ohio river about seven miles below
                            Shippingport, at 
                                Sullivan
                            's ferry, passed Corydon, crossed the Blue River
                            trace, ran through the northern part of 
                                Crawford
                             and 
                                Perry counties
                            , near 
                                Jasper
                             and on to 
                                Vincennes
                            . The second of these traces ran from 
                                Rome
                             northward seventy-five miles to 
                                Vincennes
                            . There was a ferry across the 
                                Ohio
                             at 
                                Rome
                            . Thwaites, Early Western Travels, IV., 261, 264.
                  
                     72 Governor Harrison gave the following instruction to Colonel
                            Hargrove, commander of the Rangers: There are always some contrary people in all walks of
                            life who are hard to manage. The ones that you reported are not all who have been
                            troublesome. There is no deviation from the rules. Anyone who refuses to stay in the fort
                            when ordered, arrest them and send them to this post under guard. When the government does
                            all that it can to protect its people they must and shall obey the rules. Their territory is
                            under no law that can force obedience but military and all of its subjects must obey the
                            governing rule or be sent out of it." William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer
                                History of Indiana, 207.
                  
                     73 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            503, 205.
                  
                     74 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            214.
                  
                     75 Governor Harrison gave Colonel Hargrove, commander of the Rangers,
                            the following instruction as to the building of these forts: "In making the
                            building be sure that it is strongly put together, made out of large logs and that a
                            stockade ten feet high be built that will enclose one acre of ground. In this enclosure
                            should be erected a number of buildings that will safely protect fifty people."
                  
                     76 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            503.
                  
                     77 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            218.
               
                    
                    78 There was one other settlement in the county the exact location of which is
                    not known. When these new comers were first mentioned they were located on a large creek, some
                    distance from the Ohio river, ten miles to the west of the Yellow Banks
                        trace,79 and not far from the trace running parallel to the Ohio
                        river. This trace was about fifteen miles to the north of the river.80 On account of danger from the Indians they were asked to move either near the Yellow Banks
                    trace or the new trace.81 It is supposed that these settlers moved to one of
                    these places, for Colonel Hargrove reported that he was successful in getting all the straggling
                    settlements gathered near one of the traces.82 It is probable that these
                    settlers located in the northeastern part of the county.
            The Indians became especially active in 1807. In the early spring of that year a band of 
                        Delaware
                     Indians captured a family named Larkins, near the present site of
                            
                  Otwell, Pike
                        County
               . Mr. Larkins was killed and Mrs. Larkins and five children carried
                    into captivity. In July of the same year, a half breed 
                        Delaware
                     Indian, called "Swimming Otter", reported that there was likely to be
                    an Indian raid within the next ten days in this section of the country. A band of about twelve
                    Indians had planned to cross the 
                        Vincennes
                     trace near the present boundary line between 
                        Pike
                     and 
                        Dubois Counties
                     and to move southward toward the mouth of Green river.83
                    
                  
                     78, Cummings in his sketches of a Tour to the Western
                                Country, 1807–09, mentioned this settlement: "Having passed two
                            more Islands, and some new farms, in nine miles and a half, we came to a string of six or
                            seven good looking settlements, called Scuffletown, 
                                Kentucky
                            , on the left; and two miles and a half on the right, we observed two new
                            settlements, a small creek, and a bluff rock, serving as a base to an elevated conic
                            promontory terminating a wide reach, and narrowing the river so by its projection, as to
                            make it an eligible situation for a fortified post." Thwaites, Early
                                Western Travels, IV., 265.
                  
                     79 The folowing mention is made of this settlement in Colonel
                            Hargrove's correspondence:
                        
                           
                              "They all agreed in their statements that there are several other
                                            bands scattered over the territory some distance north of the Ohio
                                                river from ten to fifteen miles east of the Yellow Banks
                                            trace to something like the same distance to the west of the same trace.
                                            They claim that there is one band of these refugees west of the Yellow Banks
                                            trace about ten miles. They were camped near a large creek."
                           
                        
                      William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, 214.
                  
                     80 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            218.
                  
                     81 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            214.
                  
                     82 Governor Harrison wrote to Colonel Hargrove, commander of the
                            Rangers, as follows:
                        
                           
                              "The Governor wishes to assure you of his appreciation of your
                                            successful work in gathering so many of the unfortunate refugees at points
                                            near the Yellow Banks and other traces and the large colony which you have
                                            gathered on the new trace crossing the Yellow Banks road."
                           
                        
                      William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, 218.
                  
                     83 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            201–210.
               
                     Colonel Hargrove had time to make preparation to receive the
                    raid and the Indians were thoroughly chastised.
            A little later in the year (1807) the people began to fear another attack from the Indians. In
                    October of that year, Maj. John Sprinkle informed the governor that detached bands of Indians had
                    been passing for eight or ten days and appeared to be carrying their luggage with them. Some of
                    these Indians made their camp not far from Bailey Anderson's cabin. The gathering of the
                    Indians on the 
                        Ohio
                     in the later fall was looked on with suspicion. Colonel William Hargrove, Bailey
                    Anderson and two other men, were sent to visit the chief, whose name was Setteedown.84 Chief Setteedown assured these men that the tribes were only paying a peaceful visit,
                    that the reason for their coming was the abundance of game; and that they would go back to their
                    country by the 26th of November. True to their word, the Kickapoos, the visiting Indians from 
                        Illinois
                    , returned again to their homes without any trouble.85
            
            The Shawnee Indians continued to live in what is now 
                        Warrick county
                     until 1811. This band of Indians was under the control of Chief Setteedown, who, for
                    one of his race, was wealthy, having a large drove of horses and cattle. Their village, already
                    referred to, was situated near the mouth of Cypress creek, on the north bank of the Ohio
                        river. The west end of this town was near the Newcom coal mines and scattered over a
                    considerable territory along and back from the river. It is said that at one time the village
                    numbered about one hundred wigwams.86 During the years from 1808 to 1811 these
                    Indians were peaceable87 with the white people who lived in that section.88
            
            
               
                  84 Bailey Anderson was to act as Interpreter. William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, 220.
               
                  85 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                        222–228.
               
                  86 Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and Its Prominent People, 9.
               
                  87 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                        502, 513.
               
                  88 From 1808 to 1811, there was considerable trouble in Indiana Territory
                        with the Indians along the frontier. Governor Harrison was able to secure a peace with some of
                        the Indians in 1809, but Tecumseh and his followers were loud In their declarations against it
                        and tried to prevent its being carried into effect. During this period the Indians made numerous
                        raids along the frontier, crossing over into the white settlements in many places, killing the
                        settlers or running off the stock. The times became so troublesome that many left the country. 
                            Warrick
                         was considered to be a safe place even in time of war. 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun, May 13, 1809; William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History
                            of Indiana, 340–363; Moses Dawson, Life of 
                                Harrison
                            
                  , 262.
            
            
            Preceding the outbreak of the War of 1812, the Indians made numbers of raids along the border. The
                    unsettled condition of the Indians probably had something to do with one of these murders committed
                    in 
                        Warrick county
                    , the details of which follow:
            Probably as early as 1810, the Meeks family settled on Little Pigeon creek, in the northern part of
                    Luce township, 
                        Spencer county
                    . There Atha Meeks and his son William built log houses. In the cabin of the elder Meeks
                    were his two grown daughters and his son, Atha, Jr. William Meeks, another one of his sons, who had
                    a wife and one small child lived near by. It seems that by the spring of 1812 only a few straggling
                    bands of Indians remained in the neighborhood.89 Most of them had probably gone
                    north under the direction of Tecumseh to prepare for a general raid along the frontier. However
                    Chief Setteedown and his followers were still living in the county. What led the Indians to make an
                    attack on the Meeks family can only be conjectured. It might have been, as some claim, that a family
                    living near Darlington who had a grudge against the Meeks family, persuaded Setteedown that Meeks
                    had been stealing his traps.90 It was doubtless partly done at the instigation
                    of Tecumseh, who had planned to make a concerted attack along the entire frontier,91 and in this manner so to divide the attention of the settlers as to prevent the militia
                    from going to the protection of any other part of the State.92 So
                    Setteedown's warriors before departing to the 
                        Wabash country
                     to put on war paint and feathers, decided to massacre the nearest white settlers,
                    toward whom they had a grudge. Thus early on the morning of April 14, 1812, an attack was made on
                    the Meeks family. Some say that the murder was done by Setteedown, his son and an Indian called
                    "Big Bones"93 while others lay the deed to a band 
                  
                     89
                            History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 251.
                  
                     90 Will Fortune, 
                        
                                    Warrick
                                 and Its Prominent People, 11.
                  
                     91 The story of the stealing of the traps is discarded by General
                            Lane. Joseph Lane, Rosebury, 
                                Oregon
                            , in a letter to Col. W. M. Cockrum, June 21, 1878, said: "There was no
                            cause, except treachery which all Indians were full of for the Shawnee Indians murdering
                            Atha Meeks. He was a very harmless man. It was always believed by those in a position to
                            know that the murder was done by a few discontented members of that band, aiming to remove
                            all traces of that family." William Cockrum, A Pioneer History of
                                Indiana, 515.
                  
                     92 Moses Dawson, Life of 
                                    Harrison
                                
                     , 262.
                  
                     93
                            History of 
                                    Warrick
                                    Spencer
                                 and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 251.
               
                     of Setteedown's warriors.94 At
                    least it is known that only three Indians participated directly in the murder.95
                    The accounts agree on this fact.
            While the Indians were on their way to the Meeks cabin to make the attack they met Atha Meeks, Jr.,
                    the strong, athletic son of senior Atha on his way to a nearby spring to get some water with which
                    to prepare breakfast. Some say that he was fired at by two of the Indians and slightly wounded in
                    the knee and wrist. Others make no mention of this. Nevertheless two of the Indians attacked him
                    with tomahawks but he fought so desperately that he partly succeeded in warding off with his arms
                    the blows aimed at his head. It is probable that the two Indians had already emptied their guns or
                    they would have made quick work of him. In the meantime Atha, Sr., had been aroused by the noise and
                    had appeared at the door where he was shot through the brain killing him instantly. The Indian
                    rushed forward to scalp the dead man, but Mrs. Meeks succeeded in getting her husband's
                    body in the house and barring the door before the Indian reached it. Tradition says that she
                    received a severe wound in the ankle from a tomahawk, thrown by the Indian.96
                    William Meeks was aroused by the report of the gun and came to the rescue of his mother. One of the
                    Indians was fatally wounded. The two who were trying to kill Atha, Jr., escaped before William had
                    time to reload his rifle.97
            
            William started at full speed to a settlement in the southern part of Luce township, 
                        Spencer county
                     to spread the news of the murder. When the news reached that place a runner was sent to
                    French island, on the Ohio river, for the help of a keel-boat crew under Sam
                    Perkins. The crew of seventeen men volunteered to the man. These with a number of farmers made up
                    the posse. One account has reached us that Ratliff Boon was put in command98
                    while another gives this distinction to Captain Young.99
            
            
               
                  96
                        History of 
                        Warrick, Spencer
                      and 
                                Perry Counties
                            
                  , 252.
               
                  97
                        History of 
                        Warrick, Spencer
                      and 
                                Perry Counties
                            
                  , 252.
               
                  98 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                        514.
               
                  99 Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and Its Prominent People, 12.
               
                  94 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                        514; Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and Its Prominent People, 11.
               
                  95 Moses Dawson, Life of 
                                Harrison
                            
                  , 262.
            
            
            It was probably about noon before the party of men was ready to start. Although the Indians had six
                    or eight hours the lead they were encumbered with their baggage and families. Traditional stories
                    vary a great deal as to the outcome of this expedition. Some say that only Setteedown and his family
                    were fleeing to the northward and that they were captured. Others say that Setteedown was
                    accompanied by a band of warriors few of whom ever lived to cross the river.100
                    Yet another account says that the posse went only to the Indian camp where they hid themselves to
                    watch for the return of any of the Indians. At least the stories agreed that one Indian was taken
                    captive. As to who this captive was, there is a difference of opinion. Some say that it was Chief
                    Setteedown while others say that it was an Indian who had been hunting for two or three days and at
                    nightfall came to the camp where he was taken.
            The captive was placed in a log cabin, probably Uriah Lamar's house, near 
                        Grandview
                    , where he was to await preliminary trial. While waiting for trial the Indian was
                    killed. Whether he was shot by William Meek, while the guards were away to get a drink, or shot by
                    Thomas Ewing or bled to death by Bailey Anderson stories vary. At least the Indian was killed.101 It is said that for months after the hasty retreat of the Indians, horses
                    and cattle were found around Setteedowns' home. These were gathered up and thirty-five
                    turned over to the widow of Atha Meeks.102
            
            There is no doubt, however, about the effect of this raid upon the people of 
                        Warrick county
                    . A murder committed in a section of the State where the settlers felt in almost
                    complete safety even in time of war, so alarmed the people that it was impossible to make the
                    militia turn out to march to the assistance or protection of any other places. The alarm was so
                    great that many families abandoned their homes flying they 
                  
                     100 Joseph Lane, Rosebury, 
                                Oregon
                            , in a letter to Col. W. M. Cockrum, June 21, 1878, said: "The Indians
                            were encumbered with their women and children and could not make the speed well-mounted
                            soldiers could, and it was generally believed that but few of them ever lived to cross
                                White river. There was always an undertalk that Boon did a good
                            deed and the country was well rid of the lazy vagrants." William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana, 514.
                  
                     101 Will Fortune. 
                        
                                    Warrick
                                 and Its Prominent People, 13.
                  
                     102 William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of
                            Indiana, 514.
               
                     knew not where,—many without means of support.103 Those who remained in the county took refuge in such temporary forts as they
                    had been able to construct. It was especially bad for the people to be confined to the forts because
                    it was corn planting time.104
            
            After the first year of the war the people of 
                        Warrick county
                     began to feel more secure105 and many people from along the
                    frontier settled in that section of the country.106 The county was never again
                    troubled with the warlike Indians, however, for many years afterwards peaceful ones occasionally
                    returned to hunt in that region.107
            
            ORGANIZATION OF THE COUNTY
            The county was named in honor of Capt. Jacob Warrick, who fell in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , November, 1811. Little is known of his life except that he was one of the heroes of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , where he distinguished himself for his bravery. Governor Harrison in reporting the
                    battle said of Captain Warrick's death: "Warwick (
                        Warrick
                    ) was shot through the body; being taken to the surgeon to be dressed, as soon as it was
                    over, (being a man of great bodily vigor and still able to walk) he insisted upon going back to head
                    his company, although it was evident that he had but a few hours to live."1 Such was the bravery of the man from whom the county took its name.
            In 1813, the territorial legislature of Indiana enacted a law authorizing the organization of two new
                    counties to be called 
                        Warrick
                     and 
                        Gibson
                    .2 At that time 
                        Warrick county
                     included 
                  
                     103 Moses Dawson, Life of 
                                    Harrison
                                
                     , 263.
                  
                     104
                            American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I., 808.
                  
                     105 This fact is very well shown by a study of the table of the
                            membership of the Methodist Church from 1810–15 hereafter.
                  
                     106 In July, 1812, the Rangers were sent out again. This gave the
                            people greater security. William M. Cockrum, A Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            349.
                  
                     101 Joseph P. Elliott, History of 
                                    Evansville
                                 and 
                                    Vanderburg County
                                
                     , 1897, 34.
                  
                     1
                            American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I., 778.
                  
                            
                        2 An act for the formation of two counties out of the county of 
                                    Knox
                                : Section 1. "Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
                                Representatives, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That from and
                                after the passage hereof all that part of 
                                    Knox county
                                 which is included in the following boundaries shall form and constitute two
                                new counties, that is to say: 
                                    Beginning at the mouth of the 
                                            Wabash
                                        ; thence up the same with the meanders thereof to the mouth of
                                            White River; thence up White River
                                        with the meanders thereof to the forks of White River;
                                        thence up the east fork of White River, to where the line
                                        between Sections No. 20 and 29, in Township No. 1 north, of Range No. 4 west,
                                        strikes the same; thence with said line to the line of 
                                            Harrison County
                                        ; thence with the said line dividing the counties of 
                                            Knox
                                         and 
                                            Harrison
                                         to the Ohio River; thence down the
                                            Ohio River to the beginning.
                                    Section 2. Be it further enacted, that the trace of country included within the
                                        aforesaid boundaries be, and the same is hereby divided into two separate and
                                        distinct counties by a line begining on the Wabash river
                                        and known and designated by the name of Rector's base line, and with
                                        said line east until it intersects the line of 
                                            Harrison County
                                        , and that from and after the first day of April, one thousand,
                                        eight hundred and thirteen, the trace of country falling within the southern
                                        division thereof, shall be known and designated by the name and style of the
                                        County of 
                                            Warrick
                                        . And the northern division thereof shall be known and designated by
                                        the name and style of the County of 
                                            Gibson
                                        .
                                    James Dill, Speaker of the House of Representatives. James
                                        Beggs, President of the Legislative Council. Approved, March 9, 1813:
                                        John Gibson." Laws of Indiana, 1813, 67.
                                
                            
                        
               
                     all the territory which now comprises the counties of 
                        Posey
                    , Vanderburg, 
                  Warrick, Spencer, Perry
                and a portion of 
                        Crawford
                    . John Ocheltree, Abel Westfall, William Polk, Robert Elliott and William Prince, all
                    from 
                        Knox county
                    , were appointed commissioners to locate the county seat.3 The
                    commissioners were to meet at the mill of Jonathan Anthony on Pigeon creek and there decide upon the
                    location. At the time appointed for their meeting a majority, for some reason, failed to appear and
                    in their places were substituted William 
                  
                            
                        3 "Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
                                Representatives, and it is hereby enacted by the authorities of the same, that John
                                Ocheltree, Abel Westfall, William Polk, Robert Elliott and William Prince, all of 
                                    Knox county
                                , be and they are hereby appointed commissioners for the purpose of fixing
                                the seat of justice in the counties of 
                                    Gibson
                                 and 
                                    Warrick
                                , whose duty it shall be to convene at the house of John McJunkin, In 
                                    Gibson county
                                 on the first Monday in February next, and proceed to fix the seat of
                                justice in the county of 
                                    Gibson
                                 in conformity with and in respects agreeably to an act passed at the last
                                session of the Legislature, entitled "An Act fixing the seat of justice in all
                                new counties hereafter laid off."
                            Section 2. And be it further enacted, That the aforesaid Commissioners shall immediately
                                after they may have fixed the seat of justice in 
                                    Gibson county
                                , repair to 
                                    Warrick county
                                 to the mill of Jonathan Anthony, and proceed to fix the seat of justice in
                                the same, in the same manner as is provided in the first section of this act for fixing
                                the seat in 
                                    Gibson county
                                .
                            Section 3. And be it further enacted, That the Sheriff of 
                                    Knox county
                                 be and he is hereby required to serve the aforesaid Commissioners with a
                                notice of their said appointments on or before the 20th day of January next, for which
                                service he shall be allowed such compensation as the courts of Common Pleas in the
                                counties of 
                                    Gibson
                                 and 
                                    Warrick
                                 may deem reasonable to be allowed and discharged in the same manner that
                                other county claims are; Provided, however, that if any of the said commissioners should
                                be disqualified to act as Commissioner by the said act for fixing the seats of justice,
                                etc., the said courts of Common Pleas in the said counties of 
                                    Gibson
                                 and 
                                    Warrick
                                , or either of them, shall have power to appoint others to supply such
                                vacancy.
                        
               
                     Prince, Daniel Putnam, Alexander Diven, John Milburn and
                    William Hargrove.4
                    
                        Evansville
                     was selected for the capital of the county. Hugh McGary, who owned the lower part of
                    what later became the city of 
                        Evansville
                    , laid out a number of lots and donated some of these to the county on condition that
                    the commissioners should locate the courthouse at that place.5 The deed to this
                    land was made to Nathaniel Claypool, county agent, and dated July 15, 1814. It is probable that
                    Colonel McGary's gift of a hundred acres of land had considerable influence in the
                    selection of 
                        Evansville
                     as the county seat.6 This was the first capital of 
                        Warrick county
                    .
            Within three months after 
                        Evansville
                     was made the capital of 
                        Warrick
                    , an act was passed by the territorial legislature creating out of that county the
                    counties of 
                        Posey
                     (with nearly its present limits) on the west and 
                        Perry
                     on the east. Thus Warrick was limited approximately to the territory now included in
                            
                  Vanderburg, Warrick
                and 
                        Spencer counties
                    . This left the site of 
                        Evansville
                     in the southwestern corner of 
                        Warrick
                    , with the result that the territorial legislature moved the county seat from 
                        Evansville
                     to a site at the mouth of 
                  
                     4
                            History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 37.
                  
                     5 Joseph P. Elliott, A History of 
                                    Evansville
                                 and Vanderburg County, Indiana, 60.
                  
                     6
                            Indiana Magazine of History, March, 1914, 5; History of
                                        
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 37; Joseph P. Elliott, A History of 
                                    Evansville
                                 and 
                                    Vanderburg County
                                
                     , 60. The commisisoner had reported on June 13 before this, and June
                            20, Nathaniel Claypool, county agent, was directed to lay out the town of 
                                Evansville
                            .
                  
                            
                        8 The act of the legislature changing the seat of justice for 
                                    Warrick county
                                 was passed in September, 1814, and was as follows:
                            Whereas, It has been satisfactorily proven to this legislature, that 
                                    Evansville
                                , the seat of justice for the county of 
                                    Warrick
                                , is precisely in the corner of that tract of country which must hereafter
                                form said 
                                    Warrick county
                                 after the proper and necessary divisions shall take effect.
                            1. Be it therefore enacted by the Legislative Council and House of Representatives, and
                                it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That the seat of justice of 
                                    Warrick county
                                 shall be and the same is hereby established and fixed on fractional section
                                number 7, in township number 7 south, on range number 8 west, of the second principal
                                meridian, it being the place at first selected by the commissioners appointed to fix the
                                seat of justice in said county, by an act of the Legislature passed at the last session:
                                Provided, however, That Nathaniel Ewing shall convey to the county of 
                                    Warrick
                                 and for the sole use of said county three hundred acres of land out of the
                                above named fractional section at the price of two dollars per acre, and off the east
                                end of the said fractional section.
                            2. Be it further enacted, That the court of the said 
                                    Warrick county
                                 authorized to do county business, shall cause the said three hundred acres
                                of land described as aforesaid, to be laid out into town lots, and sold agreeably to the
                                provisions of an act entitled "an act for fixing the seats of justice in all
                                new counties hereafter to be laid off," and shall cause the public buildings of
                                said county to be erected thereon, in such places of as is most suitable and will best
                                promote the interest of said county.
                            3. Be it further enacted, That any person or persons, who has or have purchased any lot
                                or lots i nthe town of 
                                    Evansville
                                 of the agent of the said county of 
                                    Warrick
                                , may at his or their election either retain possession of such lots or
                                convey such lots to the said county of 
                                    Warrick
                                , and have the purchase money refunded if paid or their bonds cancelled or
                                given up to them, if such purchase-money be not paid by applying to the said court of 
                                    Warrick county
                                 and it shall be the duty of said court on receiving sufficient titles, and
                                upon application made as aforesaid to cause the same to be refunded and given up
                                accordingly.
                            4. Be it further enacted, That the agent of said 
                                    Warrick county
                                 shall on the second day of March next, or as soon thereafter as convenient,
                                reconvey to Hugh McGary, the tract of land at 
                                    Evansville
                                , which was conveyed to the said 
                                    Warrick county
                                , except so much thereof as may be retained by individuals who purchased
                                lots of the agent for the said county as aforesaid, and the said court of 
                                    Warrick county
                                , if any such lots are retained, shall cause the amount of purchase-money
                                thereof when collected, to be paid to the said Hugh McGary.
                            5. Be it further enacted, That the circuit and other courts hereafter to be held for the
                                said 
                                    Warrick county
                                 shall be held at the house of Daniel Rhodes In said county, until a court
                                house shall be erected on the said three hundred acres of land sufficient for the
                                accommodation of the courts, at which time said court shall adjourn to ihe court house.
                                This act to take effect from and after its passage.
                        
               
                     Little Pigeon creek, later called Darlington. This location was
                    about four miles above Newburg on a tract of land owned by Nathaniel Ewing, which had been donated
                    to the county for that purpose.9 The county seat was retained on the 
                        Ohio
                     on account of its importance as a commercial route.
            At first the sessions of the courts were held in private houses in various parts of the county. At
                    the first meeting of the county board, 
                        Lawrence
                     Younce was given the contract on October 31, 1814, to build a county jail for the sum
                    of $593. The specifications for this building were as follows: "The jail is to
                    be eighteen feet square from outside to outside, to be built with a double wall of well-hewn timber
                    twelve inches square, and to be raised in that manner so as to bring the joints of the outside wall,
                    leaving a space between the two walls six inches to be filled up with rock and gravel. The first
                    story to be seven feet high and the second to be eight. The lower floor to be made with square
                    timber laid double, said timber to be twelve inches square, and done in a workman-like manner. The
                    upper floor to be laid with timber of the same quality as the lower, but one layer of logs
                    completely put together, 
                  
                     9 Will Fortune, 
                        
                                    Warrick
                                 and Its Prominent People, 15.
                  
                     10
                            Historical Atlas of 
                                    Warrick county
                                
                     , 10.
               
                     with a floor of planks two inches thick well spiked down in the
                    logs of the floor, the garret floor to be of logs of nine inch timber, and ceiled with plank one and
                    one-half inches thick and spiked accordingly. The upper story to be divided into two rooms with a
                    partition of timber ten inches thick, well and completely confined in the wall of the said house.
                    The roof to be of shingles of good quality. The rafters, sheathing and weatherboarding to be of good
                    quality. In the lower to be windows nine inches square with double grates of iron bars one inch and
                    a quarter square, put in the wall and well confined, so that the bars of the inside grates shall
                    face the lights of the outside grates. The upper story to have one window eighteen inches square,
                    made in the same manner as the windows in the lower story. Two doors of common size to be of planks
                    three inches thick made double, so that each door shall be six inches thick and well put together in
                    the manner that jail doors ought to be done, hung with large hinges extending across the door, and
                    clasped on the opposite side and riveted, with caps of iron on the head of each rivet. In the second
                    floor of the upper story there is to be a trap door to open on said floor, and confined in a strong
                    manner, as the door in the wall, each door to have a bar of iron confined with a staple at one end,
                    to extend across each door and locked in a staple in the wall of the jail with a good padlock. It is
                    considered that all the timber out of which the said jail is to be built, is to be of good
                        quality."10 This building was completed May 8, 1815 and received by
                    the county board on August 15.
            The next business of the county board was to provide for a county courthouse. The plans for this
                    building were as follows: "Twenty by twenty feet square, of well hewn logs not less than
                    one foot, to be one story and a half high, the upper story to be six feet high. Three windows, large
                    enough to receive eighteen lights of sash, two floors, one staircase, bar, jury box and
                    judge's bench, two doors, shingle roof and one partition above with a door through the
                    same, two windows above of the same size as the windows below, completing the same with locks, bolts
                    and hinges, all in workman-like manner on or before the first day of March, 1816."11 Daniel Deckrow 
                  
                     11
                            History of 
                           Warrick, Spencer
                         and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , 39.
               
                     contracted to construct this building for $290,
                    Ratliff Boon and Adam Young being his securities. The building was completed long before this time
                    and the board received it on December 4, 1815.12
            
            On December 21, 1816, an act was passed (to go into effect February 1, 1817) by the General Assembly
                    of the State of Indiana, creating 
                        Pike County
                     out of 
                  Gibson, Knox
                and 
                        Perry counties
                    . By this act the northern boundary of 
                        Warrick county
                     was moved farther north enlarging the limits of the county,13
                    however the northern boundary was yet south of the present boundary. These boundaries were not
                    retained long and the organization of Vanderburg and 
                        Spencer counties
                     out of 
                        Warrick
                    , February 1, 1818, left the latter county with almost its present boundaries.14
            
            After 
                        Spencer
                     and Vanderburg counties had been formed, the county seat was again left far from the
                    center of the county. The legislature was asked to appoint a commission 
                  
                     12
                            Historical Atlas of 
                                    Warrick county
                                
                     , 1880, 10.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Pike County
                             was formed out of 
                        Knox, Gibson
                      and 
                                Perry counties
                             with the following boundaries: "Beginning at a point on
                                White River where the line dividing sections nine and ten In range
                            nine, town one north of Buckingham's base line strikes the same, thence south with
                            said line to the township line dividing townships three and four south, thence east with
                            said township line until it strikes the range dividing ranges two and three west, thence
                            north with said range until it strikes the line dividing the counties of 
                                Orange
                             and 
                                Gibson
                            , thence with said line until it strikes the line dividing the counties of 
                                Orange
                             and 
                                Gibson
                            , thence with said line until it strikes Lick Creek, thence down said creek to
                                White River, thence down said river with the meanders thereof to
                            the place of beginning." Laws of Indiana, 1816, 208.
                  
                            
                        14 Vanderburg county was formed out of 
                           Warrick, Gibson
                         and 
                                    Posey
                                 with the following boundaries: "Beginning on the Ohio
                                    river where the range line dividing ranges eleven and twelve west,
                                strikes the same, thence north with the said range line to the center of township four,
                                south of Buckingham's base line, thence east through the center of township
                                four, south, to the range line dividing ranges nine and ten west, thence south with said
                                range line dividing township five and six south, thence east to the first section line
                                in the range nine, thence south with said section line to the Ohio
                                river, with the meanders thereof, to the place of beginning."
                            
                        
                                    Spencer county
                                 was formed out of 
                                    Warrick
                                 and 
                                    Perry counties
                                 with the following boundaries: "Beginning on the Ohio
                                    river where the section line passes through the center of the seventh
                                range strikes the same; thence north with the said section line until it strikes Little
                                Pigeon creek; thence up said creek with the meanders thereof, to the township line
                                passing between townships four and five; thence east with said township line to the
                                range line dividing ranges five and six; thence north to the line of 
                                    Pike County
                                , thence east with the line dividing the counties of 
                                    Perry
                                 and 
                                    Pike
                                 to the range line dividing ranges three and four, thence south with said
                                range line until it first strikes Anderson River, thence down said
                                river with the meanders thereof, to the Ohio River, thence down the
                                same to the place of beginning." Special Acts of 1817,
                            22.
                        
               
                     to select a more suitable location. On January 1, 1818, John
                    Tipton, Zachariah Lindley, James B. Slaughter, Roland B. Richards, and Davis Edwards were appointed
                    commissioners to relocate the capital of 
                        Warrick county
                    .15 On March 19, 1818, this commission presented a report as
                    follows: 
                        We, the undersigned commissioners, appointed by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana
                            for the purpose of fixing the seat of justice for the county of 
                                Warrick
                            , do report that we have obtained, by donation, 175 acres of land from the
                            following persons and out of the following tracts of land, to-wit: Sixty acres of land from
                            John Barker, of the west end of the southwest quarter of section 26, in township 5 south, of
                            range 8 west; sixty acres of land from William Berry, of the east end of the southwest
                            quarter of section 26, in township 5 south, range 8 west; thirty acres of land from Richard
                            Stephens, part of the northwest quarter of section 26, township 5 south, of range 8 west, to
                            be laid off in the southwest corner of said quarter-section, immediately north of and
                            adjoining the donation of William Berry, to be sixty poles east and west and to run north to
                            include the said quantity of 
                        
                                    
                              15 Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
                                        Indiana: (Note. Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 1 and 8 relate to the formation of
                                        Vanderburg county).
                                    9. John Tipton, of 
                                            Harrison County
                                        , Zachariah Lindley of 
                                            Orange County
                                        , James B. Slaughter, of 
                                            Harrison County
                                        , Roland B. Richards, of 
                                            Gibson county
                                        , and David Edwards, of 
                                            Posey county
                                        , be, and they are hereby appointed commissioners to fixe the seat
                                        of justice of 
                                            Warrick county
                                        , agreeably to an act entitled "an act for fixing the seat
                                        of justice in all new counties hereafter to be laid off", whose duty
                                        shall be to meet at the house of John Hargrave in the said county on the third
                                        Monday of March next and proceed to fix and establish the permanent seat of
                                        justice for the said county of 
                                            Warrick
                                        , and so soon as the said county seat Is established as aforesaid,
                                        the town of Darlington be, and the same is hereby declared no longer to be the
                                        seat of justice of the said county of 
                                            Warrick
                                        , and the same is hereby removed from Darlington to the place so
                                        established.
                                    10. Be it further enacted, That so soon as the seat of justice is fixed as
                                        aforesaid within the said county of 
                                            Warrick
                                        , it shall be the duty of the board of county commissioners to
                                        proceed to erect the necessary public buildings thereon, and when the said
                                        buildings are, in the opinion of the Circuit Court, sufficient for their
                                        acommodation, the said court shall be adjourned thereto, after which all courts
                                        for said county shall be held at said seat of justice.
                                    11. All persons who have purchased any lot or lots at the town of Darlington
                                        shall be permitted to reconvey the same to the commissioners of 
                                            Warrick county
                                         for the use of the said county, whose duty it shall be to receive
                                        said conveyances and refund to the person or persons so conveying the original
                                        purchase money with interest thereon to be paid out of the funds of the said
                                        county of 
                                            Warrick
                                        ; Provided, also, That It shall be the duty of the commissioners as
                                        aforesaid to pay over unto Nathaniel Ewing the balance yet due on the original
                                        purchase of the tract of land whereon the said town of Darlington is situated
                                        and receive a conveyance from the said Nathaniel Ewing, and dispose of the same
                                        at public auction for the benefit of the said county of 
                                            Warrick
                                        , either for ready money or on such credit as the circuit court of
                                        said county may direct. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of
                                        this act, be, and they are hereby repealed.
                                
                     
                             thirty acres, and twenty-five acres of land of William
                            Barker, fifteen of which lie in the northeast quarter and ten in the northwest quarter of
                            section 35, in township 5 south, of range 8 west, adjoining to and immediately south of the
                            donation of John Barker, Sr., on which above described tracts of land we have agreed to fix
                            the permanent seat of justice for the county of 
                                Warrick
                            , but it is to be understood that William Berry, Sr., is to have one lot,
                            to-wit: The second choice of lots laid off on his donation.16
                  
                    
                
            This commission was signed by John Tipton, Zachariah Lindley, David Edwards and James B. Slaughter.
                    This was the beginning of the town of Boonville.
            Again the matter of public buildings came before the county authorities. At first the courts were
                    held in a log courthouse, built on the public square, but this soon became too small for the
                    transaction of the necessary county business. Then the county commissioners ordered a new brick
                    building thirty-five feet square to be erected, which, however, was never built. A frame building
                    was later agreed upon instead.
            
                    A ditch two feet deep and two feet wide was filled with smoothly hewn logs to a level with the
                        surface of the earth, on which was built a stone wall eighteen inches in height. This
                        constituted the foundation and on it was built the frame proper. However, this building was
                        never completed. It was weather-boarded and roofed, but was neither lathed nor plastered, and
                        thus remained until 1836. While it was capable of holding more people than the log cabin it
                        could hardly be used even during the summer months.17
               
                
            A jail had to be provided for and in October, 1818, the county agent let the contract to John Upham
                    with the following specifications: 
                        The jail is to be eighteen feet square, from outside to outside, to be built with a double
                            wall of well-hewn timber twelve inches square, and to be raised in that manner so as to
                            bring the joints of the outside wall opposite the face of the logs of the inside wall,
                            leaving a space between the two walls of six inches, to be filled up with rock and gravel.
                            The first story is to be seven feet high, and the second eight, etc.18
                  
                    
                
            This building was on the northeast corner of the square, but after some time it became too small and
                    a new brick building was built on Sycamore between Third and Fourth streets.
            
               
                  16
                        Historical Atlas of 
                                Warrick county
                            
                  , 10.
               
                  17 Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and Its Prominent People, 23.
               
                  18 Will Fortune, 
                     
                                Warrick
                             and Its Prominent People, 23.
            
            
            At the end of our period, 1818, 
                        Warrick county
                     had become fairly well established along the lines that she was to make her future
                    development. Within her limits were already formed four townships—
                        Anderson
                    , Boon, Skelton and 
                        Campbell
                    —with 300 voters and a total population of 1,500. The first mail route had
                    already been established in 1817, better roads were being built and the county was gradually being
                    brought into closer touch with the outside world. Although Warrick for the next two decades was
                    probably not to enjoy the rapid progress granted her neighbors, she had played an important role in
                    the early annals of southwestern Indiana and was again to assume an important place among the
                    leading counties of southern Indiana.
         
         
         
            The Populist Party in Indiana
            ERNEST D. STEWART, A. M., Dupont, Ind.
            ORIGIN OF POPULISM
            
            The sudden origin and rapid growth of the People's party was a most striking political
                    phenomenon of the period from 1890 to 1896. Beyond a doubt it was the most important third party in
                    the history of American politics up to that time. In 1892 and 1894 the party attained a strength
                    which practically gave it the balance of power. For this reason politicians regarded it with respect
                    and secretly courted it, though publicly as a matter of political policy they affected to hold it in
                    derision. Many of the People's party's demands have since been enacted into law.
                    This fact more than any other testifies to the sincerity and significance of the movement.
            The chief cause of the sudden appearance of the People's or Populist party in 1890 and 1891,
                    was the economic conditions of the time. From 1873 to 1893, roughly speaking, the country was in the
                    throes of an industrial crisis.1 It was a period marked by falling prices and
                    consequent wide-spread discontent, particularly among the agricultural and laboring classes. These
                    classes constituted to a large extent the debtor element upon whom the burden caused by the
                    declining prices fell most heavily. It is obvious that a debt contracted by a producer when prices
                    are high will have practically increased in amount if paid off when prices are low. A
                    $1,000 debt contracted in $1.10 wheat is equal to $1,290 when paid
                    in 85c wheat, provided the cost of producing the wheat remains the same. The average price of wheat
                    during the five years ending in 1883 was $1.11 a bushel; the average price in the next
                    five years was 81c. In 1885 it was lower in the 
                        United States
                     than it had been in forty years. During the decade from 1881 to 1891 there was a
                    general drop in the prices of corn, cotton, 
                  
                     1 To be distinguished from a monetary crisis. F. W. Taussig, Principles of Economics, 400 seq.
                  
               
                     wool, and live stock estimated at 40 per cent. Between 1884 and
                    1888 there was an increase of 7 per cent in the number of animals received at the 
                        Chicago
                     stock market over the number of animals received in the years from 1880 to 1884; yet
                    the decrease in value was 10% although there had been an increase in population of
                    22% in the same period.1 The price of steers in the 
                        Chicago
                     stock market in 1884 was $6.02 a hundred. In the next five years the price
                    steadily went down until in 1889 it reached $3.95. In the same length of time wheat
                    showed a consistent decline from 95c to 88c, corn 60c to 43c and oats from 36c to 28c. In the 
                        Indianapolis
                     market about 1880 wheat was selling around $1.25. In 1891 it fluctuated
                    between 80c and 90c. In 1890 the prices of wheat and corn due to a short crop were better than for
                    several years, but on the other hand there were times, during the darkest days of 1893 and 1894,
                    when 40c wheat was not uncommon. Under such conditions it was small wonder that thousands became
                    restless and wished for a change.
            Naturally the classes affected were not at a loss in fixing to their own satisfaction the cause of
                    their distress. They felt that the main reason for the prevailing low prices was the scarcity of
                    money. According to the quantitative theory of money, the precious metals are commodities just as
                    meat or cotton or corn, and are governed by the same law of supply and demand. Increase the amount
                    of the commodity and it becomes cheaper, that is, cheaper in comparison with other commodities.
                    Since the value of these goods is measured in terms of money, prices rise. On the other hand, let
                    the amount of money in circulation be curtailed, the supply lessened, and money becomes dearer, that
                    is, a given amount of any commodity will not exchange for as much money as before and the prices
                    fall. Holding to this quantitative theory, thinking people saw in the insufficient supply of money
                    the one great cause of the hard times. It was generally believed that lack of money was the
                    deliberate act of self-seeking men who had cornered the money market in order to enhance the value
                    of the precious metals for their own profit. The act of 1873 
                  
                     1 These facts and figures are taken from W. A. Peffer, The Farmer's Side, 21 seq.
                  
               
                     demonetizing silver1 by which the normal
                    increase in the money supply was prevented, was dubbed the "crime of
                    ‘73" and pointed to as clear evidence of this deep-laid plot. Herein lies the
                    necessary relation between the economic phase of the matter and the political. The remedy for the
                    bad state of affairs into which the country had fallen was to be found in the restoration of silver
                    to an equality with gold through free coinage and the issuance of paper money direct from the
                    government.
            Many persons also found fault with the way in which the government issued money to the people. By the
                    constitution, "Congress shall have the power to coin money and regulate the value
                    thereof". It was charged that although the government coined the money it turned it over to
                    individuals and corporations to trade in. Both old parties, it was said, had deserted the wise
                    doctrine of finance that money should be issued by the people themselves through their agent, the
                    government. Instead they had turned over the business of issuing money and controlling its volume to
                    a few persons who used their power in their own interest. This was the essence of the
                    farmers' quarrel with the national banks.1 The farmer objected to the
                    banks because they appeared to him a money monopoly fostered by the government. He would have them
                    abolished as banks of issue and the money issued directly by the government. The whole national
                    banking system was unjust and an unnecessary tax on the people. For one thing, the banks received
                    double interest,—interest on their bank notes when loaned to the people, and interest on
                    the bonds securing their circulation.
            Upon the question of interest a great many thinking people held well defined convictions. Interest
                    was looked upon as a destroyer. It was pointed out that money loaned for a number of years at
                    compound interest amounted to more than the profits of ordinary industry in the same length of time.
                    That is, interest charges accumulate faster than the savings of labor. The reason, of course, was
                    that interest rates were 
                  
                     1 A full discussion of this act presenting both sides of the question
                            is beyond the scope of this paper.
                  
                     1 Another grievance lay in the fact that by the law of 1864
                            establishing the national banks they were not permitted to issue loans on land.
               
                     too high. The obvious remedy, therefore, was a decrease in the
                    legal rate. The profits arising through the lending of money, it was contended, should not exceed
                    the profits arising through the expenditure of labor. For instance, if a net profit of 2 per cent is
                    the maximum yielded by farming, that industry cannot afford to pay a higher rate of interest than 2
                    per cent.1 Again, it was pointed out that the price of any commodity other than
                    money is constantly changing, unaffected by any arbitrary law. The question then was asked, why are
                    interest rates alone fixed always making necessary the payment by the borrower of the top price?
            One great cause of existing evils in society then, it was felt, was the power of money, a power which
                    could be neutralized by increasing the supply of money, taking from it its interest-bearing function
                    to the extent of bringing its value as a profit-bearing investment to the same level with land and
                    labor. The annual net profit on labor and labor's productions was about 3 per cent.
                    Interest on money should be no higher than that.
            Besides the financial errors there were other evils pointed out as the cause of the people's
                    distress. It was believed that the operations of speculators were responsible to a certain extent
                    for the low prices of farm products. A bill to prevent such alleged speculation, known as the
                    Butterworth Bill, was introduced into congress, but never enacted into law. Not only food
                    speculators but land speculators also were an anathema in the eyes of the farmers. In fact the
                    prevention of speculation in land was the main object of the Farmers' Alliance organized in 
                        Texas
                     in 1875. Alien ownership was especially frowned upon. Another grievance in this
                    connection was the great land monopoly built up by the railroads throughout the south and west by
                    governmental grants.
            Since the discontented elements believed that reform was needed because the functions of government
                    had been taken wanted to see those functions brought more under public control. They believed in
                    greater power for the people, especially in the regulation of these industries partaking of the
                    nature of natural monopolies. From this attitude arose their 
                  
                     1 W. A. Peffer, The Farmer's Side,
                        77.
               
                     demand for the government regulation and even taking over of
                    the telegraph, telephone, and railroad companies. In regard to the railroads, it was felt that the
                    only way for the people to avoid the high rates charged by the railroads due to their
                    over-capitalization was to own and operate them themselves. To the same attitude may also be traced
                    the advocacy in the latter history of the radical movement of the Initiative and Referendum.
            Add to the above mentioned factors the beliefs held by many persons that the two old parties had been
                    insincere in professing friendship for free coinage and poor people in general; that the rich were
                    largely exempt from their share of taxation; that the administration of the government was corrupt
                    and extravagant; and one may form an idea of the elements going to make up the People's
                    party.
            The demands of the Populists, particularly in the early stages of the movement, may be summarized
                    under the three heads of land, transportation, and money.
            
               THE POLITICAL BACKGROUND
            
            The way had been prepared for the People's party by various social and quasi-political
                    organizations among the farmers and laborers dating back as far as 1867. This remarkable activity
                    among the two great laboring classes was a distinguishing characteristic of the two decades and a
                    half beginning with 1870. It was what sociologists would call the awakening of class consciousness.
                    The farmers suddenly realized that they had common aims and purposes, and that through organization
                    they possessed a great amount of power. This feeling found expression in the formation of various
                    Granges, Farmers' Alliances, Industrial Unions, Benefit Associations, Agricultural Wheels,
                    etc., in most of the States of the 
                        Union
                    . Such associations did not always justify the hopes of their founders and in most cases
                    their political influence was negligible. Yet one or two of them came to exercise a decided
                    influence on the course of events. Originally their aims were of two kinds, social and educational,
                    though many of them were perverted from the original purposes.
            
            The Patrons of Husbandry, known also as the Grange, was the earliest of these associations. Organized
                    in 1867 at 
                        Washington, D. C.
                    , it was a secret organization, women were admitted on an equality with men, and it was
                    begun primarily for social purposes. Its scope broadened, however, until many of its demands were
                    enacted into law and were the key to the independent parties of the time. It attacked the growing
                    power of the railroads; with their over-capitalization, and exorbitant rates, and its ideas
                    succeeded so well that it has been called "the mother of the Granger legislation."
                    The two principles of this legislation are that transportation belongs to the people, and that
                    congress has the power to regulate it.1
            
            Next in point of importance, perhaps, was the Farmers' Alliance, organized in 
                        Texas
                     in 1875 to prevent the monopolizing of new lands by speculators. It also had a social
                    aim. After absorbing the Farmers' Union of 
                        Louisiana
                    , and the Agricultural Wheel of 
                        Arkansas
                     it finally became split into two parts, The "Southern" Alliance, and
                    what became known as the "Northern" or National Farmers' Alliance. The
                    latter originated in 
                        Illinois
                     in 1877. Unlike the southern wing it was not secret and was more inclined to
                    participate in politics. "Equal rights to all, special privileges to none" was its
                    motto. The official title of the "Southern" Alliance was The National
                    Farmers' Alliance and Industrial Union.1
            
            Another agricultural organization strong in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     particularly was the Farmers' Mutual Benefit Association, commonly known as
                    the "F. M. B. A.". Its objects were the same as the other bodies mentioned. It was
                    a secret order and admitted only men. Besides these main bodies there were various minor and local
                    "Alliances", "Unions", and "Wheels" in almost
                    every State.
            According to S. J. Buck, an authority on the Granger movement, the origin of the Peoples party is to
                    be found in the 
                        St. Louis
                     platform adopted by the "Southern" Alliance and Knights of Labor in
                        1889.2 This famous platform, the basis of the later Populist demands,
                    deserves detailed treatment. 
                  
                     1 The creation of the Interstate Commerce Commission in 1887 was the
                            direct result of its efforts. W. A. Peffer, The Farmer's Side,
                            150.
                  
                     1 F. M. Drew in Political Science Quarterly for
                            1891, p. 283.
               
                     It is given here with the changes made the next year at the
                    annual meeting of the Alliance at 
                  Ocala, Florida
               : 
                  1. We demand the abolition of national banks. (Also we demand) that the government shall
                            establish sub-treasuries or depositories in the several States (to take their place). The
                            sub-treasuries shall loan money direct to the people at a low rate of interest not to exceed
                            two per cent per annum, on non-perishable farm products, and also upon real estate, with
                            proper limitations upon the quality of land and amount of money. We demand that the amount
                            of the circulating medium be speedily Increased to not less than $50 per capita.
                  2. We demand that congress shall pass such laws as shall effectually prevent the deaing in
                            futures of all agricultural and mechanical productions; preserving a stringent system of
                            procedure in trials as shall secure the prompt conviction, and imposing such penalties as
                            shall secure the most perfect compliance with the law.
                  3. We demand the free and unlimited coinage of silver. We condemn the silver bill recently
                            passed by congress.
                  4. We demand the passage of laws prohibiting the alien ownership of land, and that
                            congress take early steps to devise some plan to obtain all land now owned by aliens and
                            foreign syndicates; and that all lands now held by railroad and other corporations in excess
                            of such as is actually used and needed by them, be reclaimed by the government and held for
                            actual settlers only.
                  5. Believing in the doctrine of "equal rights to all and special privileges to
                            none," we demand that taxation, national or state, shall not be used to build up
                            one interest or class at the expense of another. We believe that the money of the country
                            should be kept as much as possible in the hands of the people, and hence we demand that all
                            revenues, national, State or county, shall be limited to the necessary expenses of the
                            government economically and honestly administered.
                  6. We demand the most rigid, honest and just State and national control of the means of
                            public communication and transportation, and if this control and supervision does not remove
                            the abuse now existing, we demand the government ownership of such means of communication
                            and transportation.
               
                
            At the same time that the 
                        St. Louis
                     platform was being constructed, the "Northern" Alliance adopted a
                    similar one. It is given here also since it, along with the 
                        St. Louis
                     platform proper, served as a model for the leaders in the political campaign of 1890.
            
                    
                  Whereas, the farmers of the 
                            United States
                         are most in number of any order of citizens, and with the other productive classes
                        have freely given 
                     
                        2 S. J. Buck, Granger Movement, 309.
                  
                         of the blood to found and maintain the nation; therefore,
                        be it
                    
                  Resolved, That the public land, the heritage of the people, be reserved for
                        actual settlers only, and that measures be taken to prevent aliens from acquiring titles to
                        lands in the 
                            United States
                         and territories, and that the law be rigidly enforced against all railroad
                        corporations which have not complied with the terms of their contract, by which they have
                        received large grants of land.
                    2. We demand the abolition of the national banking system and that the government issue full
                        legal tender money direct to the people in sufficient volume for the requirements of business.
                    3. We favor the payment of the public debt as rapidly as possible, and we earnestly protest
                        against maintaining any bonds in existence as the basis for the issue of money.
                    4. We favor a graded income tax, and we also favor a tax on real estate mortgages.
                    5. We demand economy and retrenchment as far as is consistent with the interests of the people in
                        every department of the government, and we will look with special disfavor upon any increase of
                        the official salaries of our representatives or government employees.
                    6. We favor such a revision and reduction of the tariff that the taxes may rest as lightly as
                        possible upon productive labor and that its burdens may be upon the luxuries and in a manner
                        that will prevent the accumulation of a 
                            United States
                         treasury surplus.
                    7. The stability of our government depends upon the moral, manual and intellectual training of
                        the young, and we believe in so amending our public school system that the education of our
                        children may inculcate the essential dignity necessary to be a practical help to them in after
                        life.
                    8. Our railroads should be owned and managed by the government, and be run in the interest of the
                        people upon an actual cash basis.
                    9. That the government take steps to secure the payment of the debt of the 
                            Union
                         and Central Pacific railroads and their branches by foreclosure and sale, and any
                        attempt to extend the time again from the payment of the same beyond its present limit will meet
                        with our most emphatic condemnation.
                    10. We are in favor of the early completion of a ship canal connecting the Great
                        Lakes with the Gulf of 
                            Mexico
                        , and a deep water harbor on the southern coast in view of opening trade relations
                        with the Central and South American states, and we are in favor of national aid to a judicious
                        system of experiments to determine the practicability of irrigation.
                    11. We sympathize with the just demands of labor of every grade and recognize that many of the
                        evils from which the farming community suffers oppress universal labor, and that therefore
                        producers should unite in a demand for the reform of unjust systems and the repeal of laws that
                        bear unequally upon the people.
                    12. We favor the Australian system, or some similar system of voting, and ask the enactment of
                        laws regulating the nomination of candidates for public office.
                    
                    13. We are in favor of the diversification of our productive resources.
                    14. We (will) favor and assist to office such candidates only as are thoroughly identified with
                        our principles find we will insist on such legislation as shall make them effective.
                
            In January, 1891, at a session of the national order in 
                        Omaha
                    , further demands were made as follows: the election of President, Vice-President and
                    the 
                        United States
                     Senators by popular vote, restriction of the liquor traffic, woman's suffrage,
                    liberal pensions, passage of the Conger land bill, free and unlimited coinage of silver and the
                    increase of the currency to $50 per capita. The convention pledged itself to demand
                    "that the government allow us to borrow money from the 
                        United States
                     at the same rate of interest as do banks". It was resolved not to affiliate
                    with either the Republican or the Democratic party and a declaration was made in favor of nominating
                    a national ticket in 1892.
            Thus by 1890 the forces of discontent had acquired considerable headway. Through the efforts of the
                    Farmer's Alliance, assisted by the labor element, a set of principles had been drawn up in
                    a combination new to the political history of the country. The way was cleared for a new party.
                    There remained the task of harmonizing the discordant elements and welding them into one
                    organization. We shall see how this was accomplished in the years 1890 and 1891.
            
               THE WORK OF
                    THE ALLIANCE AND
                    THE F. M. B. A.
            Though 1890 was an "off" year in politics it saw the launching and partial success
                    of the new party in several of the western and southern States. In the western States a number of
                    wet years had caused the farmers to increase the kind and area of cultivation to such an extent that
                    when normal dry weather returned there were many failures and bankruptcies.1
                    Especially was this true in 
                        Kansas
                    . This fact largely accounts for the more acute development of the People's
                    party movement in 
                        Kansas
                     and the west generally than in Indiana.2 The latter State, besides
                    being a more eastern and hence a 
                  
                     1 C. R. Fish, Development of American Nationality,
                            475.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 15; Oct. 26, 1890.
               
                     more conservative State, had more uniform and normal crop
                    conditions.
            However, a campaign took place characterized by great activity among the members of the various
                    farmers' organizations during the summer and fall. Barbecues, picnics, and rallies galore
                    were held throughout the State, and some excitement prevailed. Speakers such as L. L. Polk, national
                    president of the Farmers' Alliance, and J. H. Allen, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , a local worker, addressed large audiences. In many of the meetings laborers and
                    farmers participated on common ground.1 There was a great deal of talk of
                    uniting the Knights of Labor and the Alliance, at least to the extent of identical platforms.2 Steps were taken toward establishing a radical press. On November 23, a
                    meeting was held at 
                        Newcastle
                     to consider the establishment of an official organ for the Alliance. Three thousand
                    subscribers were pledged then and there.3 In many counties the farmers'
                    organization, sometimes acting together, sometimes separately, placed independent tickets in the
                    field. June 7 the Farmers' Mutual Benefit Association and The Knights of Labor held a joint
                    convention at 
                  Washington, Daviess
                            county
               , and nominated a full county ticket. The candidates were about
                    equally divided between Democrats and Republicans.4 At 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on September 11 the Farmers' Alliance and various labor organizations decided
                    to put forth an independent county ticket. The Democrats were said to be making efforts to prevent
                    this action.5 In 
                        Wells county
                     the F. M. B. A., acting alone, passed resolutions favoring the nomination of a county
                    ticket. At 
                        Vincennes
                     it was decided not to put an independent ticket in the field.6
                    These political moves are typical of what was going on in a great or less degree all over the State.
            The economic phase of the situation is illustrated by the action taken in several localities against
                    merchants and middlemen in general. One reads of a secret meeting of the farmers 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 2, 1890.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 26, 1890.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 24, 1890.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 8, 1890.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 12, 1890.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 10, 1890.
               
                     held at 
                        Martinsville
                    , December 11, for the purpose of organizing a store "run according to their
                    own dictation".1 The Farmers' Alliance of 
                        Vigo county
                     and the people of 
                        Terre Haute
                     decided to boycott a 
                        Chicago
                     firm selling dressed meat in order to preserve the home market for home producers.2 At 
                        Tipton
                    , the Alliance took action toward the owning of an elevator. Rumor had it that an
                    Alliance store was to be started by the first of January.3 Many of these
                    projects of course never materialized, but they show the attitude of mind of the agriculturalists
                    and their ideas of the proper remedies for the amelioration of their condition.
            The attitude of the two old parties toward the doings of the farmers is significant. The Republicans
                    probably were safer against the effects of the new ferment than the Democrats. The Alliance was
                    strong in the Democratic counties of the State and in such localities was encouraged by the
                    Republican leaders.4 The Democratic party, posing as the more progressive party
                    and the especial friend of the farmer, found itself in somewhat of a dilemma as to just what
                    attitude to take. It compromised by maintaining that all the good things in the farmers'
                    demands were already the cardinal principles of the Democratic party, while the points which were
                    not found in the Democratic platform were impractical and visionary. Throughout the period of the
                    People's party the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, the Republican organ, held to a policy of serene contempt toward the
                    fledgling. The Sentinel, the Democratic organ, was more gracious.
            Official action looking toward greater solidarity was taken on June 19 on the occasion of the meeting
                    of the Farmers' Convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               THE
                    FARMERS' CONVENTION
                    ON JUNE 19, 1890
            On June 19, 1890, there met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     representatives from the Farmers' Alliance, the F. M. B. A., the Grange, and
                    the other farmers' organizations of the State. 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 15, 1890.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 15, 1890.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 9, 1890.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 5, 1890.
               
                     The meeting was called for the ostensible purpose of founding a
                    State league in the interests of agriculturists. It met in the lecture room of the State Board of
                    Agriculture. The call for the meeting was sent out by J. B. Kingsbury, editor of the Indiana Farmer.
            
            Though the aim of the gathering was ostensibly the formation of a State league, the political phase
                    of the situation was paramount. However, the body assumed an equivocal and uncertain attitude on the
                    question of taking independent political action. The general sentiment seemed to be that if
                    political action were taken at all it should be only local. As long as possible the farmers were to
                    work within the old parties, endeavoring to secure the nomination of men who would carry out their
                    ideas. But as one of the resolutions declared: 
                        When the old parties fail to nominate men suitable to the farmers, we deem it our duty, and
                            pledge ourselves to nominate such independently, and will strive by all honorable means to
                            secure their election.
                    
                
            On the other hand we have the words of one of the leaders: 
                        It is not our purpose to tear down, but to promote our own interest. We therefore let
                            politics alone just so far as we are able. The farmers' interests are local, as a
                            rule, and do not interfere with the general principles of the parties. We are a unit on
                            wanting State and county taxes cut in two, but tariff questions do not bother us. We believe
                            with our parties on that subject.1
                  
                    
                
            (At no time in the history of the People's party did the question of the tariff ever figure
                    prominently.)
            A number of resolutions were concurred in by the assembly strongly suggestive of the later pure
                    Populist platforms. Class legislation, monopolies and trusts were denounced. The direct election of 
                        United States
                     senators was favored and an unsuccessful attempt was made to amend the resolution by
                    including the President and Vice-President. Another resolution called for the reduction of fees and
                    salaries. In regard to the money, question a free coinage bill which was being discussed in the
                    Senate was enthusiastically endorsed. It was demanded also that the legal rate of interest be
                    proportionate to the rate earned by capital when invested in agriculture and other productive 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 20, 1890.
               
                     industries. The passage of the Butterworth bill1 was favored. Also the exemption of debtors from taxation to the amount of their bona-fide
                    indebtedness was called for. In regard to local matters the convention concurred in resolutions to
                    the effect that school funds should be appropriated according to the enumeration of pupils, that
                    public printing should be let to the lowest bidder and that the political parties place men on their
                    tickets in sympathy with the farmers' interests, the farmers to give them their support
                    regardless of past political ties. When suitable men are not put on the tickets the farmers to take
                    independent action.
            In addition the following resolutions were reported by the resolutions committee but recommended to
                    be laid on the table: 
                        That all county and township offices be let to the lowest bidder; that no farmer vote for one
                            who had been a candidate in the old parties; that women stand on the same legal footing with
                            men as executors and in property interests; that county commissioners be restricted in their
                            powers of constructing public buildings by a vote of the people; and that the government
                            should lend its credit to farmers on land at two per cent.
                    
                
            This latter resolution provoked discussion in which it was finally decided that such a provision
                    would be impracticable since "land sharks would buy up all the rocky and swamp land and
                    palm it off on the government by fraud".1
            
            The liquor question came up when a member of the resolutions committee introduced a plank expressing
                    the views of the Prohibitionists. The Prohibitionist party at this time was third in importance
                    among the parties of the State. Many feared that the introduction of such a resolution would have
                    the effect of identifyng the farmers' movement with the Prohibitionists and thus lead to
                    its downfall. After a lively discussion a harmless compromise resolution was adopted and the affair
                    closed.
            
               
                  1 This bill was aimed against speculation in farm products. It proposed to
                        make illegal all sales for future deliveries except in the case of the farmer who was to be
                        allowed to sell his ungrown crop.
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, June 20, 1890.
            
            
            
               THE FIRST STATE CONVENTION
            
            The work of the Farmers' convention represented political activity but it was activity
                    within the old parties. The first definite action taken in Indiana toward the fusion of the various
                    radical elements into an independent political organization was when representatives from the
                    Greenbackers, the 
                        Union
                     Labor Party, the Farmers' Alliance, the Grangers, the F. M. B. A., and other
                    bodies met in the Criminal courtroom at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on September 23, 1890, for the express purpose of founding a third party.2 It may be considered Indiana's first State Convention of the
                    People's party.1 The gathering was respectable, consisting of about one
                    hundred delegates representing all the congressional districts in the State except the First and
                    Third. It was estimated that probably one-third of the counties of the State were represented. John
                    C. Maugherman of 
                        South Bend
                     was elected temporary chairman and J. Y. Demaree temporary secretary. Later all
                    officers were made permanent.2
            
            In starting the organization of the party one of the first cares was in regard to a State central
                    committee. This body was elected and consisted of one member from each congressional district with
                    J. H. Allen of 
                        Vigo county
                     as chairman.3
            
            The platform, presented by M. C. Rankin of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , chairman of the committee on resolutions, dealt mostly with State issues. The State
                    debt was deplored and greater economy and lower taxes urged. A just and equitable redistricting of
                    the State was demanded and it was urged that a check be placed on the power of county commissioners
                    to heap debt on the corporations under their control. A non-partisan, competent, and permanent
                    management of the State charitable and penal institutions was demanded and disapproval expressed of
                    the existing contract labor law. Furthermore, in the payment of wages to laborers by employers, no
                    property 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Sept. 23, 1890.
                  
                     1 The Republican State convention of 1890 was held on June 10, the
                            Democratic on August 28.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Sept. 23, 1890.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Sept. 23, 1890.
               
                     was to be exempt. Child labor was vigorously condemned. The
                    assembly declared against the voting of taxes on the people of counties, townships and
                    municipalities for the purpose of raising money to be handed over to corporations for the building
                    of railroads.1 In regard to the reward of the old soldiers, a subject dealt with
                    freely by both the old parties, the convention declared for per diem service pensions, for the 
                        Union
                     ex-prisoner of war pension bill and for the payment of pensions from the date of
                    disability instead of from the date of application.2
            
            The only utterance in the platform on the money question was in connection with the demands
                    concerning pensions. The plank ran as follows: 
                        We favor the Issuing of a full legal-tender paper money to meet the disbursements under these
                            bills (pension bills), thereby enabling the government to maintain its honor and pay its
                            debts, and at the same time aid the people by giving them a sufficient volume of money to
                            meet the demand of the legitimate trade interests of the country. Our government paid the
                            soldiers in paper money during the war and the veterans will gladly accept It in payment of
                            their just demands.
                    
                
            Among the lesser resolutions was one recommending that the inspector of mines be a practical miner.
                    Another, that the State furnish school books at cost to the townships, these in turn to distribute
                    them free to the pupils.
            The Farmers' Convention held on June 19, 1890, was endorsed.
            In the course of its proceedings the convention was addressed by Capt. Thomas Wadsworth of 
                        Daviess county
                    , and Moses Hull, of 
                        Chicago
                    , one of the original Greenbackers of the country.1
            
            Following is the ticket nominated by the convention: 
                        Secretary of State, Leroy Templetou, of 
                                Benton county
                            ; Auditor of State, James M. Johnson, of 
                                Daviess county
                            ; Treasurer of State, Isaiah N. Miller, of 
                                Grant County
                            ; Attorney-General, William Patterson ("Green-back Billy"),
                                
                        
                           1 This refers to the practice of raising a lump sum by
                                    taxation and handing it over practically as a free gift to railroads, factories,
                                    etc., in the course of construction by the localities directly benefited by these
                                    enterprises. The farmers seem to have objected to this practice only in connection
                                    with railroads.
                        
                           2
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal, Sept. 24, 1890.
                     
                             of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Clerk of Supreme Court, Benjamin F. Street, of 
                                Gibson county
                            ; Superintendent of Public Instruction, William Whitney of 
                                Delaware
                             countw (a member of the Knights of Labor); State Geologist, Edward S. Pope, of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Chief Statistician, John W. Shockley, of 
                                Henry County
                            .
                    
                
            No nomination was made for the office of judge of the Supreme court, as no suitable man could be
                    found who resided in the judicial district. Later a nominee was found in the person of John S.
                        Bender.2 Another change was made in the ticket by the substitution of the
                    name of Martin V. Kindle for that of Leroy Templeton. After his nomination on the State ticket,
                    Templeton was named for congress by the Democrats and Independents of the Ninth district and
                    withdrew his name in order to make the congressional race.3 It was said that all
                    of the candidates on the ticket were farmers.1
            
            The political organization which thus entered the field was christened "The
                    People's Party."2 The plow and hammer were adopted as the
                    party emblem.
            It was charged by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, the Republican organ, that Democratic politicians were present in the
                    convention who made strenuous efforts to get their candididates endorsed.3 There
                    is no doubt but that from the start the members of the convention were afraid their organization
                    would be dominated by the Democrats.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, the Democratic organ, on the other hand, had this to say: 
                        The whole affair was manipulated by Republican managers. Those who participated are being
                            used only to pull the monopoly chestnuts out of the fire.4
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Sept. 23, 1890.
               
                  2 Appleton's Annual Encyclopedia for 1890, p.
                        440.
               
                  3
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Sept. 30, 1890. In the ensuing campaign Templeton received 19,494 votes
                        to his successful opponent's 20,752, losing by only 1,258 votes. Report of Secretary of
                        State, Documentary Journal, 1890, Part I.
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Sept. 23, 1890.
               
                  2 Some of the names proposed before the final one was adopted were
                        "The Farmers' and Laborers' National Party", "The
                        People's Industrial Party", and "The Independent Union
                        Party."
               
                  3
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Sept. 24, 1890.
               
                  4
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 24, 1890.
            
            
            Although only a comparatively short time intervened between the time of their convention and the date
                    of the election, the farmers made a vigorous campaign. The results of the election showed that they
                    had developed unexpected, though still insignificant strength. Martin V. Kindle, the candidate for
                    Secretary of State, polled 17,354 votes and the vote for the other candidates on the ticket ran
                    approximately at that figure. The Prohibitionists, the only other minor party in the field, polled
                    barely twelve thousand.1
            
            AFTER
                    THE CAMPAIGN
            
            Thus the Populist State campaign of 1890 closed. An indication of what reform measures would be
                    expected of the next legislature is given by the resolution adopted at the annual meeting of the
                    State Farmers' Alliance on November 20. On that date the following resolutions were
                    adopted: That State and county officers be paid salaries in proportion to the business transacted
                    and in accordance with salaries paid for similar services in ordinary business; that debtors be
                    allowed exemption from bona-fide indebtedness; that free gravel roads be placed under the control of
                    district supervisors; that teachers take and report to the trustee the enumeration of their
                    respective districts; that the law giving the county commissioners the power to hold special
                    elections for voting aid to railroads and corporations be repealed; that no one living in an
                    incorporated town be eligible to the office of township trustee.2
            
            On the following day, November 21, a set of resolutions, more general in their scope and more
                    outspoken, was adopted. These resolutions declared in favor of bimetallism and free silver, the
                    abolition of national banks, and the issuance of greenbacks, limited government control of
                    transportation and communication, and the abolition of gambling in food products. They also demanded
                    the revision of the tax laws, and just pensions. The Australian secret ballot,1
                    and the 
                  
                     1 From Report of the Secretary of State, Documentary
                                Journal, 1890, Part I.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 21, 1890.
                  
                     1 The secret ballot was first put into operation in Indiana in
                        1890.
               
                     graded income tax were endorsed. The liquor traffic was
                    denounced.
            Further work of the convention included the adoption of what was known as the 
                        North Carolina
                     business-agency plan by which the members were to purchase their agricultural machinery
                    and other supplies through a State agent. The Alliance Advocate published in 
                        Indianapolis
                     by J. C. Kingsbury, was made the official organ of the organization.2
            
            How closely allied were the demands of the various farmers' organizations is shown by the
                    manifesto issued at a meeting of the F. M. B. A. at Peru, December 17. It asserted that fees in
                    county offices were exorbitant, that the legal rate of interest was too high, and that foreign
                    corporations were drawing vast incomes from the State without taxation. It demanded that assessors
                    list property at its true cash value; that official fees be reduced 10 per cent; that taxes from
                    toll roads, railroads and pipe lines be divided among the various school districts; that a law be
                    enacted permitting debtors to deduct their bona-fide indebtedness from their assessments; that
                    mortgages not reported to the assessor become null and void in the county where recorded; and that
                    county officials hold office for four years only and be ineligible for re-election.1
            
            Thus the year 1890 saw the attempt of the farmers of the State to unite for independent political
                    action, without destroying at the same time the different farmers' organizations. The next
                    four years were to see the gradual growth of the new party until it reached its zenith as an
                    independent force in politics.
            
               THE YEAR OF ORGANIZATION
            
            The chief characteristic of the year 1891, so far as the People's party was concerned, was
                    the development and perfecting of the party organization.
            The picnics, barbecues, and speech-making of the previous 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 22, 1890.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 18, 1890.
               
                     year continued.1 The F. M. B. A. and the
                    Alliance in their meetings throughout the State continued their denunciation of alleged evils in the
                    State and local governments. On January 16 the representatives of the F. M. B. A. held a meeting at 
                        Decatur
                     and demanded reform in the Democratic management of the county.2 In
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of January 28, 1891, one learns that at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     lodge No. 310 of the Alliance adopted resolutions in regard to fees, salaries,
                    mortgages and terms of office. The question of mortgaged lands was particularly prominent. The
                    demand was reiterated that the mortgagee be exempt from taxation to the amount of his mortgage. The
                    lodge also declared in favor of the principle that notes not listed for taxation be
                        non-collectible.1 At 
                        Saline City
                    , near 
                        Brazil
                    , the local F. M. B. A. passed resolutions condemning the liquor traffic. The meeting
                    was secret and other business was not made public, but it was believed that they would place a
                    county and State ticket in the field in the next campaign.2 At Peru in December
                    there was a discussion over the starting of a new Alliance paper. It was said that a paper was to be
                    started at 
                        Portland
                     the following week.3
            
            In other localities where the members of various farmers' lodges felt that the integrity of
                    their organization was at stake, political action was deplored. For instance at
                            
                  Charleston, Clark
                            County
               , the F. M. B. A. strongly denounced the politics in the
                        organization.4 At a meeting at the Hotel English in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , February 2, 1891, with delegates present from Indiana, 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               ,
                    and 
                        Illinois
                     Alliances it was brought out that the members had no wish to form a third party. Their
                    organizations, they said, were not political.5
            
            Two external forces came in at this time to influence the growth of the People's party, the
                    one adversely, the other 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 24, 28; Sept. 28, 1891.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 17, 1891.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Jan. 28, 1891.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 15, 1891.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 12, 1891.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 17, 1891.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 5, 1891.
               
                     favorably. These two forces were the crop conditions of 1891
                    and the action of the Democratic legislature.
            The year 1891 was one of unusual agricultural productivity. The corn crop of the State was
                    125,092,649 bushels, an increase of 43% over the yield of the previous year, and the
                    largest crop with the exception of that of 1888 in a decade. The yield of wheat was 58,305,796
                    bushels, more than double the amount raised in 1890, and the largest crop since 1881. The production
                    of hay, barley, rye, and oats was normal. The potato crop also was a large one, the largest since
                        1885.1 This prosperity naturally checked the reforming zeal of the radicals,
                    though not to any great extent.
            The tax law of 1891 passed by a Democratic legislature, revised and reconstructed the existing
                    methods of taxation in such a way as greatly to increase the burdens of the taxpayer.2 From the point of view of the agriculturists, a weakness of the law was said to consist
                    in the fact that the farmer had to pay a tax upon value represented while the money lender got
                    credit for his indebtedness. In other words, the farmers were taxed upon what they owed while the
                    other classes were not.1 This increase of their taxes undoubtedly strengthened
                    many in the People's party doctrine. It was said by many and hoped by the Republicans that
                    the farmers would be greatly strengthened in their opposition to the Democrats because of the
                    latters' passage of this law doubling assessments instead of a reform fee and salary bill,
                    a particular pet of the Populists.2
            
            AMALGAMATION AND
               ORGANIZATION
            
            Up to this time the action of the People's party had been a matter of State and local
                    concern. The first step toward the fusion of the various elements into a national organization 
                  
                     1 These figures are taken from the Forty-first Annual
                                Report of the State Board of Agriculture for 1890, pp. 279–293.
                  
                     2 The main features of this law were four: (1) A tax of 6c on each
                            $100 worth of property for the Benevolent Institution Fund in addition to the 12c
                            tax rate. (2) A thorough revision and reconstruction of the law regulating assessment and
                            collection of taxes. (3) The creation of a permanent Board of State Tax Commissioners. (4)
                            Special provision for the taxation of express, Pullman, telegraph and telephone companies.
                                Appleton's Annual Encyclopaedia, 1891, p. 379.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 30, 1892.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 29, 1891.
               
                     was the National Union Conference held at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , May 19, 1891.3
                    
                        Kansas
                    , Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     naturally sent 
                  
                            
                        3 This National Union Conference, as it was called, was a gathering
                                of all the politico-reform forces of the country for the purpose of founding a third
                                party. The germ of the meeting was the agitation carried on by the 
                                    Kansas
                                 delegates at the Ocala conference of the Farmers' Alliance Dec. 4,
                                1890, for a meeting at 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 early in the year 1891 of all the alliances and industrial unions in the
                                country who stood by the 
                                    St. Louis
                                 platform to consider a third party movement. It was recommended at that
                                time that the name of the party be called the "National Union Party of
                                America" (
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, Dec. 5, 1890). At the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 meeting in the delegation from 
                                    Kansas
                                 seven different organizations were represented. They were: The
                                Farmers' Alliance, The Citizens' Alliance, The People's
                                party, The Knights of Labor, The National Industrial Alliance, The Anti-Monopoly party,
                                The Single-Tax Men (
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Sentinel, May 19, 1891). There were almost 1500 delegates present
                                representing thirty-two states in the 
                                    Union
                                 and two territories (W. A. Peffer, The Farmer's
                                Side, p. 160). However, the apathy of the South was noticeable and their delegates
                                were few.
                            Senator W. A. Peffer, of 
                                    Kansas
                                , was chosen permanent chairman of the convention, and Ignatius Donnelly, of 
                                    Minnesota
                                , chairman of the committee on resolutions. Other prominent personalities in
                                the convention were, T. V. Powderly, head of the Knights of Labor; General J. B. Weaver,
                                a veteran Green-backer and the party's destined candidate for president;
                                "Sockless" Jerry Simpson, of 
                                    Kansas
                                ; George W. Washburn, President of the 
                                    New England
                                 Industrial Alliance; Mason Greene, of Boston, the personal representative
                                of Edward Bellamy and his theories; Captain C. A. Powers, of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , and Miss Helen M. Gougar, also of Indiana.
                            The work of the convention fell mainly under two heads, the selection of a national
                                committee and the drafting of a set of resolutions. H. E. Taubeneck, of 
                                    Illinois
                                , was elected chairman of the national executive committee, which consisted
                                of three members, from each state. (
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, May 31, 1891.)
                            In a platform dealing with numerous and varied subjects, the chief planks were the
                                following: (1) "Crystallization of the political reform forces of the country
                                into the ‘People's party of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America.’" (2) Endorsement of the platforms adopted
                                at 
                                    St. Louis
                                 in 1889; at 
                           Ocala, Florida
                        , in 1890; and at
                                        
                           Omaha, Nebraska
                        , in 1891. The demands set forth in the
                                above mentioned platforms were then summarized: (a) The abolition of national banks as
                                banks of issue, and the issuance by the government of legal tender treasury notes to
                                take the place of bank notes, the treasury notes to be loaned at not more than
                                2% on farm products according to the sub-treasury plan, (b) Free and
                                unlimited coinage of silver. (c) No alien ownership of land, (d) Just and equal
                                taxation, (e) Economical administration of governmental revenues, (f) Imposition of a
                                graduated income tax. (g) Government control of transportation and communication, In
                                case of control proving ineffectual, complete ownership, (h) The election by direct vote
                                of the people of the President, Vice-President, and 
                                    United States
                                 senators.
                            In addition to the above a number of resolutions, not a part of the platform, were
                                presented: That universal suffrage be recommended to the consideration of the States and
                                Territories; that justice be done to ex-soldiers who were paid off in depreciated
                                currency at the end of the war, by the issuance of legal tender treasury notes
                                sufficient to make the pay of old soldiers on a par with coin; that the principle of the
                                eight-hour day apply to all corporations employing labor.
                            In this way, by the naming of a national executive committee and the adoption of a set of
                                resolutions, the People's party was launched into the sea of national
                            politics.
                        
               
                     the largest delegations to this convention, 
                        Kansas
                     leading with 409. Indiana came second with 154 delegates. While Kansas undoubtedly
                    dominated the convention, Indiana's influence was far from negligible. In the election of
                    Mort C. Rankin, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , who had long been identified with the farmers' movement, as treasurer of the
                    national executive committee, Indiana was represented in a responsible position. The three national
                    committeemen from Indiana were C. A. Powers, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; Leroy Templeton, of Boswell, and J. D. Comstock.1
            
            Organization of the party more than what already existed was effected within the State at a meeting
                    held July 30, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . About 150 memebrs of the party attended, representing forty-seven counties and twelve
                    out of the thirteen congressional districts.2 The call was issued by J. H.
                    Allen, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , chairman of the State central committee, organized at the State convention held the
                    previous year. T. W. Force, of Shoals, president of the State Alliance, presided. The plan of
                    organization contemplated a general sub-State committee composed of three men from each county, a
                    State executive committee to be selected by this larger State committee and a State central
                    committee of three men from each congressional district. It will be noticed that this is a triple
                    organization throughout compared with the usual plan. The duties of the members of the sub-State
                    committee were to look after the interests of the party in their respective localities. Leroy
                    Templeton, of 
                        Benton county
                    , was elected chairman of the State central committee, Dr. H. W. Taylor, of 
                        Anderson
                    , secretary, and Joshua Strange, of Arcana, 
                        Grant County
                    , treasurer.1
            
            Before the conference adjourned arrangements were made for the removal of the American
                        Nonconformist, a People's party paper, edited by L. Vincent, from
                            
                  Winfield, Kansas
               , to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This was on condition that 5,000 paid subscribers be guaranteed. The Nonconformist, thus introduced into Indiana, became later the most important Populist
                    organ of the State.
            
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, May 21, 1891.
               
                  2
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, July 31, 1891.
            
            
            In November a further step was taken toward harmonizing the various farmer elements into a third
                    party on the occasion of the meeting of the Supreme Council of the Farmers' Alliance at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Animated by a common antipathy to 
                        Cleveland
                    , delegates were present from all parts of the country. Although the convention thus
                    partook of a national, not a State character, the fact that 
                        Indianapolis
                     was chosen as a city in a favorable section possesses some significance. Eight
                    industrial organizations were represented. The sounding of the Alliance as to its attitude toward
                    the formation of a third party was the real purpose of the meeting.1
            
            The events which took place on November 16 to 20 were varied and complicated. Besides the Alliance
                    council, including the F. M. B. A., the Grange, and other farmers' organizations, two other
                    bodies, whose deliberations were interwoven with those of the Alliance, met at the same time. These
                    two bodies were the executive committee of the People's party and the executive committee
                    of what was known as the Confederated Industrial Union. This latter organization had its origin at
                    the Ocala meeting when the Alliance invited farmer and labor organizations to send delegates to a
                    conference at 
                        Washington, D. C.
                     At this 
                        Washington
                     conference an executive committee consisting of five members from each of six
                    organizations was appointed which met November 19 in 
                        Indianapolis
                     three days after the first coming together of the Supreme Council. Its functions were
                    to decide on the place of meeting and the apportionment of delegates to a national convention for
                    the nomination of President and Vice-President to be held on February 22, 1892.2
            
            The executive committee of the People's party was on hand throughout the deliberations of
                    the council working in the interests of the third party movement. Throughout the deliberations the
                    case of a third party was a strong one. Most 
                  
                     1 At the present writing (1917) Mr. Strange resides at 
                                Marion
                            . He is connected officially with Farmers' National Congress, U. S. A.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 16, 1891.
                  
                     2 The plans in regard to this meeting were afterwards changed. Because
                            of the decision to hold the nominating convention later in the year the committee meeting in
                            February decided merely on the general plan of representation. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 20, 1891.
               
                     of the delegates shared the view that only by the formation of
                    a third party could the objects of the Alliance be achieved. It had tried to get the old parties to
                    take up its ideas and failed. Independent political action was the next logical step. Practically
                    all of the opposition to a third party came from the Southern delegates. In their view the
                    dissolution of the Alliance in case it entered the political field was inevitable.1
            
            It was freely alleged, in view of the busy and excited meetings at the Hotel English, that the
                    executive committee of the People's party was scheming to swallow both the F. M. B. A. and
                    the Alliance.2 In the deliberations of the Alliance proper, the attitude toward
                    a third party was shown by the fact that when Jerry Simpson, of 
                        Kansas
                    —"Sockless" Jerry, one of the best informed leaders in the
                    movement—introduced a resolution instructing Alliance congressmen to keep out of party
                    caucuses at 
                        Washington
                     during the winter, the motion was carried with enthusiasm. The Alliance Congressmen at
                    this time numbered fourteen—thirteen representatives and one senater.1
            
            It would be beyond the scope of this paper to give a detailed account of the proceedings of the
                    various committees, councils, and other organizations. It will be sufficient to give merely the
                    results of the convention.
            In the first place the definite inauguration of a third party backed by various farmers'
                    organizations was made an assured fact. No doubt existed anywhere that a ticket would not be gotten
                    out before June, 1892, with Leonidas L. Polk, of 
                        North Carolina
                    , national president of the Alliance, heading it.2 The candidates of
                    the next year were to enter the field with the pledged support of the Farmers' Alliance,
                    the Industrial Union, and the F. M. B. A. In the second place, the work of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention brought about a split between the anti-sub-treasury wing and the main body
                    of the Alliance, resulting in the issuance of a call by the bolters for a new Alliance to be
                    organized at 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               , in December. The sub-treasury wing amalgamated with the
                    Peopie's 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 16, 1891.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 18, 1891.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 20, 1890.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 21. 1891.
               
                     party, thus committing that party to the land loan and
                    farmers' credit plan.3 Furthermore, the meeting brought about practical
                    amalgamation between the Farmers' Alliance and Industrial Union and the F. M. B. A., the
                    two most powerful agrarian organizations.1 The latter order toward the close of
                    the conference revised its constitution before adjourning. Among other changes the sub-treasury
                    plank in its platform was modified so as to have the same purport as a similar plank in the Ocala
                    platform. The general sentiment seemed to be against fusion with the third party until after the
                    February meeting.2
            
            
               THE HIGH-WATEE MARK OF POPULISM—THE YEAR 1892
            With definiteness and a background given to a national People's party by the three great
                    conventions, viz.: The Confederated Industrial Conference at 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1889; the National Union Conference at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in May, 1891, and the Supreme Council of the Alliance at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in November, 1891, the members of the party in Indiana began the campaign of 1892 with
                    confidence and enthusiasm. The Statewide activity of the "Populists," as they had
                    now come to be called, was of much the same nature as in 1890 and 1891. However, there were the
                    additional factors of greater solidarity of organization and of the excitement of a presidential
                    year. The chronic Prohibition ailment was still giving trouble. In most of the counties there was no
                    hope of the two parties coming together. In a few instances, however, fusion occurred, as at 
                        Marion
                    , where it was reported that the respective leaders of the People's and
                    Prohibition parties agreed to unite their forces in the county campaign.1 At 
                        Vincennes
                     in April a mass convention was held by members of the People's party for the
                    nomination of a city ticket. It was said that a majority of the convention had been Democrats.2 At a mass convention held at 
                        Newcastle
                    , May 21, for the nomination of 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 21, 1891.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 22, 1891.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 21, 1891.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 28, 1892.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 5, 1892.
               
                     county officers, a full ticket was put out, consisting of
                    nominees from the Democratic and Prohibitionist parties and the Alliance.3 In 
                        Jasper County
                     a county ticket was nominated consisting mostly, it was said, of Democrats.
            The State convention of the People's party met on May 27 at 
                  Masonic Hall, Indianapolis
               .4 At this time the party had
                    organizations in two-thirds of the counties. Seventy-two counties of the State had representatives
                    in the convention. Samuel W. Williams, of 
                        Knox county
                    , "Telephone Sam," so named because of his being the author of a
                    telephone law passed by the legislature of 1885,—was elected temporary chairman, and W.
                    W. Prigg,1 of 
                        Henry County
                    , was made secretary.
            The preamble of the platform read as follows: 
                        In view of the great social, industrial and economic revolution now dawning on the civilized
                            world and the new and living issues confronting the American people, and recognizing that in
                            all ages and in all civilizations the great middle class has been the bulwark of civil
                            liberty … the People's party believes the time has arrived for a
                            crystallization of the reform forces of our State. Therefore, we invite all persons who are
                            desirous of bettering their condition to join with us in eradicating the evils which are now
                            so rapidly destroying the body politic.
                    
                
            On the subject of finance the platform continued: 
                        We demand a national currency, safe, sound and flexible, issued by the general government
                            only, a full legal tender for all debts, public and private, and that without the use of
                            banking corporations; a just, equitable and efficient means of distributing it direct to the
                            people at a tax not to exceed two per cent, to be provided as set forth in the sub-treasury
                            plan of the Farmers' Alliance, or some better system; also by payments in discharge
                            of its obligations for public improvements.
                    
                
            In the advocacy of the sub-treasury plan is seen the influence of the meeting of the Supreme Council
                    of the Farmers' Alliance at 
                        Indianapolis
                     the previous November. Although 
                  
                     3 According to the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, four of these candidates were Democrats, three were
                            Prohibitionists and three Alliance men. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 22, 1892.
                  
                     4 At the same time there was a meeting of the judicial and executive
                            boards of the Farmers' Alliance, no doubt for the purpose of coming to some
                            understanding with the third party. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 27, 1892.
                  
                     1 Besides at present (1917) at St. Mary's, 
                                Ohio
                            .
               
                     formulated at the Ocala convention in 1890, the plan did not
                    figure in the farmers' demands in their two State conventions in 1890.
            The sub-treasury plan was one of the most striking and ill-fated of the farmers' demands. It
                    is said to have been originated by C. A. Macune, the editor of the National Economist.1 Broadly speaking, it is an extension of the familiar principle of borrowing money on
                    warehouse receipts. The plan provided for the storing of grain in local government warehouses, the
                    produce to be used as security for the loaning of paper money by the government to the farmers at a
                    low rate of interest. One or two per cent, was the usual rate advocated. The money was to be loaned
                    up to 80 per cent, of the market value of the grain.
            The purpose of the plan as set forth by its advocates was to provide a safe, certain, and efficient
                    method of giving a flexibility to the volume of money which would exactly equal the flexibility or
                    variations in demand. That is, it was hoped that the plan if put into operation would secure a
                    uniformity of price on the basis of the high prices prevailing during the summer months. The theory
                    was that as the products of the farm were put on the market, instead of money being absorbed from
                    other channels to move them, the marketings of the crops would be met by an issue of money from the
                    government. In this way the supply of money would always exactly equal the demand, stringencies in
                    the money market would be avoided and prices would be kept uniform.1
            
            A bill embodying the features outlined above was introduced in 1892 in congress. In the report of the
                    committee of Ways and Means a number of arguments were brought forward in opposition to the scheme.
                    It was pointed out that if the market value of the grain after storing fell below eighty per cent,
                    of its original value the government would lose. The number of federal officers would be greatly
                    increased, it was said, and the jurisdiction of the federal courts augmented to the oppression of
                    the people. Also, it was urged, the plan would encourage speculation. Thousands of dollars worth of
                    wheat could be carried at a low rate of interest with a comparatively 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 23, 1891.
                  
                     1 Appleton's Annual Encyclopaedia, 1890, p.
                            300.
               
                     small amount of cash. Finally, it was a violation of the
                    constitution in that it was class legislation: persons with wheat could get money from the
                    government at a tow rate of interest and loan it to others at a higher rate.2
            
            In the opinion of many the sub-treasury plan was unsound. In the form in which the idea first took
                    shape no doubt this is true. Yet it aimed to remedy a real weakness in our rural credits
                    system—a weakness recognized and remedied twenty-five years later by the Farm Loan and
                    Credits Act of 1916.
            Another plank in the platform demanded free and unlimited coinage of silver and denounced the efforts
                    of President Harrison in calling an international monetary conference to assist the 
                        United States
                     in fixing a value for silver. In addition, the increase of the circulating medium to
                    $50 per capita, a graduated income tax, and postal savings banks were demanded.
            In regard to the subject of transportation and communication, government ownership and operation of
                    railroads, the telegraph, and the telephone were advocated. At that time considered among the
                    wildest dreams of the Populists, these demands are now largely favored by public opinion.
            With reference to land the platform declared: 
                        The land, including all the natural sources of wealth, is the heritage of the people and
                            should not be monopolized for speculative purposes; alien ownership of land should be
                            prohibited; all land now held by railroads and other corporations in excess of their actual
                            needs, and all lands now owned by aliens should be reclaimed, by the government and held for
                            actual settlers only.
                    
                
            Among the State demands, equal representation of political parties on election boards, just
                    redistricting of the State, valuation of property for taxation according to net receipts derived
                    there from, popular election of county superintendents, abolition of the office of county assessor,
                    listing of property for taxation at a fair cash value and exemption of property holders from
                    bona-fide indebtedness, were demanded.
            Besides the planks in the platform proper the following 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 6, 1892.
               
                     demands were set forth in a number of resolutions: the
                    initiative and referendum, woman's suffrage and the reduction of intemperance by a proper
                    distribution of wealth.1 With better economic justice, reasoned the Populists,
                    there would be better morals.
            A minority report was also brought forward by the committee on resolutions which agreed with the
                    majority report on everything but the subject of intemperance. The minority report unequivocally
                    demanded the abolition of the liquor traffic. The suggested plank was rejected and the majority
                    report adopted by a vote of 574 to 164.2
            
            It will be observed that the platform of this convention was silent in regard to the tariff and the
                    trusts. The former never at any time occupied more than a subordinate place in the People's
                    party program; the latter, particularly in the later history of the party, became a leading issue.
                    According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel the declarations of the platform were "socialistic."1
            
            The convention also nominated a full State ticket headed by Leroy Templeton, of Boswell, 
                        Benton county
                    , a wealthy farmer and stock-raiser. Templeton, it will be remembered, had been
                    nominated by the party in 1890 for secretary of State, but after having been nominated for congress
                    by the Democrats and Independents of the Ninth district he had withdrawn his name.
            The following is the remainder of the ticket: 
                        Lieutenant-Governor, J. A. Houser, of 
                                Marion County
                            , physician; Secretary of State, Jesse L. Hobson, of 
                                Wabash County
                            , farmer; Auditor of State; Louis C. Kasten, of 
                                Allen county
                            , mechanic; Treasurer of State, Townsend Cope, of 
                                Jennings county
                            , farmer; Attorney-General, D. H. Fernandes, of 
                                Madison County
                            ; Superintendent of Public Instruction, J. H. Allen, of 
                                Vigo county
                            ; State Statistician, C. H. Bliss, of 
                                Howard county
                            , editor of a Populist paper; Reporter of the Supreme Court, W. H. Dewey, of 
                                Washington county
                            , mechanic.
                    
                
            These were the more important nominations. Besides 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 28, 1892.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 28, 1892.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 28, 1892.
               
                     these, names were also placed in nomination for Supreme and
                    Appellate Judges.2
            
            The work of the convention included also the selection of a new State central committee, consisting
                    of one member from each congressional district. This, it will be noted, was an abandonment of the
                    arrangement inaugurated in 1890 whereby there were three members from each district. Joshua Strange,
                    of Arcana, 
                        Grant County
                    , was made chairman of the new committee, with G. C. Stahl, of 
                        Delaware county
                    , as secretary, and L. M. Johnson, of 
                        Ripley county
                    , treasurer.
            It was in the course of the ensuing campaign that the members of the People's party began to
                    be called "Populists." As usual in such cases, the term at first applied in
                    derision came to be adopted by the members themselves until the name "Populist
                    party" became official. Since the birth of the party in 1890 it had been consistently
                    called the People's party. The word "Populist" so far as the writer has
                    been able to learn, was unknown up until the summer of 1892. At first the term took the form of
                    "Populite." This, however, whether by the rules of euphony, or for some other
                    reason, never caught the popular fancy and "Populist" came to be the accepted
                    word.
            The State campaign was naturally over-shadowed by the national campaign. In this, as in national
                    politics, free silver was coming to be more and more the dominant issue. Both old parties made
                    strenuous efforts to keep the struggle confined to the old rallying cry of the tariff. Hence in
                    regard to the money question they adopted straddling and evasive platforms.1 The
                    Republicans, entrenched in the sound-money East, were sincerely and strongly opposed to the free
                    silver "populistic" doctrines of the South and West. Among the Democrats,
                    defection to the new ideas was increasing. 
                        Cleveland
                    , by his letter in 1892 on free coinage of silver alienated a great many Democrats and
                    disappointed more.2 Events were shaping themselves toward Bryanism and the
                    political jumble of 1896.
            The platform put out by the Populist national convention at 
                        Omaha
                     on July 2 was mainly along the lines of the national 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 28, 1892.
                  
                     1 J. A. Woodburn, Political Parties and Party
                            Problems, 161, 162.
                  
                     2 J. S. Bassett, Short History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 750.
               
                     demands formulated by the Indiana State convention in May.3
            
            Some idea of the state of the country as seen by the Populists may be gained from the preamble of the
                    national platform: 
                        The conditions which surround us justify our co-operation. We meet in the midst of a Nation
                            brought to the verge of moral, political, and material ruin. Corruption dominates the ballot
                            box, the legislatures, congress and touches even the ermine of the bench. The people are
                            demoralized. … The newspapers are largely subsidized or muzzled; public opinion
                            silenced; business prostrated; our homes covered with mortgages; labor impoverished and the
                            land concentrating in the hands of the capitalists. The urban workmen are denied the right
                            of organization for self-protection; imported pauperized labor beats down their wages; a
                            hireling standing army, unrecognized by our laws, is established to shoot them down, and
                            they are rapidly degenerating into European conditions. The fruits of the toil of millions
                            are boldly stolen to build up colossal fortunes for a few. … From the same
                            prolific womb of governmental injustice we breed two great classes—tramps and
                                millionaires.1
                  
                    
                
            
               
                        
                     3 The following is an outline of the platform as adopted by the National
                            Convention:
                        I. Money.
                        (1) Issuance of a national flexible currency direct to the people as set forth in the
                            sub-treasury plan of the Farmers' Alliance.
                        (2) Free coinage of silver at the ratio of 16 to 1.
                        (3) Increase of the circulating medium to $50 per capita.
                        (4) A graduated income tax.
                        (5) Economical State and national administrations.
                        (6) Postal savings banks.
                        II. Transportation and Communication.
                        (1) Government ownership and operation of railroads and government operation of the telephone
                            and telegraph in the interest of the people.
                        III. Land.
                        (1) No alien ownership or speculative monopoly of land. Reclamation by the government of all
                            land owned by the railroads in excess of their actual needs.
                        A number of resolutions were also adopted in addition to the platform proper.
                        (1) That there should be a free ballot and a fair count through the adoption of the
                            Australian ballot.
                        (2) That the revenue from an income tax should be applied to relieve domestic taxation.
                        (3) That the contract labor and immigration laws should be repealed.
                        (4) That the universal eight-hour day should be put into effect.
                        (5) That the initiative and referendum should be established.
                        (6) That the President and Vice-President should be elected for one term only, and the
                            senators by direct vote.
                        The convention nominated for President, James B. Weaver, of 
                                Iowa
                            , an old radical, and the presidential candidate of the Greenbackers in 1880;
                            for Vice-President, James G. Field, of 
                                Virginia
                            .
                    
               
                  1 The literary craftsman of this famous preamble was Ignatius
                    Donnelly.
            
            
            The preamble continued in the same melancholy vein, reciting the issue of gold-bearing bonds, the
                    demonetization of silver, and the efforts of the two old parties to confine the issues of the
                    campaign to the tariff, as evidence of gross injustice being perpetrated upon the people.
            The choice of the convention, could it have had its way, was the honored jurist, Walter Q.
                        Gresham,1 whose presidential boom was cut short only by his own declination.
                    Lionized by the convention from the start, he was the most available man the People's party
                    had and the one most likely to harmonize the different factions. Colonel L. L. Polk, of 
                        North Carolina
                    , the national president of the Farmers' Alliance, had recently died. With both
                    Gresham and Polk eliminated the mantle fell upon General James B. Weaver, a veteran Green-backer,
                    who was ultimately the nominee of the convention.
            Members of the Indiana delegation figured most prominently in connection with the efforts put forth
                    to induce Judge Gresham to accept the nomination. In the early part of the proceedings, a caucus was
                    held, consisting of the delegations from Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Iowa
                     to take steps toward procuring the Judge's consent. A delegation consisting of
                    A. J. Streeter, of 
                        Illinois
                    ; Judge Orr, of 
                        Colorado
                    , and Leroy Templeton, an intimate friend of Gresham, was finally dispatched to 
                        Chicago
                    .1 For a time it seemed that partial success had attended their
                    efforts when H. E. Taubeneck, of 
                        Illinois
                    , chairman of the national committee, nearly stampeded the convention to Gresham the
                    next day by reading a telegram from J. A. Houser signifying Gresham's conditional
                    acceptance of the nomination.2 Later information from Gresham himself laid at
                    rest, once and for all, the hopes of his supporters, and the Indiana delegation, after having been
                    passed by once in the roll call, broke for Weaver.3
            
            
               
                  1 Judge Gresham, a native of Indiana, born near Corydon, had been a major
                        general in the Civil War. After the war he settled down as a lawyer, and rose rapidly in his
                        profession until he secured the appointment as Judge in one of the federal circuit courts. It
                        was said he was converted to the doctrines of the People's party by reading Ignatius
                        Donnelly's political novel, Caesar's Column.
               
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, July 4, 1892.
               
                  2 Houser, it will be remembered, was the candidate of the
                        People's party in Indiana for lieutenant governor. He was a newspaper writer and the
                        reputed author of the work, Is Marriage a Failure? 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, July 5, 1892.
               
                  3
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, July 5, 1892.
            
            
            The Indiana members of the national committee, which consisted of three members from each State, were
                    M. C. Rankin, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; C. A. Robinson, of 
                        Greenfield
                    , and Fraser Thomas.
            The campaign in Indiana was carried on in much the same way as in 1890. Rallies, barbecues, and
                    picnics were the order of the day. The opening shot in the campaign was fired on July 20, at a
                    monster rally at 
                        Vincennes
                     when General J. B. Weaver spoke to an immense audience. Another speaker was Mort C.
                    Rankin, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            After the election, November 8, it was found that Leroy Templeton, the head of the ticket, had
                    received 22,000 votes, about 4 per cent, of the total vote cast, and an increase of 10,600 over the
                    vote cast in 1890.1
            
            THE YEAR 1894
            After the more or less exciting presidential campaign of 1892, the political pot became calm again.
                    Consequently 1893 brought few new developments in the People's party. The new party had
                    made greater inroads into the Democratic than into the Republican camp in the elections of 1892, but
                    while the large Democratic majorities in the South were safe against such losses, the narrower
                    Republican margins in the North were in many cases wiped out. An unexpected Democratic victory was
                    the result, perhaps not altogether due to the Populists. At any rate the free silver idea was
                    gaining ground and populistic doctrines were becoming more respectable. The financial panic of 1893,
                    whether or not brought on by the disasters of the 
                        Cleveland
                     administration, intensified the economic distress of the time. Low prices continued.
                    These and other conditions of the time continued to provide the Populists with ample ground upon
                    which to base their grievances. Instead of abating, the waves of discontent were rising higher and
                    higher.
            In Indiana at this time harmony prevailed within the party. In January, 1894, at the call of Joshua
                    Strange, chairman of the State central committee, there was a love feast of 
                  
                     1 Report of the Secretary of State, Documentary
                            Journal, 1892, Part I.
               
                     about thirty-five Populists at the Hotel English, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was rumored that C. A. Robinson, president of the Indiana F. M. B. A., would object
                    to the old plank in the platform favoring government ownership of railroads. This was denied by both
                    Robinson and Strange.1 At this meeting Strange gave it out as his opinion that
                    the coming fight would be between the People's party and the Republicans.2
            
            The convention for nominating a State ticket and drawing up a platform was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 24. There was supposed to be one delegate from each township going to make up
                    the roster, but actually only three or four hundred were present. It was understood that the
                    candidates were to be distributed evenly throughout the State.1
            
            The platform contained the following planks:
            The platform adopted by the 
                        Omaha
                     nominating convention in 1892 was endorsed. It was demanded that the circulating medium
                    be increased to $50 per capita. Free coinage of silver at the ratio of sixteen to one, to
                    be issued direct to the public was also demanded. Vigorous opposition to banks of issue, either
                    State or national, and to interest bearing bonds was expressed and the Acts of 1873 and 1893,2 were bitterly denounced. These two acts, it was said, had the effect through
                    the setting up of the gold standard of reducing the laborers and producers of this country to the
                    level of pauper labor in the Old World. The old demands of a national graduated income tax and the
                    direct election of 
                        United States
                     senators were reaffirmed.
            The remainder of the platform was devoted to State issues.
            The immediate repeal of the Metropolitan police law was asked for. This was a law passed by the
                    legislature of 1893, which applied to cities between ten and thirty-five thousand population. By the
                    terms of the law three police commissioners were to be appointed by the governor. These
                    commissioners were to have complete control over the police in the cities coming within the scope of
                    the law. The law was 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, Jan. 4, 1894. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 4, 1894.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Jan. 4, 1894.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 22, 1894.
                  
                     3 The act repealing the Sherman Silver Purchasing Act.
               
                     aimed mainly to prevent political corruption in the appointment
                    and removal of policemen. By its terms no policeman was to be removed henceforth on account of his
                    political beliefs. The Populists objected to the law because, as they said, it interfered with local
                    home rule.1
            
            Another plank, a natural demand for a third party to make, struck at that part of the election law
                    which prohibited minority representation on election boards.
            Further, a constitutional convention to revise the State constitution2 was
                    demanded, the changes contemplated being reform in the system of taxation, the initiative and
                    referendum and the placing of the veto power of important laws in the hands of the people. The old
                    demand made in the conventions of 1890 and again in 1892, that debtors should not be taxed on their
                    bona-fide indebtedness, was reiterated. Moreover, it was demanded that debtors in paying their debts
                    should pay in gold, silver or any lawful money without any previous discriminatory agreement. This
                    was a blow at the "gold bugs" who it was charged conducted their transactions in
                    gold at the expense of the poor.
            In regard to labor, the Populists were explicit and reasonable. They declared against child labor and
                    convict labor in competition with free workmen. According to their plan, convicts should be put to
                    work building and improving public roads. They favored industrial arbitration, an
                    employer's liability law and the reduction of working hours by legal enactment. They also
                    advocated municipal ownership of public utilities and the construction of public works by the State
                    and by communities.
            General demands were a homestead law, an inheritance tax of five per cent on sums above
                    $2,000 for the benefit of the State sinking fund, more efficiency in the administration
                    of the public school funds, and the conformation of the State naturalization laws to the national
                    laws on that subject.1
            
            
               
                  1
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, December 1, 1894.
               
                  2 The demand for a constitutional convention had been made by various
                        minor parties, notably the Prohibitionists, for some time. The agitation has finally resulted in
                        the act for a constitutional convention of September, 1917, the change in the basic law taking
                        the form of a new constitution because of the difficulty of amending the old one.
               
                  1 The idea here involved was that no foreigner be allowed to vote unless
                        he was a naturalized citizen. As it was, the qualifications were merely one year's
                        residence and declaration of intention to become a citizen.
            
            
            There was also a resolution declaring for woman's suffrage and one expressing alarm over the
                    liquor traffic. In doing away with the traffic, the initiative and referendum was urged as the best
                    remedy. As usual, the party was guarded and equivocal in its expressions in regard to prohibition,
                    no doubt through fear of being identified with the Prohibitionists.
            The ticket put out by the convention was as follows: 
                        Secretary of State, Dr. C. A. Robinson,1 of 
                                Fountain
                             town; Auditor of State, Edgar A. Perkins, of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Treasurer of State, A. B. Keeport, of 
                                Logansport
                            ; Attorney-General, Silas M. Holcomb, of 
                                Tipton
                            ; Superintendent of Public Instruction, Capt. J. H. Allen, of 
                                Terre Haute
                            ; Clerk of the Supreme Court, J. Harry Montgomery, of 
                                Lawrence County
                            ; Statistician, William P. Smith, of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; State Geologist, Edward Kindle, of 
                                Bloomington
                            ; Judge of Supreme Court in Fourth District, D. W. Chambers.
                    
                
            The high water mark of the independent Populist vote was reached on this ticket, Dr. C. A. Robinson,
                    the candidate for secretary of State, receiving 29,388 votes, or five per cent of the total.2
            
            (To be continued.)
            
               
                  1 President of the Indiana P. M. B. A. At present, (1917) Riley
                        impersonator and platform lecturer. Residence, 
                            Greenfield
                        .
               
                  2 The Populist percentage of the respective total votes for the election
                        years from 1890 to 1900 are as follows: 1890 3 per cent, 1892 4 per cent, 1894 5 per cent, 1896
                        1.3 per cent, 1898 1+ per cent, 1900 1/5 per cent.
            
         
         
         
            Edward A. Hannegan
            By JOHN WESLEY WHICKER, 
                        Attica
                    , Indiana.
            Edward A. Hannegan came into 
                        Fountain county
                    , Indiana, about 1825 and lived for probably one year with a brother-in-law who had
                    erected a grist mill in the northern part of the county. In 1825–6 he worked for the
                    farmers on Shawnee prairie In 
                        Fountain
                     cvounty. In the winter of 1826 he taught school in the northern part of the county and
                    in 1826–7, while teaching school and working by the month for the farmers on Shawnee
                    prairie, he was admitted to the bar in 
                        Fountain county
                     to practice law and at once entered into the practice. A little later, on May 7, 1829,
                    he was admitted to practice law in 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana, and located at 
                        Williamsport
                    , but remained there only a few months when he moved to 
                        Covington
                    , which had been selected as the county seat of 
                        Fountain county
                    .
            In the organization of the General Assembly in 1829 he was chosen as enrolling clerk. This was the
                    first public office he held. At this time, 1829, the lawyers followed the judge over his entire
                    circuit and were called circuit riders. Hannegan rode the judicial circuit in which he practiced
                    with Judge John R. Porter as president judge.
            He was elected to the office of prosecuting attorney for the judicial district in 1830. In 1832 he
                    was elected from his congressional district in Indiana to congress as a Democrat, defeating Albert
                    S. White of Lafayette, and served his district in congress until 1840, when he was defeated by Henry
                    S. Lane of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . He distinguished himself in congress as an orator, and Webster said of him:
                    "Had Hannegan entered congress before I entered it I fear I never should have been known
                    for my eloquence."
            On August 5, 1838, while yet a member of congress, Hannegan was made a colonel in the State militia
                    and was stationed  at 
                        Fort Plymouth
                    , Indiana, on account of trouble with the Indians.
            In 1842 he was elected to succeed O. H. Smith in the 
                        United States
                     senate. At this time the Democratic and Whig parties were almost evenly matched in the
                    general assembly in the State of Indiana; so closely that one or two votes would determine the
                    contest. On the first ballot O. H. Smith, the Whig candidate, received 72 votes and Tilghman A.
                    Howard, the Democratic candidate, received 74 votes. Joseph G. Marshall, a Whig, received one vote.
                    The second ballot the vote stood as follows: O. H. Smith, the Whig, received 73 votes, Tilghman A.
                    Howard, the Democratic candidate, received 74 votes. Neither received enough votes to elect.
            As a criminal lawyer Edward A. Hannegan had won a reputation that extended over the State of Indiana.
                    He was called to 
                        Switzerland County
                    , Indiana, to defend a man accused of murder. He cleared the man. The man was very poor
                    and could not pay Hannegan anything for his work, but in the presence of his son he and his son, a
                    boy of about sixteen years of age, pledged themselves that in payment for his attorney fees in this
                    particular case, if the opportunity ever came, to repay him by supporting him for any office he
                    might wish, regardless of politics, they would do so. The man he had cleared soon afterward,
                    sickened and died and dying pleged his son to carry out their promise to Edward A. Hannegan. A few
                    years later the son of the man was stricken with hasty consumption and was nearing the end, but was
                    yet able to ride in a buggy or other conveyance for an hour or more.
            When the election came the Whig candidate for the State senate in that district was Daniel Kelso. The
                    district was very close and Kelso went to the dying man to get him to go to the polls and vote.
                    Kelso was a Whig and the dying man told Kelso that if he would pledge himself to vote for Edward A.
                    Hannegan for the 
                        United States
                     senate they could take him to the polls and he would vote for Kelso for the State
                    senate. With this pledge Kelso hauled the dying man to the polls; he voted for Kelso and Kelso was
                    elected by one vote.
            On this second ballot this Daniel Kelso, a Whig, voted for 
                    Edward A. Hannegan, a Democrat, and continued to vote for him. In the sixth ballot the Democrats
                    dropped Tilghman A. Howard and supported Hannegan who then received 76 votes and was thus elected by
                    one vote to the 
                        United States
                     senate in 1843. The Whigs accused Kelso of selling his vote and by public resolution
                    renounced him.
            In the Democratic caucus of the 
                        United States
                     congress to determine whether or not we would declare war on 
                        Mexico
                     in 1846, the vote was a tie, Hannegan not voting, and in that caucus Hannegan cast the
                    one vote, the decisive vote in favor of declaring war, and thus the one vote of the dying man in 
                        Switzerland County
                    , Indiana, added to the domains of the 
                        United States
                     of America all of the territory that came to the 
                        United States
                     as a result of the Mexican War. And this the politicians use today to show the value of
                    one vote.
            In 1849 Hannegan was defeated by Governor James Whit-comb for the 
                        United States
                     senate. On the 29th day of March, 1849, Hannegan was appointed by President Polk as
                    minister to the court of Prussia and the queen of Prussia became so infatuated with this eloquent
                    Hoosier representative that His Majesty the Kaiser grew jealous and when on a state occasion
                    Hannegan broke all rules of courts and etiquette and kissed the hand of the queen, the Kaiser
                    requested that Hannegan be recalled, he having served about two years.
            In the county election in 1851 there were three candidates for representative in the lower house of
                    the legislature from 
                        Fountain county
                    . Hannegan was the Democratic candidate, William Piatt, for whom 
                        Piatt
                     county, 
                        Illinois
                    , was named, ran independent and received 80 votes. Hannegan received 997 votes and
                    Jacob Dice, a United Brethren preacher and the Whig candidate, received 1,165 votes and was elected.
            As the politicians gathered in the courthouse yard in the dusk of the autumn evening and the returns
                    came in from the out townships, Hannegan, realizing his defeat, said: "The gloom of this
                    night is the winding sheet of my political career." He immediately entered the race for the
                    nomination for President of the 
                        United States
                     on the Democratic ticket, had secured pledges of nine States to support him and it
                    looked as though nothing would prevent his being the Democratic nominee for President in the
                    following election.
            
            
               
                        Franklin
                     Pierce was then unknown and Hannegan had been the only man in the 
                        United States
                     senate from the middle west on the Democratic side of the house who could cope with
                    Daniel Webster in eloquence and debate, and it seemed that his nomination was certain. In the stress
                    of the canvass he drank too much and came home for a little rest and to sober up. He and his wife
                    were living with his wife's brother, Capt. John R. Duncan, at 
                        Covington
                    . Duncan had distinguished himself for bravery and won his title of captain in the
                    Mexican War and was greatly interested in the welfare and political career of his brother-in-law and
                    felt that the drink habit was growing on Hannegan to the point of jeopardizing Hannegan's
                    chances for the nomination and thought it best that Hannegan should know it.
            Hannegan's wife agreed with Duncan, but did not like to talk to Hannegan about it. (Perhaps
                    she had taken him to task for the incident with the queen of Prussia and still had unpleasant
                    memories of the occasion.) At least it was left to the brother-in-law to speak to Hannegan about
                    curbing his habit of drink. A quarrel followed and Mrs. Hannegan took Hannegan by the arm and
                    started upstairs with him. The conversation fired Hannegan to great anger and as his wife started to
                    pull him to the stairway he snatched a dagger from the mantle in the room and drove it to the hilt
                    in the neck of Duncan, his brother-in-law.
            This was on the 6th day of May, 1852. Duncan died the next day. Upon his death he declared that no
                    blame should be attached to Hannegan. The only official record that is left of the Hannegan-Duncan
                    tragedy is the following short entry in the order book among the records in the clerk's
                    office at 
                        Covington
                    : 
                        SIXTH JUDICIAL DAY OF THE SEPTEMBER TEEM OF COURT, 1852. STATE OF INDIANA,
                        
                            vs.
                        
                        E. A. HANNEGAN, on a charge of manslaughter.
                        Comes now the said defendant and no bill of indictment having been found by the grand jury,
                            it is ordered by the court that the said defendant be discharged and go hence without day.
                        Signed: September 18, 1852, by J. NAYLOR, Judge.
                    
                
            
            Lew Wallace (afterwards general in the federal army in the War of the Rebellion, minister to the
                    court of 
                        Turkey
                     and author of The Fair God and Ben-Hur) had been
                    elected prosecuting attorney of the district. On account of this finding of the grand jury and the
                    fact that in the presence of Mr. Wallace, Hannegan had been permitted to state his case to the grand
                    jury which was the most dramatic incident perhaps ever occurring before a grand jury in Indiana and
                    on account of bitter criticism by Isaac A. Rice, who at that time was publishing a paper at 
                        Covington
                     and was an eloquent lawyer of note, Wallace tendered his resignation as prosecuting
                    attorney and moved to 
                        Crawfordsville county
                    , seat of the adjoining county. Daniel W. Voorhees, afterwards the eloquent 
                        United States
                     senator from Indiana, was appointed prosecuting attorney to fill the vacancy made by
                    the resignation of Wallace. Voorhees refused to have the grand jury review the case, served the
                    unexpired term of Wallace and on account of severe criticism moved from 
                        Covington
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            Isaac A. Rice had been so bitter in his denunciation of Voorhees and Wallace that he too moved from 
                        Covington
                     with the paper that he was editing and located in 
                        Attica
                    . The paper that he brought with him from 
                        Covington
                     to 
                        Attica
                     is still in existence and is now the 
                        Attica
                    
                    Ledger. Isaac A. Rice was elected State senator from his district in 1856 and was
                    nominated for congress in 1860 and would have been elected to congress, but while making a speech at
                    Delphi in his congressional race he dropped dead. He was yet a young man, an able editor and an
                    eloquent public speaker.
            Hannegan was never the same man after the tragedy. He abandoned his presidential aspirations and for
                    a few years continued to practice law at 
                        Covington
                    . His prestige was gone and his drink habit grew on him. He moved to
                            
                  Saint Louis, Missouri
               , and opened a law office there (his son had previously
                    located in 
                        Saint Louis
                    ), and for two years he prospered and concluded to again enter politics in a new field
                    away from the sad memories of the tragedy that had ended his political career in Indiana.
            In the meantime his wife, who had been very devoted to him, had died and the whiskey habit still
                    remained with him.  He had also become addicted to the use of
                    morphine but in spite of all these habits he was still an eloquent orator. He could still charm a
                    jury in the court room, and he gathered about him a few over-zealous friends who insisted that he
                    should start a new political career.
            It was planned that in January, 1859, a great meeting should be held in 
                        Saint Louis
                     and the principal address was to be made by Hannegan. This was the period preceding the
                    nominations of the Presidential election of 1860. Hannegan's address was planned to advance
                    the interests of Stephen A. Douglas for the Presidency and again to bring the speaker into
                    prominence.
            The meeting was carefully arranged and well advertised. The audience was everything that those who
                    had the meeting in charge could have wished and the promoters were elated at their prospects. But
                    the mills of the gods are relentless. Hannegan had worshipped long at the shrine of Bacchus and
                    again Bacchus claimed his toll. Realizing that upon the success of this speech depended his success
                    or failure in his last effort to gain political prominence, Hannegan resorted to both whiskey and
                    morphine for stimulant. The man who made the introductory speech reviewed the public life of
                    Hannegan at length and talked too long. When at last he presented the distinguished and able speaker
                    the alcohol and opium had passed the stage of stimulant and had reached the stage of stupefaction.
                    Hannegan made an address, but it lacked the brilliancy and power of oratory which his hearers had
                    been led to expect, and not only did it fall flat but was a disappointment to the promoters, to the
                    audience and to Hannegan. Those who had planned the meeting severely upbraided him for his
                    indulgence at such a critical time, but Hannegan realized more keenly than they how completely he
                    had failed. Sad and broken-hearted he left the meeting and went to his room, stung by the criticism
                    of his over-confident friends and depressed by the sense of his own humiliation and was never seen
                    alive after that inauspicious night.
            The next morning his dead body was found in his bed. Upon his retirement on the night of the 24th day
                    of January, 1859, he had taken an overdose of morphine, whether to induce  sleep and rest from his troubled past or with suicidal intent will
                    never be known.
            Harriet Martineau, the famous English writer, who visited 
                        Washington
                     while Hannegan was in congress, thought him the most eloquent man in congress,
                    preferring him to Webster.
            Julia Henderson Levering, who was born in 
                        Covington
                     and lived there until she was probably fourteen years of age, says in her publication,
                        Historic Indiana: 
                        
                     
                                Covington
                             was a very thriving town in those days, with the lively commerce of the new
                            canal and river, and far eclipsed the capital of the state in business prospects. In the
                            village there was a brilliant coterie of young men, who had settled there because of the
                            flattering business outlook. Many of them became famous afterwards in State and national
                            politics. Such men as Senator Edward Hannegan, Judge Henry Ristine, Daniel Voorhees, David
                            Briar, Daniel Mace and Lew Wallace resided in the town, with many others equally honorable,
                            but who attained less fame.
                    
                
            Again she says: 
                        There was also much bluster throughout the west during President Folk's campaign
                            over the claims of Great Britain regarding 
                                Oregon
                            . With the other States west of the Alleghenies, Indiana joined in the cry of
                            her own 
                                United States
                             Senator, Edward Hannegan, of "Fifty-four forty or
                                fight."
                  
                    
                
            Hannegan was ever fond of his home, of 
                        Covington
                    , the Wabash valley and Wabash river. Often he
                    would leave 
                        Washington
                     during a session of congress to go home and fish and hunt and regain his health along
                    the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Once he said to a friend: "Come go home with me and let me show you the
                    lovely valley of the 
                        Wabash
                    ." Again on a hot day in 
                        Washington
                    : "I can endure these hot and crowded halls no longer, I must have free air and
                    space in which to roam, I would like to fish and hunt where I pleased and when I pleased; come go
                    home with me, and see how I live in Indiana, and the beauty of the Wabash river
                    and the Wabash valley."
            In closing a speech in congress, Hannegan himself described better than anyone else the feeling and
                    the sentiment  that inspired him through his political career,
                    through his tragedy and on to the end of his life in this beautiful paragraph: 
                        For the singleness and sincerity of my motives I appeal to Heaven; by them I am willing to be
                            judged now and hereafter when prostrate at Thy feet, O God, I falter forth my last brief
                            prayer for mercy on an erring life.
                    
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            NEBRASKA HISTORY is the title of the official publication of
                    the 
                        Nebraska
                     State Historical Society. It is a monthly in magazine form, edited by Addison E.
                    Sheldon for the society, and devoted to the publication of material relating to the pioneer days of
                    the State. The society has about 450 members.
            THE Indiana Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis is issuing a circular
                    called the Stimulator to arouse among the voters an interest in the foundation of
                    a State Sanatorium for the treatment of tuberculosis. The first number was published October 9,
                    1918.
            THE
                    History Teachers' Magazine has changed its name to the Historical Outlook. Albert E. McKinley remains its managing editor. It is an organ of the
                    American Historical Association. Among its advisory editors is Oscar H. Williams, High School
                    Inspector of Indiana, and on the National Board of Historical Service which closely cooperates with
                    the editorial board of the Historical Outlook is Dr. S. B. Harding, also of
                    Indiana.
            THE
                    Proceedings of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association
                    for 1916–17 were published as an extra number of the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review in October. The papers of
                    this number were read at the 
                        Chicago
                     meeting April 26–28, 1917. The Proceedings were prepared
                    by Prof. Beverly W. Bond, of Purdue. Articles by Indiana men are "The Coming of the Circuit
                    Riders Across the Mountains," by Dr. W. W. Sweet, of DePauw, and "Possibilities in
                    State Historical Celebrations," by Harlow Lindley, of Earlham.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine for June contains an account of the "
                        Memphis
                     Railroad Convention of 1849," by R. S. Cotterill, and a continuation of Albert
                    G. Goodpasture's  "Indian Wars and Warriors of
                    the Old Southwest, 1730–1807."
            THE October number of the 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review contains a continuation of "Gottfried
                    Duden's Report, 1824–27." This is a valuable addition to the pioneer
                    literature of the Mississippi Valley.
            THE SURVEY is under obligations to the Curator of Independence
                    Hall, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , for a copy of a catalog of the portraits and other works of art now contained in that
                    building. These number about 400, including portraits of nearly all the well-known characters of the
                    Revolution. The booklet contains large portraits of many of the signers of the Declaration.
            
               Government in Indiana, a supplement to S. E. Forman's Advanced Civics and also to his American Republic, is the title of a
                    small manual prepared by C. V. Haworth, superintendent of the 
                        Kokomo city
                     schools. The pamphlet is a brief commentary and analysis of the State constitution in
                    manual form. The duties and powers of the various officers and boards of State, county, city and
                    township are given.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Michigan
                         History Magazine for April contains the "Pageant of
                    Escanaba," by Supt. F. E. King, of the Escanaba schools. There are also articles by William
                    L. Jenks on the "Creation of the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    ," "James B. Angell and the University of 
                        Michigan
                    ," by Wilfred B. Shaw, and "Reminiscences of the Macinac
                    Country," by Brayton Saltonstall.
            THE following letter indicates the progress being made in beautifying and marking
                    the Vicksburg battlefields, now a national park: 
                  
                     
                        War Department, Vicksburg National Military Park Commission.
                                    Vicksburg, Miss., Apr. 16, 1918.
                        Logan Esarey, Editor,
                                    Indiana Magazine of History,
                                    
                                        Bloomington
                                    , Indiana. DEAR SIR:
                        The park commission invites your best efforts on behalf  of an appropriation by the Indiana legislature for a
                                    State memorial in the Vicksburg National Military Park, on the commanding area
                                    inclosed by Indiana circle, and near where two guns of the First Indiana Battery
                                    were served.
                        By authority of the legislature, at a cost of $38,000 the State commission
                                    placed in the park 16 beautiful monuments that bear the record of each of the 28
                                    Indiana organizations engaged in the Vicksburg operations, and 53 massive markers.
                                    The War Department authorized bronze portraits of 9 Indiana officers (Alexander,
                                    Benton, Hovey, Keigwin, Kimball, Lucas, McGinnis, Shunk, Washburn) placed in it, at
                                    the cost of the park funds. The commission secured a bronze portrait of one Indiana
                                    officer (Slack), as a gift to the park.
                        It remains for the legislature to complete this work by an appropriation to
                                    commemorate on this battlefield park the devotion to duty, steadfast patriotism, and
                                    heroic services of Indiana soldiers in the Vicksburg operations.
                        Sincerely yours, WILLIAM T. RIGSBY,
                                    Chairman, Park Commission.
                     
                  
               
                
            THE
                    
                  
                            Louisiana
                         Historical Quarterly for September, 1917, contains an account of 
                        Lafayette
                    's Visit to 
                        New Orleans
                     by Judge Henry Renshaw, and a paper of about 90 pages on General James Wilkinson by his
                    great grandson, James Wilkinson.
            
               Special Report Concerning Common School Funds is a booklet of 89 pages issued by
                    Gilbert H. Hendren, State examiner. The booklet contains an interesting and valuable historical
                    account of the school funds by George Pence, one of the State fund examiners. This is the best
                    account of the origin and present condition of the different funds available. Every fund is treated
                    separately and the acts quoted creating them. Under the Seminary Fund is given a list of the
                    seminaries chartered by the State with date and location of each. The distribution to each county is
                    given, together with the dates and amounts belonging to each county. The booklet represents an
                    immense amount of very careful work by Mr. Pence.
            
            PART IX Transactions of the 
                            London
                         and 
                            Middlesex
                         Historical Society of 
                  London,
                            Ontario
               , contains an interesting account
                    of the Wilberforce Refugee Colony in 
                        Middlesex county
                    . This colony was composed almost entirely of colored refugees who crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana borders before the Civil War. It was the haven of most of the colored
                    runaways assisted by the Underground Railway in Indiana during the exciting period of the Fugitive
                    Slave law. The article is by Fred Landon, Public Librarian of 
                        London
                    .
            THE
                    Twenty-eighth Annual Report of the Eastern Indiana Hospital for the Insane for the
                    year ending Sept. 30, 1917, has recently been issued. This hospital is located at 
                        Richmond
                     and is under the superintendency of Dr. Samuel E. Smith. The enrollment for the year
                    was 891. There were 146 new cases admitted; 64 discharged and 65 deaths; whole number under
                    treatment for the year was 1,037. The cost per capita was $217.37. This hospital was
                    opened August 1, 1890, since when 4,185 patients have been admitted, 2,165 men and 2,020 women.
            ALMOST the entire space of the July number of the 
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics is taken up with Dan E. Clark's
                    article on the "Frontier Defense of 
                        Iowa
                    , 1850–1865." Other articles are "Wheat and Cotton During
                    the Civil War," by Louis Bernard Schmidt, and "The Ages of the Soldiers in the
                    Civil War," by W. W. Gist.
            IN the July 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review is an account by R. S. Cotterill, of the National Railroad
                    Convention in 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1849. The main purpose of this convention was to further the project of a Pacific
                    Railroad. Abner T. Ellis, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , was temporary chairman. Indiana was represented by 35 delegates. Judge Stephen A.
                    Douglas presided. One of the leading members was O. H. Smith, of Indiana, whose address on this
                    occasion is preserved in his Trials and Sketches, page 400.
            THE ADDRESS of Amos W. Butler, Secretary of the State Board of
                    Charities, delivered at the State Conference of Charities  and
                    Corrections at 
                  Emporia, Kansas
               , October 30, 1917, has been issued in pamphlet form. Mr. Butler
                    deals in a historical way with one of the greatest questions now confronting government in America.
                    The care of defectives and unfortunates is rapidly coming to be one of the heaviest financial
                    burdens of society. Mr. Butler has devoted his life to the study of this problem and has earned a
                    nation-wide reputation. The subject of his address is "Colonies for Public Wards."
                    At the meeting of the American Prison Association at 
                        New Orleans
                    , Nov. 20, 1917, Mr. Butler spoke on "A State Board of Charities and
                    Corrections." In this address which was printed in pamphlet form, the speaker pointed out
                    the benefits to Indiana resulting from such a board.
            THE July 
                  
                            Michigan
                         History Magazine contains an article by William H. Hathaway of Milwaukee on
                    "County Organization in 
                        Michigan
                    ." Besides an historical account of the formation of each county, there is a
                    series of maps showing the changes in county lines from year to year.
            THE July 
                  
                            Western Pennsylvania
                         Historical Magazine has an excellent article by Mrs. Agnes M. Hays Gormley on
                    "The Rappite Community at Economy and at 
                        New Harmony
                    ." Mrs. Gormley was well acquainted with the brothers and sisters of the
                    Harmony Society and writes with a sympathy not always shown by historians. Although brief, it is one
                    of the best accounts available of that strange community.
            Another valuable article in the July number is a letter by William Henry Harrison accepting the
                    nomination to the presidency from the Anti-Masonic Convention held at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1838.
            
               National School Service is the title of a journal which appeared from 
                        Washington, D. C.
                    , September 1. The editorial staff is headed by Dr. Guy Stanton Ford. The historical
                    section of the journal is under the supervision of Dr. Samuel B. Harding. The purpose of the paper
                    is to furnish the teachers with reliable governmental information. The paper is sent free to school
                    teachers.
            
            THE
                    Seventeenth Annual Report of the State Board of Forestry and of the State Park
                        Committee, by Richard Lieber, State Forester, and Charles C. Deam, his assistant, is
                    reprinted from the Year Book. The forest lands of the State are estimated at
                    3,000,000 acres. The State Park committee is a result of the late centennial celebration and seems
                    to be the only thing of lasting importance resulting from that agitation. Two parks have been laid
                    out and are now owned by the State, one known as McCormick's Creek Canyon in 
                        Owen county
                    , the other as 
                        Turkey
                     Run, in 
                        Parke county
                    . The former cost $5,253, the latter $41,075.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Illinois
                         Catholic Historical Review, published by the 
                        Illinois
                     Catholic Historical Society, made its initial appearance in July. The first number is a
                    neat booklet of 144 pages. Every article in it is of historical interest to Indiana readers, but
                    especially is the one on Pierre Gibault by Joseph J. Thompson, editor of the magazine. Indiana also
                    claims Gibault as one of its pioneer heroes. "Early Catholicity in 
                        Chicago
                    ," by Gilbert J. Garragas, and "The 
                        Illinois
                     Missions," by Joseph J. Thompson, are other articles that bear closely on
                    early Indiana history.
            THE June Records of the American Catholic Historical Society
                    continues the Diary of Bishop Flaget. During the period covered in this issue the Bishop was at
                            
                  Bardstown, Kentucky
               .
            VOLUME I, Publications of the 
                            North Carolina
                         Historical Commission is devoted entirely to the papers of Thomas Ruffin. The
                    papers of Judge Ruffin cover the period from 1803 to 1830. A memorial oration by William Graham, a
                    chronology of his life and a calendar of the letters precede the papers in the volume.
         
         
            
               Journal of Thomas Dean. Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. 6, No. 2.
                    Edited by JOHN CANDEE DEAN, annotated by
                        RANDLE C. DEAN. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1918. Price, 50 cents.
            
            This journey, of which this journal is the record, was made from Deansboro, N. Y., to central Indiana
                    during the summer of 1817. The party, consisting of Dean and some Brothertown Indians, left home May
                    31 and passed down 
                  Lake
                        Ontario, Lake
                    Erie
               , French Creek, Allegheny river, Ohio
                        river, up the 
                        Wabash
                    , across the central part of Indiana via 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Detroit
                    . Mr. Dean was in search of a western home for the Brothertown Indians, who finally
                    settled on Fox river, 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The trip was made in a large keel boat or schooner of 6 tons burden. The party made
                    from 50 to 70 miles per day on the western trip, going from Pittsburg to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 6 days; from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     in 2 days; from 
                        Louisville
                     to the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                     in 10 days; or the entire distance of 1,003 miles in 15 days. Traveling up the 
                        Wabash
                     was found much more difficult on account of the rapids and shallow water.
            The comments made by Dean on the general condition of the western country and especially on such
                    places as 
                  New Harmony, Vincennes
                and the Shaker settlement on the Busseron prairie are
                    interesting and valuable. The journal is plain though a little more editorial explanation here and
                    there would have helped the ordinary reader. It is one of the most valuable papers published by the
                    Society. If the editors have any more such material in their possession they should by all means
                    make it available in some such way as they have this.
            L. E.
         
         
            
               The Public Life of Zachariah Chandler, 1851–1875. By WILMER C. HARRIS, Ph.D. (
                  
                            Michigan
                         Historical Publications, University Series, II.) (Lansing, Historical
                    Commission, 1917, pp. 152, $1.00.)
            This is a plain account of the public career of Zach. Chandler, the noted Republican political leader
                    of 
                        Michigan
                    , from his election as mayor of 
                        Detroit
                     in 1851 to his sudden death while a senator of the 
                        United States
                     in 1879. These years marked stirring times, during which Chandler was engaged in much
                    party activity and in many political controversies. Dr. Harris in his brief monographic sketch is
                    able to touch only lightly on varied subjects of much historical importance. The monograph  is intended to supplement, not to supersede, the Post and
                    Tribune Life of Chandler, which was written from partial and friendly motives. Dr. Harris writes
                    without bias or partizanship and is far from being a eulogist. He merely sets forth, with very
                    little of either commendation or disapproval, the party record of Chandler and his position on
                    public policies. We see Chandler as an early Whig candidate for governor of 
                        Michigan
                     in 1852; as one of the founders of the Republican party in 1854, as the successor of
                    Lewis Cass in the Senate in 1857; as a Radical Republican in that body during the Civil War and
                    Reconstruction times, till his defeat for re-election in 1875; as Secretary of the Interior for a
                    time under President Grant; as chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1876; and again as 
                        United States
                     Senator to fill an unexpired term.
            The author finds in Chandler a "typical product of his time," a
                    "fire-eater of the Northwest," and an "exponent of practical spoils
                    politics," one who was a political manager of great strength, who never hesitated to build
                    and use a party machine in order to promote his own political ambition and to keep himself in power.
                    The kind of radical that Chandler was before the Civil War is shown by his being ever ready to meet
                    southern threats of disunion with counter-threats of hanging rebels, and by his proposal to his
                    Republican colleagues to stand up in the face of Southern insults with bold challenges to
                    fight—"to carry the quarrel into a coffin." He knew no compromise. If
                    the right of secession were to be conceded, or if the South had to be "let alone"
                    to break up the Union, he wished to know it. Then Chandler would resign his seat in the Senate,
                    arrange his business affairs, and prepare to migrate, as he proposed never to live in a country
                    whose government "had no power to enforce its own laws." He preferred to join the
                    Comanche Indians. His famous letter about "stiff-backed men" and a little
                    "blood-letting" as a cement to the Union finds its due recognition in the essay.
            One is disappointed to find that only a very few lines are given to Mr. Chandler's
                    connection with the campaign and disputed election of 1876, when the cause of "a civil
                    service reform candidate was managed by a dyed-in-the-wool spoilsman."  Chandler's telegram is given, announcing Hays'
                    election with 185 electoral votes, but nothing is told of what Chandler did in the winter of
                    1876–1877 to make that famous telegram good. It is so with many other subjects of
                    importance; everything is brief, sometimes to the point of leaving one quite unsatisfied. However,
                    such defects are incident to the nature of the task. The volume, on the whole, is a credit to the
                    author and it is one of distinct value to the student of American politics. It contains a good deal
                    of 
                        Michigan
                     political history. Valuable material is presented from Chandler's letters, and
                    an informing chapter on the racial and religious elements in 
                        Michigan
                    's voting on historic issues. The volume has a good index and a full biography.
            J. A. W.
         
         
            THE POTTAWATTOMIES
            
            Miss Frances Emerson, of 
                        Plymouth
                    , has recently presented the library with a valuable collection of books and pamphlets
                    relating to these Indians. Recent interest in this tribe of Indians is largely due to the efforts of
                    the late Daniel McDonald, of 
                        Plymouth
                    . As a member of the house of representatives in 1905, he secured an appropriation for a
                    monument to the Pottawattomies at Twin Lakes in 
                        Marshall county
                    . It will be recalled from history that here is where the tribe was assembled
                    preparatory to being transported to their new reservation in 
                        Kansas
                     in August, 1838. The address of Mr. McDonald in support of the bill for erecting the
                    monument is included in this collection. This address and another delivered by the same author at
                    the unveiling of the monument, September 4, 1909 (also included in the collection), deal with the
                    history of the tribe. Previous to this, Mr. McDonald, who was an editor at 
                        Plymouth
                    , had prepared and published a volume on the Removal of the
                    Pottawattomies. This volume of 59 pages the author published previously in 1899.
            In addition to these, Miss Emerson included a volume entitled Queen of the Woods,
                    by Leopold Pokagon, last chief of the band which bears his name. Pokagon was born at Pokagon
                    village, a few miles north of 
                        South Bend
                    , in 1830, and died near 
                  Hartford,
                            Michigan
               , January 25, 1899. Besides  this were three small booklets printed on birch bark paper,
                    entitled Algonquin Legend of South Haven, Algonquin Legend of Paw Paw
                        Lake, Pottawattomie Book of Genesis and the Red Man's
                        Rebuke, all by the old chief. The SURVEY acknowledges obligation for the
                    gift. All of the books are out of print and hard to find.
            THE JASPER COURIER
            
            Ben Ed Doane, editor of the Courier, has recently deposited with the library a
                    complete file, 60 volumes, of the Courier. This is the oldest paper in 
                        Dubois County
                    , having been established in 1858 by John Mehringer, Rudolphus Smith and Clement Doane.
                    Mr. Doane, father of the present editor, was the editor and manager. From then till now father and
                    son have conducted it. There are only a few papers in the State that have been edited so long by
                    father and son and still fewer that have unbroken files through so long a period.
            GROVER CLEVELAND
            
            The following letter is printed at the request of the Division of Archives and History of 
                        New York
                    : 
                  
                     
                        DEAB SIR—I should be grateful if
                                    friends of Mr. Cleveland who possess published addresses or other critical comment
                                    of historical value concerning his policies or character, or letters to or from him,
                                    or personal recollections of incidents connected with his life, which would be of
                                    interest in the preparation of a biography, would communicate as soon as practical
                                    with Mr. William Gorham Rice of 
                                        Albany
                                    . Any such comment, letters, and accounts of incidents will be
                                    acknowledged and will be carefully returned if the sender so desires.
                        It is my hope that Mr. Rice, aided by such material and by his own already existing
                                    collection, may feel disposed to undertake a biography of Mr. Cleveland during the
                                    ensuing year.
                        The assembled letters, comment, publications and records now proposed to be brought
                                    together, will be deposited ultimately in the State Library at 
                                        Albany
                                     for the use of Dr. John H. Finley, who some time ago invited Mr. Rice
                                    to collaborate with him, or whoever finally may prepare a definitive and documented
                                    biography. The collection thus deposited will also be of permanent value because of
                                    its accessibility to anyone who in the future may desire to obtain for historical or
                                    other purposes knowledge of Mr. Cleveland's traits, and his opinions and
                                    administrative record on public questions.
                        Mr. Rice was a secretary to Governor Cleveland in 
                                        Albany
                                     and was  later, by President
                                    Cleveland's appointment, a 
                                        United States
                                     Civil Service Commissioner at 
                                        Washington
                                    , and is now a 
                                        New York
                                     State Civil Service Commissioner. He was associated with Mr. Cleveland
                                    from 1882 onward, and was always an esteemed and devoted friend.
                        Inquiries concerning the requests and suggestions made in this letter may be
                                    addressed to Mr. Rice at his residence, 135 
                                        Washington
                                     Avenue, 
                                        Albany
                                    , or at the Capitol, 
                                        Albany
                                    .
                        I am, very truly yours, FRANCES F. CLEVELAND PRESTON.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            
               Year Book of the State of Indiana for the year 1917. Compiled and published under
                    the direction of JAMES P. GOODRICH, Governor. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1918, pp. 883.
            "The Indiana Year Book provided for by the legislature of 1917, and
                    herewith presented, is the first attempt of this State to give to the people in simplified and brief
                    form a report of the operation of the various offices, departments and institutions, together with
                    such documents, facts and statistics as make up a general reference work for the State."
            Of late the publication of the reports of the various State officers has come to be a serious
                    financial burden. Moreover, no one cared to have his private library monopolized with the twenty to
                    seventy volumes of annual and biennial reports. It is the purpose of the governor to give the people
                    a simplified yet complete report of the State governmental business in a handy single volume. The
                    movement is altogether commendable. The volume is well edited, well printed, on good paper and
                    substantially bound. Such a volume can scarcely be reviewed. It is a political encyclopedia of the
                    State and is without doubt the most valuable State publication so far issued by the State.
         
         
            
               Reconstruction in 
                            Louisiana
                         after 1868. By ELLA LONN, Ph.D.,
                    Assistant Professor in Grinnell College. G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1918. Pp. vi, 538,
                    $3.00.
            The field covered by Dr. Lonn's book is one of great difficulty. The partisan bitterness
                    aroused by the struggle is still in the atmosphere. The documents on which the history must rest are
                    all full of partisanship. The author has rightly preserved in her story enough of the contemporary
                    expression to  give the reader a sense of this characteristic
                    period. The story is told with commendable reserve and impartiality. There is ample evidence that
                    the sources have been used liberally. There has been a tendency in the last decade by writers on
                    Reconstruction to condemn without reserve the carpet-bag government. It seems that the mantle of
                    charity which is used so freely might be used with more impartiality in this regard.
            Sweeping generalizations in history are easily made. Except mere physical description they constitute
                    the cheapest filler for the historian and likewise cause the most trouble. From this moralizing Dr.
                    Lonn has wisely refrained. Barring a few typographical errors and lapses of the pen, the volume
                    contains little for adverse criticism. On the other hand, the author is entitled to great praise for
                    a patient investigation of a difficult subject. Dr. Lonn is a native of Indiana, her home being at
                    Laporte.
            L. E.
         
         
            The current number (4) completes the first volume of the 
                  
                            Western Pennsylvania
                         Historical Magazine. The current number is taken up almost entirely with a
                    history of Allegheny, by Charles W. Dahlinger. The story begins with 1783 and closes with 1906, when
                    Allegheny was consolidated with Pittsburg.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
