
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 80, Issue 4, pages 301-424. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:80+issue:4+year:1984&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Agent of Empire:
            William Conner on the Indiana Frontier, 1800–1855
            John Lauritz Larson and David G. Vanderstel∗
            
            Two hundred miles southwest of 
                        Detroit
                    , deep in the virgin forests of central North America, the placid, winding White River
                    slowly drained ancient woodlands. In these dense forests, river valleys like this one had made homes
                    for fur-bearing animals and for people who hunted them, time out of mind. Here, about 1800, the
                    Delaware Indians were establishing new homes. They had been pushed out of Ohio by the relentless
                    advance of American white settlers. A century of resistance had ended in disaster. Now they were
                    well inside the region that was protected "forever" as Indian country by a treaty
                    with the 
                        United States
                    , and they hoped for peace through accommodation. The Delawares were a people not easily
                    moved from the land of their fathers, but the country they entered was superficially like that they
                    had left. Along the White River they found natural prairies—treeless floodplains that
                    broke the beech and maple canopy with brilliant patches of sunlight — which made
                    excellent sites for villages of farming women and hunting men. At least here they could resettle
                    themselves far from the press of American pioneers.
            In the autumn of 1800 the Delawares welcomed into their midst William Conner and his brother John,
                    sons of a white trader who had lived among them in missionary towns in Ohio and a 
                  
                     ∗ John Lauritz Larson is an assistant professor of history
                            at Purdue University. David G. Vanderstel is senior historian at Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement, 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana. The authors wish to acknowledge the cooperation and support of Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement in conducting their research.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXX (December, 1984). ©1984, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     French woman who had lived from infancy with the Shawnees. The
                    younger Conners were fur traders connected with that vast commercial network centered around 
                        Detroit
                    , which exchanged the natural products of forest and stream for the manufactures of
                    modern society. The Delawares trusted the Conners as friends. They were not yet fully aware that the
                    very presence of white traders guaranteed once more the destruction of Indian peace, for the Conners
                    were servants of a commercial advance that thrust outward from frontier centers and brought the
                    "wilderness" within the system of American enterprise, and eventual conquest, long
                    before the arrival of farming pioneers.
            The 
                        United States
                     was born of a colonial society. By the time of independence the colonizing process was
                    habitual to generations of Americans of European descent. The process had always begun with
                    adventurers, traders, and missionaries mingling among the natives in their own
                    "primitive" world. These first intruders carried powerful features of expansive
                    European culture into the wilderness; chief among these alien forces was dynamic commercial
                    capitalism. Since the first purchases of corn, made at gunpoint in seventeenth-century 
                        Jamestown
                    , trade with American Indians had been unequal and often involuntary. By the nineteenth
                    century the permanence of white Americans and their aggressive culture had routinized the
                    exploitation. In the national period the early pioneers, agents of a new American empire, brought
                    the Indians more peacefully into dependency on white society's trade goods, its markets for
                    furs and forest products, and its mysterious credit systems.1
            
            In the colonial period British policy had been aimed at restricting intrusion on the
                    Indians' domain. American independence, however, loosed a vigorous new nation whose
                    ambitions would not be checked. As federal policy took shape in the early nineteenth century, Indian
                    removal quickly proved to be the only suitable response to white pressures for land and space. The
                    commercial penetration of Indian society led, not to permanent coexistence (as the British had once
                    hoped) but to further colonial expansion: the interaction of white traders with Indian communities
                    undermined the independent structures of native culture while erecting new structures of trade and
                    enterprise that made life in the wilderness possible for white pioneers. With the final 
                  
                     1 See Francis Jennings, The Invasion of America: Indians,
                                Colonialism, and the Cant of Conquest (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1975); for an older interpretation see Albert K. Weinberg, Manifest Destiny (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1935); for the language of empire see R.W. Van Alstyne, The
                                Rising American Empire (
                                New York
                            , 1974; orig. 1960).
               
                     confrontation over possession of the land, Indians found
                    themselves corrupted and inextricably linked to the white man's systems.2 It is in this larger process of expansion and subjugation that the
                    frontierspeople—men and women—found their historical importance. True, they
                    were often heroic individuals who struggled with harsh conditions and succeeded through
                    extraordinary personal exertion, but they were also agents of the advancing empire, outriders for an
                    expansive culture. They carried the instruments of empire forward, deep into Indian country. Some
                    were Christian missionaries, more were agents of trading companies, while a few were simply
                    misanthropic adventurers. All were engaged, however, in pushing back the American frontier.3
            
            William Conner was one of these agents of empire, and his story reveals with unusual clarity the
                    central role of enterprise as the primary constant in a frontier life that offered wrenching
                    changes. While his individual contribution was not grand, his role in a larger network of traders
                    and intruders illustrates the actual dynamics of frontier advance. Conner was born on the late
                    colonial frontier, the son of an earlier commercial pioneer. He grew up in communities of Christian
                    Indians led by Moravian missionaries; he took to commerce with the Indians as his natural
                    occupation; and he settled eventually among the Delawares of the Indiana Territory. For nearly
                    twenty years Conner lived with the Delawares, keeping house and making a family, trading white
                    man's goods for furs and skins, yet all the while serving as an agent of the eventual
                    removal of his Indian hosts. When that day came, Conner's Delaware wife and children
                    departed with the tribe; William stayed in Indiana, exploiting his considerable wealth and
                    invaluable head start to become a natural leader in the new white community. Another twenty years
                    saw the completion of that dramatic process of community building for which the frontier is justly
                    famous. Only then did William Conner retire from his place at the center of his fast-growing local
                    community.
            
               
                  2 See Robert D. Mitchell, Commercialism and Frontier:
                            Perspectives on the Early Shenandoah Valley (
                            Charlottesville
                        , Va., 1977) for one analysis of this subject. The importance of cross-cultural
                        trade in forming Indian policy has been argued recently by Robert A. Trennert, Indian Traders on the Middle Border: The House of Ewing, 1827–1854 (
                            Lincoln
                        , Neb., 1981). See also Francis Paul Prucha, American Indian Policy in
                            the Formative Years (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1962).
               
                  3 Frederick 
                            Jackson
                         Turner's classic statement of the significance of the frontier in American
                        history clearly recognized this collective, structural contribution by the pioneers; however,
                        subsequent glosses on Turner have often emphasized the abstract individual in contest with the
                        elements, leaving an impression that heroic individuals, not the commercial system, conquered
                        the American wilderness. See Frederick 
                            Jackson
                         Turner, "The Significance of the Frontier in American History,"
                            Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1893 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1894), 199–227.
            
            
            William was not the first pioneer Conner, for in many ways his life paralleled that of his father,
                    Richard. The elder Conner was born in 1718 in colonial 
                        Maryland
                    . As a young man in his twenties Richard Conner entered the Pennsylvania wilderness in 
                        Lancaster County
                    , possibly engaged in the fur trade. There he married Margaret Boyer, a young white
                    woman held captive since childhood by the Shawnee Indians. Conner ransomed his bride for two hundred
                    dollars and the promise to give their firstborn son to the tribe. Theirs was an Indian marriage
                    without Christian documentation, and the Conners continued to live among the Shawnees for several
                    years to come. Born in 1771, their first son, James, was delivered to the Indians. By 1773 Richard
                    and his wife were living in southeastern Ohio in a Shawnee and Delaware settlement known locally as
                        Connerstown.4
            
            According to the Reverend David Jones, a Christian missionary traveling through the Indian country in
                    1773, Richard Conner kept a "sort of tavern" in a village otherwise composed of
                    Indian lodgings, some of them "good log houses well shingled with nails." Conner
                    seemed quite thoroughly established, and he indicated he was about to "proceed to
                    farming." Jones reported that Margaret Conner was a sister of the white wife of
                    "the chief Indian of this town," and he assumed that explained Conner's
                    presence in an alien place. He found Richard to be a tough man, one who seemed "not to fear
                    God" nor "regard man." In sum, Jones concluded that Conner was
                    "not what he should be, yet he was kind to me."5
            
            Not long after Jones's visit, David Zeisberger, a leader of Moravian missions to the
                    Indians, spent an evening with the Conners. They talked "‘half the night about
                    salvation and all that is involved.’" It is impossible to tell what this
                    encounter might have had on young Margaret or her much older, hard-bitten husband, but events and
                    feeling conspired quickly to bring the Conners into a close and lasting alliance with Zeisberger and
                    his missions. When renewed warfare between Americans and the Shawnees drove the Conners from their
                    home, they resettled in February, 1775, at Zeisberger's mission in Schoenbrunn, 
                        Ohio
                    .6
            
            
               
                  4 Charles N. Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness: John and
                            William Conner (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1937), 9–13.
               
                  5 Reverend David Jones, A Journal of Two Visits Made to Some
                            Nations of Indians on the West Side of the River 
                                Ohio
                            , in the Year 1772 and 1773 (
                            New York
                        , 1865), 87–88, quoted in Thompson, Sons of the
                        Wilderness, 12–13.
               
                  6 Edmund De Schweinitz, The Life and Times of David
                            Zeisberger, the Western Pioneer and Apostle of the Indians (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1870), 425; Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 14–16.
                        The quotation is from the Diary of the Moravian Mission to the Indians, Schoenbrunn on the
                        Muskingum, May 4, 1775, cited in Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 14.
            
            
            The presence of the Conners at Schoenbrunn was extraordinary. Zeisberger's towns were
                    strictly reserved for Christian Indians and their ministers—a rule made absolutely
                    necessary by the interracial strife that plagued the region. Only rarely were whites permitted to
                    settle in Moravian towns, and few of these were invited to stay after a year of probationary
                    residence. But the worlds of David Zeisberger and Richard Conner and his sons intermingled for the
                    next thirty years. John Conner (1775) and William (1777) were born at Schoenbrunn and baptized into
                    the congregation. James Conner (1771), the firstborn son, was ransomed from the Shawnees and brought
                    there to live as well. Richard and Margaret participated in the life of the settlement apparently
                    without reservation, even moving with the Moravians from town to town. Still Richard's
                    position in the community was never clear. He seemed to be a farmer and a trader, and he may have
                    served as an interpreter. He did not become a preacher, but the Moravian missions somehow had become
                    Richard Conner's point of connection with the Indians of the territory northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    .7
            
            During the American Revolution Zeisberger's Moravians—and with them the
                    Conners—were driven north by the British into Michigan country. The Conners followed the
                    Moravians to the 
                        Clinton
                     River, north of 
                        Detroit
                    , where they remained through the war. When the missionaries returned to their labors in 
                        Ohio
                    , however, the Conners stayed in their Michigan home. Why Richard stayed is not certain,
                    but apparently whatever commitment he felt toward Zeisberger was overcome by the lure of
                    opportunities on the edge of the new 
                        United States
                    . Conner bought over four thousand acres of land and helped establish what was later
                    Macomb County, 
                        Michigan
                    . He was instrumental in creating the town of Mt. Clemens, and he set up an important
                    trading post for southeastern 
                        Michigan
                    . Richard Conner lived another twenty years in 
                        Michigan
                    . He died in 1807 at the age of eighty-nine, leaving his family well connected and
                    possessed of a frontier fortune in virgin land.8
            
            So much of the father would not be relevant if it did not foreshadow the story of the son. William
                    Conner's life bore a 
                  
                     7 Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness,
                            16–22; De Schweinitz, Life of David Zeisberger,
                            371–73, 375–76.
                  
                     8 Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness,
                            35–36; Eugene Bliss, trans. and ed., Diary of David Zeisberger, a
                                Moravian Missionary among the Indians of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1885), ,1 265–66, 434; History of
                                Macomb County, 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 200–212, 522; Henry A. Ford, "The Old Moravian
                            Mission at Mt. Clemens," Pioneer and Historical Society of Michigan
                                Collections, X (1888), 114–15; Robert F. Eldredge, Past and
                                Present of Macomb County, 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1905), 562–63, 567–68.
               
                     ghostly resemblance to his father's, though played out
                    on a newer frontier. The Conner brothers received parcels of Michigan land from their father around
                    1796, but William would not yet be confined to the farm. At about age eighteen William Conner
                    settled in the Saginaw Bay region of Michigan and began to trade with the Indians. Little is known
                    of his whereabouts until the winter of 1800–1801, when he turned up exploring the central
                    forests of Indiana Territory.
            William Conner and his brother John apparently moved to Indiana as agents for Angus Mackintosh, a
                    Canadian fur dealer located at Sandwich, 
                        Ontario
                    , near 
                        Windsor
                    . In October, 1800, they took up residence among the Delaware Indians along the west
                    fork of White River, where there was "a good appearance of a hunt… this
                    season." Mackintosh seemed pleased to have the Conners establish themselves in this area.
                    He urged John to watch the competition and to "run about among the Indian Camps"
                    as the other traders did. In January, 1801, Mackintosh reiterated his confidence in the Conners, but
                    by spring their business connection was dissolved. When Moravian missionaries resumed their ministry
                    to the Delawares in May, 1801, John and William were already settled among them. John resided in
                    Buckongahela's Town (see map on page 307); William possibly lived nearby in Chief
                    Anderson's village.9
            
            By November, 1801, the Conners were licensed to trade with the Indians at the Delaware towns along
                    the west fork of the White River. Their location was not accidental. They had explored the region
                    for perhaps a year, and they knew its potential for furs and trade. The presence of the Delawares
                    and their Moravian ministers simply reproduced the environment in which the boys had grown up. John
                    had already married a Delaware woman and adopted the Indian life. In 1802 William followed suit,
                    marrying Mekinges, the daughter of Chief William Anderson, and moving to a site twenty-five miles
                    downstream from her father's village. This would remain his home for thirty-five years.
                    Whatever it was that brought harmony and profit to this triple alliance of Moravians, Delawares, and
                    Conners was at work once more.10
            
            
               
                  9 Angus Mackintosh to John Conner, July 3, 1800, October 18, 1800, January
                        13, 1801, Mackintosh to William Conner, June 30, 1801, Burton Historical Collections (
                            Detroit
                         Public Library). See also "Autobiography of Abraham Luckenbach,"
                        in Lawrence Henry Gipson, ed., The Moravian Indian Mission on White River: Diaries
                            and Letters, May 5, 1799, to November 12, 1806 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                        XXIII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1938), 605; and Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness,
                        43–46.
               
                  10 Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness,
                    43–50.
            
            
            
               WHITE RIVER COUNTRY, CA. 1812. TOWN NAMES IN PARENTHESES INDICATE FUTURE SITES.
               Map prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi and adapted from N. Thompson, Sons
                            of the Wilderness: John and Willian (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XII: 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1937).
            
            
            In 1803 John Conner moved back toward civilization to the Whitewater Valley, just inside the frontier
                    of settlement. Now the commercial network was complete. William collected skins and pelts from the
                    interior Indian settlements and shipped them out to brother John, who sold the furs and supplied his
                    brother with the trade goods and whiskey required by his customers. The Conners frequently supplied
                    the Moravians as well. Finally, it was during this period that John Conner began serving as an
                    interpreter between the Delaware Indians and the rapidly encroaching American government.11
            
            The Conners appeared to have immersed themselves in the culture and lifestyle of their Indian
                    friends, but their very presence among the Delawares and their increasing role as liaisons to the
                    white society guaranteed the destruction of Indian civilization in the White River country. The
                    Indian trade was never an equal exchange. The fur trade placed powder and ball, iron tools,
                    blankets, decorative trinkets, and addictive whiskey into Indian hands. Dependency and corruption
                    inevitably resulted. Furthermore, the trade brought white people into Indian country and induced
                    further immigration. Regardless of their intentions (which cannot be verified) William Conner and
                    his brother undermined the fragile civilization which the Delawares had so recently transplanted to
                    White River. John Conner's relocation in 1803 to the Whitewater Valley—a white
                    settlement where federal restrictions on Indian trade did not extend—gave him an added
                    advantage in exploitative commerce. Straddling the line between two cultures, John now played an
                    active role in the final exploitation of the White River tribes. William's place, however
                    removed from the scene of the confrontation, was only superficially less disastrous to the
                    Indians' future.
            In the larger scheme of American history from 1800 to the War of 1812, a number of factors ensured
                    repeated conflict in the western territories. Land hunger and the accelerating migration of 
                        United States
                     citizens into the interior had already produced two new states in the West by 1800 and
                    would produce two more by 1812. Thomas Jefferson's purchase of Louisiana in 1803 secured
                    forever the mouth of the Mississippi River, the natural outlet for interior travel and commerce. The
                    Treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    
                    
                  
                     11 Charles B. Lasselle, "The Old Indian Traders of
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, II (March, 1906), 6;
                            Augustus Finch Shirts, A History of the Formation, Settlement and Development
                                of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                , Indiana (
                                Noblesville
                            , Ind., 1901), 6–7, hereafter cited by the title on the binding, Primitive History of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                ; Frederick J. Barrows, ed., History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1917), 153.
               
                     in 1795 had opened much of the future state of Ohio for white
                    settlers, while it set aside the rest of the Northwest Territory as an Indian reservation. Far from
                    ending displacement, this treaty set the stage for future cessions and the steady removal of the
                    Indians from the trans-Appalachian region. Finally, the continued presence of the British in North
                    America, and their pragmatic alliance with Indians hostile to American immigration, lent an
                    international dimension to interior conflict.12
            
            Resident whites in Indian country were essential participants in the process of Indian removal.
                    William Conner did not officially act as government servant until 1811, although his brother John
                    often served territorial governor William Henry Harrison in either a military or civilian capacity
                    after 1807. William did profit from the lucrative new business that accrued from negotiations with
                    local tribes for cessions of land in return for annuities, payment of debts, and travel supplies. It
                    was in response to intense pressure for land cessions from Governor Harrison that the Shawnee holy
                    man, The Prophet, began organizing resistance among the resident Indians. The Delawares maintained
                    their confidence in the Conners through these troubled years before the War of 1812, and they tried
                    desperately to stay out of hostilities. It is ironic that the Indians placed their faith in the men
                    who had sold them whiskey, aided their enemies, and brought such pressure to bear on their crumbling
                    freedom. On the other hand, their alternative was to follow The Prophet in an ill-starred resistance
                    that would surely fail and might yield no payment at all for their lands.13
            
            The irony of their situation was not lost on the Indians; yet their white neighbors seemed strangely
                    untroubled by contradictions. With no apparent sense of conflict William Conner could leave his
                    Delaware wife and children, in 1812, to ride with General Harrison at the Battle of Mississinewa,
                    and he could help identify the body of Tecumseh, the great Shawnee leader who was triumphantly slain
                    in 1813 at the Battle of the Thames. Conner served variously as a scout, spy, interpreter, guide,
                    and briefly 
                  
                     12 See Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Trans-Appalachian
                                Frontier: People, Societies, and Institutions, 1775–1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1978), chapters 1–6.
                  
                     13 William Henry Harrison to Henry Dearborne, September 25, 1807, in
                            Logan Esarey, ed., Governors Messages and Letters: Messages and Letters of
                                William Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections,
                            vols. VII, IX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), I, 242, 247; Photostatic Copies of the Muster, Pay
                            and Receipt Rolls of Indiana Territory Volunteers or Militia of the Period of the War of
                            1812, Deposited in the Office of the War Department of the 
                                United States
                             Adjutant General's Office, II, 393–96, III,
                            464–66; John Johnston to Secretary of War William Eustis, October 6, 1809, in
                            Gayle Thornbrough, Letter Book of the Indian Agency at 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , 1809–1815 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            XXI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1961), 70–71. See also Trennert, Indian Traders,
                            chapters 1–2.
               
                     as a private in the army. After 1813, when he was released from
                    regular army service, he remained in the pay of the federal Indian agency as an interpreter for
                    treaty negotiations. Over the next several years eight treaties were signed at which William Conner
                    was present as an interpreter or witness. Each document ceded Indian lands to the whites and removed
                    the original owners to ever-smaller reservations or to the trans-Mississippi West.14
            
            Logically, men like William and John Conner might have feared the advance of the frontier, for with
                    the arrival of the immigrants came the end of the fur trade and the easy life of white men in Indian
                    society. Yet the Conners were increasingly active in the removal of Indians from central Indiana.
                    The reason can be seen in the roles they played, roles that plausibly connected their original
                    "agency" with the process of displacement that they now furthered. Although force
                    was often used and always threatened, persuasion was the preferred instrument of American Indian
                    removal. Government policy dictated almost endless rounds of negotiations resulting in treaties that
                    promised certain lands in exchange for others—at least until the next time. Like the
                    Indian trade itself, these negotiations were unequal exchanges: the language and the law were
                    strictly American. Interpreters to the Indians often held the key to federal success because they
                    alone could "persuade" the tribes to ratify the treaties. Furthermore, despite
                    federal regulations to prevent exploitation, resident traders had usually ensnared the Indians in
                    credit purchases that left them virtually "mortgaged" to their American suppliers.
                    When negotiations began for cessions of land or removal of tribes, Indian traders like the Conners,
                    who had lived among the natives, knew their languages, enjoyed their confidence, and carried large
                    debts in their behalf, were at once intermediaries and interested principals at the bargaining
                        table.15
            
            Conner's life among the Delawares was coming to an end, and a personal contradiction
                    inherent in his life and work would 
                  
                     14 Treaty with the Wyandot, 
                        Greenville, Ohio
                     ,
                            July 22, 1814; Treaty with the Wyandot, Rapids of the Miami in 
                                Ohio
                            , September 29, 1817; Treaty with the Potawatomi, St. Mary's, 
                                Ohio
                            , October 2, 1818; Treaty with the 
                                Delaware
                            , St. Mary's, 
                                Ohio
                            , October 3, 1818; Treaty with the Miami, St. Mary's, 
                                Ohio
                            , October 6, 1818; Treaty with the Potawatomi, Mississinewa, Indiana, October
                            16, 1826; Treaty with the Miami, Mississinewa, Indiana, October 20, 1832. Treaty with the
                            Potawatomi, Camp 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , Indiana, October 20, 1832. These treaties may be found in Charles J. Kappler,
                            ed., Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties (5 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1904–1941), volume II.
                  
                     15 Trennert, Indian Traders, chapters 1, 2, 4, gives
                            a detailed account of the dependency of the Indians and the influential role of the resident
                            traders in shaping government policy, based on a large collection of private papers and
                            correspondence.
               
                     soon be manifest. The War of 1812 had broken forever the
                    Indians' military resistance; with the return of peace Indiana joined the Union in 1816.
                    Most of this new state was still legally Indian country, and the federal government immediately
                    moved to secure clear title to the whole area occupied by Delawares, Miamis, Potawatomis, and Weas.
                    Negotiations were extremely complicated. As Indiana Governor Jonathan Jennings explained in 1818 to
                    Secretary of War John C. Calhoun, the "claims of the several tribes … were so
                    interwoven by treaty and tradition" and such "clanish [sic]
                    jealousies and suspicions" existed among the Indians, that the government was required to
                    strike a separate bargain with each tribe.16 The governor identified only half
                    the problem. Adding to the confusion were the needs and ambitions of white traders who held Indian
                    debts (often fraudulently padded), sought rich contracts for provisioning the departing tribes, and
                    demanded private reservations of land for friendly chiefs, mixed-bloods, and others who later could
                    be persuaded to sell these tracts to their "friends" for a few cents per acre. The
                    whole complicated issue was taken up at the general conclave held in 1818 at St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    . It was here that William Conner helped his family and friends decide the terms of
                    their removal.
            Considering the complexity of the claims and the inevitability of removal for the White River
                    Delawares, Chief Anderson's confidence in his son-in-law William Conner was still the best
                    advantage he possessed. At the same time, it seems clear from fragmentary evidence that Conner
                    worked in close cooperation with Governor Jennings and the leading white politicians who were
                    guiding negotiations to a favorable end. On October 3, 1818, relatively early in the convention, the
                    government concluded an agreement with the Delawares. All Delaware claims to Indiana land were
                    extinguished at the end of three years' time. The Indians were promised land in
                    southwestern Missouri on the James Fork of another White River. The 
                        United States
                     pledged to pay fair value for improvements on the Delaware farms, to supply provisions
                    and transportation for the journey west, and to pay perpetual annuities to the Delaware people.
                    Given the narrow limits of possible debate, the bargain was probably a good one. It ensured an
                    orderly and planned removal while providing for rapid and steady immigration by impatient white
                        settlers.17
            
            
               
                  16 Jonathan Jennings to John C. Calhoun, October 28, 1818, quoted in
                        Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 105.
               
                  17 C.A. Weslager, The Delaware Indian Westward Migration
                        (Wallingford, Pa., 1978), 214; see Article 2, Treaty with the Delawares, St. Mary's, 
                            Ohio
                        , October 3, 1818, in Kappler, Indian Affairs,
                        II, 170.
            
            
            For William Conner the Treaty of St. Mary's marked a private crisis the dimensions of which
                    we cannot know. His dilemma was shared by every frontiersman who entered native society as a guest
                    and emerged as a conqueror. Private life and public action inexorably diverged; regardless of
                    personal motives, the crisis had to come. Conner's effective choices were two: he could go
                    with the Delawares and recreate his role as resident trader and American agent in their new Missouri
                    home; or he could remain on the White River and join in building a permanent white society. That
                    Mekinges might stay was probably ruled out by the unrelenting racism that would surely make her an
                    outcast in the eyes of the oncoming pioneers.
            The best clue to Conner's attitude toward Delaware removal lies in his decision to stay. He
                    might have gone with his family; his business partner William Marshall made that choice, but Conner
                    did not. Instead, like his father before him, he chose to exploit new opportunities as the frontier
                    caught and passed him. He probably profited from the Treaty of St. Mary's as a creditor and
                    as an interpreter, although evidence of his payments has not been found. In February, 1820, six
                    months before the Delawares left, Conner petitioned Congress for a grant of land "to remain
                    at the place" where he had been living "for the purpose of raising his family
                    (half breeds)." The petition was based on conventional appeals going back to a Wyandot
                    treaty in 1817, in which reservations of land were first allowed for the white husbands of Indian
                    women. Did he mean for Mekinges to stay? Was he belatedly seeking free land by false pretense for
                    his own enrichment? Or did he intend to share the value of that donation, as he reportedly did his
                    cash wealth, with Mekinges and the children at the time of their departure? It is impossible to know
                    because Conner's petition was tabled in the House. It was not until two years later that he
                    was given an imperfect title to his homestead in common with his now distant Indian wife and
                    heirs—a gesture that was worthless to him.18
            
            In all, for Conner, the removal of the Delawares was probably an inevitability without moral
                    dimensions. He probably shared with his contemporaries those assumptions about race, culture, 
                  
                     18 Jonathan Jennings to the U.S. Senate Committee on Public Lands,
                            December 21, 1819, petition of William Conner addressed to the Senate and House of
                            Representatives of the 
                                United States
                            , February, 1820, William Conner Papers (Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement, 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana). Copies of additional documents bearing on this request are also in
                            the Conner Papers. See Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness,
                            112–15.
               
                     and economic progress that characterized Indians as savages,
                    doomed to flee the advance of energetic white civilization. Eventually he came to articulate his
                    position among the Delawares as a benevolent visitor, a protector, and a friend. In 1829 in a
                    petition begging once more for clear title to the land around his White River farm, Conner explained
                    how "during the last war, before and since, he had lived among the Indians, and fed them
                    when they had not the means to do it; and at all times was engaged in preparing their minds for the
                    sale of their lands to the 
                        United States
                    ." To remove any hint of personal exploitation Conner insisted that Mekinges
                    had gone west with her people "in spite of his persuasions that she should
                        remain."19 At least in public language, Conner had found that
                    exquisite ambivalence from which the 
                        United States
                     as a nation treated individual Indians with decorum, respect, and legal pretense, while
                    destroying their collective existence. In his own mind, he had lived sincerely among them, had
                    traded fairly with them, and had even secured for them the best possible bargain for their removal;
                    but he was a white man and a trader, not a member of Delaware society but an agent of the American
                    advance. As if to punctuate his choice, Conner married a white woman not three months after the
                    Delawares left. Without breaking stride the old frontiersman became a builder in a new community.
            Elizabeth Chapman Conner was the seventeen-year-old step-daughter of a recent settler named John
                    Finch. In 1820, when William Conner proposed marriage, she was very possibly the only eligible woman
                    in residence among the handful of immigrants to the White River country. Conner's marriage
                    to Elizabeth proved that, despite his age (forty-four) and his long immersion in Delaware culture,
                    he intended to start life anew among his own people. The marriage forged an intimate link between
                    the recent settlers and the first pioneer, lending continuity to the process of frontier development
                    across two distinct phases. For two decades change had come rather slowly to Conner's
                    outpost on the river, but the frontier would vanish before the next score years had passed. Having
                    thrived on the passing of one civilization, Conner now sought his fortune in building up another.
            Much of William Conner's importance in the White River country derived from his early
                    residence. Until 1820 Conner's place was identified with a series of Delaware towns that
                    dotted 
                  
                     19 Petition of William Conner to the Senate and House of
                            Representatives of the 
                                United States
                            , [c. January, 1829], Conner Papers.
               
                     the riverbank from Conner's house north and east
                    toward Anderson's Town and beyond the present site of 
                        Muncie
                    . With the removal of the Indians, Conner's two-room log house was about the
                    only landmark left that white persons might recognize. When the state commissioners set out to
                    choose an interior site for the new capital of Indiana, they first met at Conner's house.
                    It was a place that many persons had seen before, and there at least they would find shelter and
                    hospitality while they prepared to explore the unsettled forests.20
            
            Located on a large natural prairie created by a great bow in the river, Conner's home was a
                    landmark for strangers as well. The original survey of 
                        Hamilton County
                     showed seven little triangles (possibly dwellings) on the site called
                    "Conner's Town." Other early sources identified
                    "Conner's Station" and "Connerstown" as a landmark on
                    the White River. When postal service finally began in December, 1823, it was Conner's
                    house, not the new town of 
                        Noblesville
                    , that first received the mail.21 Here was a destination for new
                    immigrants: the first newcomers to White River followed a trail, however primitive, leading to
                    Conner's door. In March or April, 1819, Solomon Finch and his family, 
                        Israel
                     Finch, Charles Lacy, George Shirts, Amasa Chapman, James Willason, and William Bush all
                    left 
                        Connersville
                     (John Conner's town in southeastern Indiana) and headed for William's
                    trading post. All but Shirts established themselves at Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                    , upstream two miles and across the river from Conner; Shirts set up house on
                    Conner's farm. Later that summer the new settlement grew with the arrival of John Finch,
                    his wife, and stepdaughter Elizabeth Chapman.22
            
            At least one of these immigrants, George Shirts, went directly to work for William Conner, and the
                    others quite probably called upon him for help or supplies as they struggled to make their new
                    homes. When the food ran out late in the summer of 1819, the 
                  
                     20 William Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana (
                                Oakland City
                            , Ind., 1907), 404; Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical
                                Collections, vols. XXIV-XXVI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), I, 211.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, February 25, 1822, and December 30, 1823; Nathaniel Bolton, Early History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and Central Indiana (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol I;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1853), 172–73; J. David Baker, The Postal History of
                                Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Louisville
                            , Ky., 1976), I, 64.
                  
                     22 Shirts, Primitive History of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                , 9; J. G. Finch, "What I Recollect of the Early Settlement of
                            Indiana," manuscript reminiscence in Conner Papers.
               
                     settlers bought corn from Conner's crib—at
                    a dollar a bushel according to one, a steep price by any standard. In 1821, according to J. G.
                    Finch's remembrances of his childhood in the White River settlement, at least one of the
                    Finch families relocated in order to work on the Conner farm. A black farmhand was reportedly there
                    already, together with George Shirts and his family.23
            
            Conner was clearly a resource for this infant community. He was "victualer" to the
                    immigrants, a role shared by all early frontier residents. New settlers often provided the only
                    market for the surplus products of the pioneers, and immigrants soon learned to carry money and buy
                    their provisions rather than haul bulky goods over bad forest roads. When local production outran
                    demand, Conner secured a keelboat from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to carry off the surplus.24 As the established man in the new
                    country, William Conner inevitably took the lead in these first few difficult years.
            Land was the object of every settler's ambition. By their early industry, the first settlers
                    hoped to gain an advantage in selecting new public lands. However there was risk in being first.
                    "Squatters" who ran ahead of required government surveys enjoyed no protection of
                    their property. The country around William Conner's home was first surveyed in 1821; the
                    auction was scheduled the following year at 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana.25 For the Finches and others at Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                     the sale was potentially threatening. They had built a few cabins and perhaps some
                    fence, and they had buried some loved ones already; but all could be lost if they failed to purchase
                    the tracts on which they lived. For Conner the prospect was even more chilling. He had lived two
                    decades on his large natural farm. He would not lightly be turned off his land.
            
               
                  23 Finch, "What I Recollect"; Robert B. Duncan, "Old Settlers" (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. II,
                        No. 10; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1894), 377–78; J. G. Finch to F. M. Finch, March 1, 1896, and February
                        1, 1899, Conner Papers.
               
                  24 J. G. Finch to F. M. Finch, March 1, 1896, Conner Papers. See also 
                            Mitchell
                        , Commercialism and Frontier.
               
               
                  25 The original survey of the Conner farm was done by W. B. Laughlin in
                        1821 and recorded in the Indiana state auditor's office, 
                            Indianapolis
                         (see Original Survey, Vol. 3, p. 80; Field Notes, Vol. 14, p. 281 ff). A copy of
                        Laughlin's drawing is in the Conner Papers. First sales were recorded in the register
                        of government land receipts, a copy of which is in the Archives Division, Indiana Commission on
                        Public Records, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Both this record and the deed records in the 
                            Hamilton County
                         recorder's office, 
                            Noblesville
                        , verify that the first entries came in autumn, 1822. See Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana: From Its Exploration to 1850 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1914; reprint 1970), I, 347, for a discussion of early land
                        sales, although Esarey accepts an apparently erroneous newspaper account of auctions in 1820,
                        1821, and 1822 in 
                            Indianapolis
                         rather than 
                            Brookville
                        .
            
            
            
               WILLIAM CONNER, PAINTED by JACOB COX, DATE UNKNOWN
               
               Courtesy Conner 
                            Prairie
                         Pioneer Settlement, 
                            Noblesville
                        . Indiana.
            
            Facing the prospect of losing his farm at the auction, William Conner exercised his rights under the
                    congressional act of May 7, 1822, which granted him a section of land on behalf of his Indian wife
                    and children. On August 31, 1822, he entered a claim to the land comprising his fields. Not
                    satisfied with the security of this estate, however, he purchased within the next month a total of
                    785 acres near his home and along the river. By the end of 1822 his investments in land had grown to
                    nearly one thousand dollars. Unlike most of his neighbors, Conner had ready money; his dealings with
                    the Indians and with their removal had left him sufficient cash to buy this virgin land. As the
                    largest holder in 
                    
                  ELIZABETH CHAPMAN CONNER, PAINTED by JACOB COX, DATE UNKNOWN
                  
                  Courtesy Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement, 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana.
                what soon became 
                        Hamilton County
                    , Conner made permanent that advantage that came from being there first.26
            
            In contrast to Conner, the Finches and their friends at Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                     did not fare well. John Conner, then living in 
                        Connersville
                    , immediately purchased the Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                    . The Finches and Shirtses claimed that John Conner suppressed news 
                  
                     26 Quantification of Conner's landholdings is taken from
                            abstracts of 
                                Hamilton County
                             deeds prepared by Katherine Mandusic McDonell for Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement. See Katherine Mandusic McDonell, "Landholding
                            Patterns in 
                                Hamilton County
                            , Indiana, 1821–1840" (unpublished report, Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Pioneer Settlement, 1982), for an analysis of these records.
               
                     of the auction until he had bought up their land, but the
                    charge cannot be substantiated. Conner intended to build a large mill at the site, and he may have
                    taken some pains to ensure his possession of the property. The Finches remembered being evicted
                    without payment for their improvements.27 Such displacement of squatters was a
                    recurrent hardship on the moving American frontier, but the era of illegal settlement along the
                    White River was too brief for the squatter's presence to make an impression. Except for
                    Conner, the Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                     settlers, and a small number of families along the river, settlement followed the
                    advent of institutions of government and control.
            
               
                        Hamilton County
                     came into legal existence on April 7, 1823. Indiana Governor William Hendricks
                    appointed a sheriff and charged him with holding elections for county commissioners, judges, and
                    other needed officers. John D. Stephenson was named clerk of this new democracy, and William Conner
                    served as treasurer. On May 12, 1823, the commissioners first met to lay out the boundaries of the
                    county and set in motion the machinery of local government.28
            
            Typically in a new country, the first residents figured prominently in the formation of civil
                    government. From a relatively small pool came the framers of organic documents and first
                    institutions. It was a feature of the nineteenth-century frontier, however, that the fluid period
                    was very short. Whatever equality the wilderness imposed on the pioneers quickly gave way to a
                    hierarchy of power. Government, politics, land, industry, and commerce all offered ready
                    opportunities for profit and advancement that were more dramatic than their counterparts in
                    established society. But freedom and equality notwithstanding, men like William Conner often played
                    a larger role because they were known leaders with resources to devote to community growth. For
                    example, the first commissioners' court met in May, 1823, at Conner's log house;
                    and while not all county functions took place at Conner's, his large brick home, finished
                    in late 1823, was the regular courtroom for both circuit justices and county officials for at least
                    two more years.29 Public facilities were capital burdens not easily shouldered
                    by a new community on the frontier, and prominence often went to those who had the wherewithal to be
                    generous at the start.
            
               
                  27 Shirts, Primitive History of 
                                Hamilton County
                            , 18.
               
                  28
                        Ibid., 45–47.
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 47, 60–62.
            
            
            
               THE CONNER HOUSE, BUILT 1823
               Courtesy Conner 
                            Prairie
                         Pioneer Settlement, 
                            Noblesville
                        , Indiana.
            
            William Conner and his brother John were probably the only men in early 
                        Hamilton County
                     who boasted long connections with Jonathan Jennings and the Whitewater faction that
                    ruled early Indiana; these relationships contributed to their early power. The Conners were
                    influential in the very creation of the new county, in the location of its seat of justice, and in
                    the appointment of its first officers. John Conner had served for four sessions in the Indiana
                    senate before he moved in 1822 to the Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                    . Once there he used his influence to secure legislation permitting a mill dam across
                    the White River. In 1825 John returned to the general assembly as a representative to the house.
                    William Conner served in various county offices through the 1820s before winning a seat in 1829 as a
                    state representative. William served for three sessions, none of them consecutive, with
                    undistinguished results.30
            
            Politics for William Conner was a means to an end, never an end in itself. If he wanted the power of
                    government to advance 
                  
                     30 Rebecca A. Shepherd et al., comps. and eds., A Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, Vol. I: 1816–1899 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980), 75–76. See also Indiana, House Journal
                            (1829–1830), (1831–1832), (1836–1837); and Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 166–68, 172–75.
               
                     an enterprise, to build a road, or to authorize some public
                    work, William Conner knew how to get it. He was faithful to his friends in the Whitewater
                    faction—Jonathan Jennings, James Noble, James M. Ray, and others—following
                    them first into Henry 
                        Clay
                    's National Republican party and then the Whig party of the 1830s and 1840s. In
                    1831 Conner attended the first Whig nominating convention ever held in Indiana, and he was a regular
                    delegate to his party's conventions for two decades thereafter.31 But
                    aside from securing useful influence, Conner left politics to the new breed of professionals who
                    understood the game.
            At the fringes of politics lay a field in which Conner kept a more prominent role: Indian affairs.
                    Although nearly all the Delawares moved west between 1820 and 1823, the Indian presence was hardly
                    gone from central Indiana. Conner often labored to relieve the occasional hostilities that erupted
                    between new settlers—who had never lived among the Indians—and friendly
                    natives who resided in Indiana or had come from the north to trade. He also helped mediate property
                    claims between local Indians and white settlers. Nevertheless, corruption of the Indian culture
                    continued apace as eventual removal loomed. In 1827 Conner lent his support to John 
                        Tipton
                    's scheme for removing the federal agency from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , where dealers in whiskey were debauching the natives until "riot and
                    drunkenness" ensued, too often terminating in "cruel murders."
                    Superficially cast in terms of protecting the resident Indians, the change of location really set
                    the stage for a new round of negotiations, land cessions, contracts, debt payments, land
                    speculations, and other profiteering associated with Indian removal. Conner still served at times as
                    interpreter for the government, as in an 1826 treaty with Potawatomis and Miamis, for which Conner
                    received another donation of land. By 1832 he was seeking appointment to a new federal commission
                    that would settle the terms for the final removal of the Indiana tribes.32
            
            William Conner was undoubtedly a trusted friend of the Indians of central Indiana; but it was profit,
                    in the final analysis, that governed his continuing role as an Indian liaison. Whenever 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, November 12, 1831; Thompson, Sons of the
                                Wilderness, 167. Conner is consistently listed in the Indiana
                            Journal through the 1840s as a delegate to Whig conventions and other functions.
                  
                     32 William Conner et al. to James Barbour,
                            [December, 1827], quoted in Trennert, Indian Traders, 29; Oliver H. Smith,
                                Early Indiana Trials and Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 51–53; Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness,
                            144, 156–57; Kappler, Indian Affairs, II, 273–77; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, April 25, 1826; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Gazette, April 18, 1826. See also Tipton Papers,
                            II, 508–509, 535, 589, 613, 644, and 650, for relevant correspondence.
               
                     he served the government in its dealings with the Indians,
                    Conner profitted in several ways. He was compensated directly for his services, either by payments
                    in money or donations of land. Conner was usually a creditor to the Indians, and he filed claims of
                    this sort for bills that would likely otherwise never be paid. Finally, the treaties promised
                    payments to the Indians in money and goods as well as provisions for their trek west. Conner was
                    often a bidder for contracts to supply the Indians at government expense. In 1827, for example, he
                    offered to provide two hundred hogs for two hundred dollars below the estimate given in a treaty
                    with the Miamis which he had helped to write just months before.33 To the end,
                    Indian removal proved to be a good business for Conner.
            Profit was the one continuity in William Conner's otherwise eclectic life. Whatever role he
                    played as Indian liaison, politician, and founder of 
                        Hamilton County
                    , Conner was above all else a capitalist. His overwhelming importance in the infant
                    economy of the White River country stemmed from wealth he accumulated during his years with the
                    Delaware people. Whether from furs, whiskey, or padded claims for unpaid Indian debts, Conner
                    gathered up money in the early 1800s. Among the first settlers, he alone could buy large amounts of
                    land and still have the capital to bring it into production.
            Capital formation on the frontier was a chronic problem which few men could solve.34 The prairie itself—over two hundred acres of treeless fields—was
                    Conner's first economic advantage. Newcomers would spend years cutting timber and grubbing
                    stumps before they could boast so much arable land. Probably under fence and producing wheat, rye,
                    and corn as early as 1823, Conner's farm was easily the largest in the county and provided
                    a living for a number of tenants or employees as well as the Conner household. About 1825 Conner
                    built a distillery that allowed him to export corn more economically as whiskey. In buying grain for
                    this purpose he created a market for the small surplus product of his struggling neighbors. Conner
                    bought large amounts of land which, although no records survive, he probably rented to farmers on
                    shares. Such tenancy often allowed families to defer their investment 
                  
                     33 William Conner to John 
                                Tipton
                            , March 1,1827, and April 19, 1827, William Conner to B. B. Kerchaval, April 20,
                            1827, Smith to Lewis Cass, April 27, 1827, Conner Papers. See Trennert, Indian
                                Traders, for more details on profits from Indian removal.
                  
                     34 For two recent discussions of frontier capital formation and
                            community development see John D. Haeger, The Investment Frontier (
                                Albany
                            , N.Y., 1981); and Don H. Doyle, The Social Order of a Frontier
                                Community: 
                           Jacksonville, Illinois
                        , 1825–70 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1978).
               
                     in land and concentrate their capital on clearing and planting.
                    Conner's own farming operation continued to be large until 1837, when he sold his White
                    River farm and moved his family to 
                        Noblesville
                    . Among his working assets at the time of the sale were numerous horses, brood mares,
                    and "several yoke of work Oxen."35
            
            Mills for grinding grain and sawing lumber were the first industrial plants required by a new
                    community. Once more the Conners were involved. Around 1824 John Conner invested his own wealth in a
                    mill at the Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                    . Fitted with grindstones, a saw, and a carding engine, Conner's mill produced
                    vital services for the farmers of the area. Even the construction of the dam and millrace created
                    jobs for the community. For most families a few days of paid labor brought in the scarce cash
                    required to buy land, pay interest on borrowed money, and pay taxes. After John Conner's
                    death in 1826, William operated the mill at Horseshoe 
                        Prairie
                     through tenants or partners. In 1844 the factory was entirely remodeled, fitted with
                    the latest machines, and placed in the hands of an Englishman who was hired to run them. Conner
                    advertised his mill as offering the "most modern" services for low prices payable
                    in wheat, flaxseed, beeswax, tallow, feathers, Ginseng, corn, oats, rye, rags, and wool!36
            
            The variety of exchange accepted at Conner's mill points to another key feature of the
                    American frontier: there was never enough money and seldom enough division of labor to support a
                    totally cash economy. Storekeepers often became clearing agents for complex exchanges that fell
                    somewhere between primitive barter and urban commerce. Like most other western merchants, William
                    Conner found that by keeping a retail store he could participate in trade at almost any level,
                    maximizing his opportunities for profit while retaining flexibility in a quickly changing market.
                    Merchants like Conner became produce vendors, import-export jobbers, retailers, wholesalers, credit
                    agents, and moneylenders in their tireless search for ways to exchange the surplus of the frontier
                    for the products and services of civilization.
            Many early western merchants, including William Conner, approached storekeeping in
                    "ventures" the way a coastal importer 
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, February 22, 1837. See Shirts, Primitive
                                History of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                , 25. John Tipton was a landholder of similar proportion to Conner and
                            routinely used tenants on his land, employing various terms. See Tipton
                            Papers, II, 395, 670–72, III, 72–73, 220–21,
                            271–72 for examples.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Noblesville
                            
                            Little Western, April 27, 1844; Shirts, Primitive History of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                , 21; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, February 29, 1840; Thompson, Sons of the
                                Wilderness, 132–60. The records of the court of county commissioners for 
                                Hamilton County
                            , September, 1838, p. 332, mention another mill owned by Conner, John D.
                            Stephenson, and Bicknell Cole, located just north of 
                                Noblesville
                            .
               
                     might invest in a single ship's voyage. Each
                    spring—and sometimes again in the fall—the merchant called in his accounts,
                    collected his money, and went east to purchase "a stock of goods." When the
                    merchandise arrived, the storekeeper advertised it for sale "at the best prices."
                    Ideally the goods were sold for cash, but most merchants took produce in trade and extended book
                    credit to regular customers.37 In this manner the merchant accumulated the small
                    change of the country as well as the surplus of the small farmers. Much of what little silver there
                    was in 
                        Hamilton County
                     might have flowed into Conner's hands each spring when he collected his
                    accounts. As a merchant of standing, Conner probably paid for his eastern purchases with bank paper
                    or bills of exchange, so the specie need not have left the country. The same silver then passed once
                    more into many hands as Conner bought hogs and corn in the autumn, or paid wages to workmen at the
                    mills or on his farms. As early as 1822 and continuing at least into the 1840s there is evidence of
                    Conner buying hogs and grain in large quantities, sometimes borrowing money from the State Bank of
                    Indiana to finance these agricultural speculations.38 As the markets fluctuated
                    and the seasons progressed, Conner invested in produce, livestock, and retail
                    goods—taking credits and debits of different description, trying to realize a profit at
                    each conversion, and increasing the circulation of money and wealth through the infant economy.
            Conner's storekeeping was almost always carried on with a partner. This was doubly
                    convenient. Conner usually stayed home to supervise his many enterprises while the partners traveled
                    to the East, and he gained a measure of financial protection against agents and employees who did
                    not share in the risk. In 1826 John Conner's death left William in charge of
                    John's store in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a partnership formed with Alfred Harrison. This partnership dissolved in 1833,
                    although Conner kept the real estate. In 1824 William first acquired a license to trade groceries
                    and imported goods in 
                        Noblesville
                    . With various partners he kept a store in that city throughout his active life. As late
                    as 1838 the firm of Conner, Stephenson & Cole kept an open account with John Jacob
                    Astor's American Fur Company in 
                        New York
                    , indicating a perpetuation 
                  
                     37 Numerous advertisements of Conner's ventures appear in the
                            local newspapers: see for example 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, October 17, 1826; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, April 9, 1829; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, July 23, 1831; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, May 5, 1832; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, June 9, 1832; and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, May 11, 1833.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, October 9, 1822; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, October 29, 1829; William Conner to Hervey Bates,
                            November 24, 1838, and December 25, 1840, Conner Papers.
               
                     of old trading patterns alongside the new. Finally, Conner
                    appeared as a partner in small country stores in surrounding towns such as Eagle Village, 
                        Boone County
                    , where his involvement was probably limited to capital investment and a
                    creditor's interest in management.39
            
            Partnerships often served as a means of investing in another man's business at a time when
                    retail banking was locally underdeveloped. In 1837, for example, William Conner and John D.
                    Stephenson entered into a partnership with John J. Will, a shoemaker in 
                        Noblesville
                    .40 It seems unlikely that Conner or his rich colleague Stephenson
                    spent much time at the cobbler's bench; rather, their interest was that of lenders, and the
                    partnership served in place of a long note or mortgage paper. Such expedient solutions to capital
                    shortages were typical in frontier communities, but institutions of modern capitalism were quick to
                    replace them. As early as 1834 William Conner was a subscription agent for the proposed
                    Lawrenceburgh & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad—one of the first business corporations in the region.41
            
            Land was the bedrock of frontier wealth, and Conner's great holdings provided him with the
                    best foundation among his peers. From the date of the first auction Conner steadily accumulated
                    property in 
                        Hamilton County
                     and elsewhere. By the time he left his White River farm in 1837, he owned some four
                    thousand acres in 
                        Hamilton County
                     alone. He had paid the government minimum of $1.25 per acre for almost every
                    parcel, so over time the accrued value of his holdings must have exceeded his investment. In
                    addition to this 
                        Hamilton County
                     acreage, Conner owned urban real estate in 
                  Indianapolis, Noblesville
               ,
                    and surrounding towns, and he owned considerable amounts of unimproved land in other counties as
                    well. He continued buying land at least through 1840, selling very little except for lots in towns
                    that he founded.42
            
            Among local speculators Conner was supreme. He owned over twice as much 
                        Hamilton County
                     land as the next largest holder, and his operations outside the county placed him in a
                    category 
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, April 25, 1826, and August 10, 1833; Shirts, Primitive History of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                , 50; Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 176; Samuel
                            Harden & George Lee Spahr, comps., Early Life and Times in 
                                    Boone County
                                , Indiana (
                                Lebanon
                            , Ind., 1887), 109. We are indebted to Carl P. Russell for the reference to
                            Conner's account with the American Fur Company (Russell to H. Roll McLaughlin,
                            January 24, 1962, a copy of which is in the Conner Papers).
                  
                     40
                            
                                Noblesville
                            
                            The Newspaper, November 16, December 7, December 14, and December 21,
                            1837.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, March 29, 1834.
                  
                     42 Data are taken from deed records in the Recorder's Office, 
                                Hamilton County
                            , 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana; see McDonell, "Landholding Patterns," 65.
               
                     above any of his neighbors. It is not clear, though, how Conner
                    intended to profit from his speculation in land. He borrowed money from banks for buying hogs and
                    farm produce, and he may have secured such debts with land. He may also have used his land
                    informally as evidence of his wealth when raising personal notes, commercial credits, and bills of
                    exchange. No personal account books survive in which transactions might have been recorded, but he
                    may have sold farms on credit, retaining the deed until the obligation was paid. Finally, for
                    Conner, land may have been a savings bank. In the highly inflationary and cash-short economy of the
                    Jacksonian West, there were few places to store wealth where it would not rapidly erode.
                    Conner's buying habits reflected a steady increase in his riches that outran his
                    opportunities for reasonable investment—or his willingness to risk anymore!
            Town founding was a special form of land speculation, and the successful investors in new western
                    towns were dramatically rewarded. In 1823 William Conner and Josiah F. Polk platted 
                        Noblesville
                    , the new county seat, on land they purchased from the federal government for
                    $1.25 per acre. They laid out streets and public areas, donated numerous lots for public
                    buildings, mechanics, industries, schools, churches, and later railroad depots. Their original
                    generosity helped bring the struggling village to life, and in the second decade the proprietors
                    were routinely accepting fifty dollars and more for lots that had cost them twenty-five cents. Town
                    founding, however, was not always so fruitful. Responding in 1836 to the promise of the Central
                    Canal, Conner invested in the 
                        Madison County
                     town of 
                        Alexandria
                    ; but the canal was never built, and the town failed to take off. Similarly in 1837
                    Conner platted Strawtown on the site of an old Delaware village along the original trace between his
                    trading post and his brother John's. Once again the site failed to prosper. Nevertheless,
                    Conner's profits from 
                        Noblesville
                     alone were magnificent.43
            
            By 1840 William Conner had been on White River for almost four decades. For half that time he had
                    lived practically unmolested in the wilderness beyond the American frontier. In the last twenty
                    years the frontier had arrived and surged beyond. In 1840 ten thousand persons lived in 
                        Hamilton County
                    , and scarcely a section of public land was left for sale. Conner had entered the 
                  
                     43 McDonell, "Landholding Patterns,"
                            16–18, 63–70; Shirts, Primitive History of 
                                    Hamilton County
                                , 22, 123; History of 
                                    Madison County
                                , Indiana (n.p., 1880), 114. Original plats are in the deed record
                            books at the Recorder's Office, 
                                Hamilton County
                            . Conner's profits cannot be figured from the information on the deeds;
                            but given five lots per acre, and assuming even a very conservative return of ten dollars
                            each, the gross return on investment was above 4000 percent.
               
                     wilderness and adopted the "savage" ways of
                    the American natives. He had used his own adaptability to conquer the forest and its people, to
                    extinguish the claims of the original residents, and to pave the way for American settlers with
                    their farms and villages, commerce and industry. He had demonstrated in his life how freedom of
                    enterprise motivated men to push back the American frontier.44
            
            Life in the wilderness was intensely individualistic, but frontiersmen like Conner never escaped the
                    systems of government and enterprise that linked them to organized society. On the contrary, they
                    were most often bearers of white culture and social institutions. During his early years among the
                    Delaware Indians William Conner was as far outside white civilization as a man might willingly go;
                    yet his reason for being there flowed from America's commercial penetration of the Indian
                    world. Except as an agent of the American empire Conner makes no historical sense. His business
                    depended on exploiting the difference in values between the Indian and white trading systems. His
                    importance to the Delawares derived exclusively from his ability and willingness to provide them
                    with goods and negotiate for them with the advancing aliens. The government's forbearance
                    in letting men like Conner live outside white jurisdiction—and frequently outside the
                    law—came from their usefulness as liaisons to the resident tribes. Without the profits of
                    the fur trade, without the eventual removal of the Indians and the arrival of white settlers,
                    Conner's presence in the West would have been a curiosity. Of course, Conner labored in his
                    own behalf: his life was governed most of all by the free pursuit of private gain. But in his
                    freedom and his enterprise William Conner brought the powerful new systems of expanding America into
                    the harassed and fragile Delaware world.
            It was Conner's decision to stay when the Indians left that helps to clarify his role as an
                    agent of frontier advance and development. Many traders never made the transformation back to white
                    civilization; for these men the role of intruder in a strange world carried its own rewards. That
                    was not enough for William Conner. He stayed to parlay his winnings from one period into the next,
                    and his bets continued to pay. His wealth, his understanding of the place, and simply his being
                    there first all contributed 
                  
                     44 Lee Benson argued this point in 1950 in an essay tracing Achille
                            Loria's influence on the young Frederick 
                                Jackson
                             Turner. See Lee Benson, Turner and Beard: American Historical
                                Writing Reconsidered (Glencoe, Ill., 1960), and a recent essay, "The
                            Historian as Mythmaker: Turner and the Closed Frontier," in David M. Ellis, ed.,
                                Frontier in American Development (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1969), 3–19.
               
                     to an early leadership that made him the founder of 
                        Hamilton County
                    . He seized natural resources that were practically free to firstcomers, he applied his
                    capital to improvements, and he matched opportunities with needs in the developing community.
                    Ironically the success of his efforts as a local developer hastened the passing of the frontier
                    conditions that nourished the old pioneer.
            The panic of 1837 and the depression that followed in 1839 marked the end of the frontier period in
                    much of central Indiana. Primitive economic structures went down in the wreckage and were replaced
                    by more sophisticated institutions of modern urban commercial society. The western land bubble
                    burst, and the chain of credits that rested on the rising value of unimproved land collapsed.
                    William Conner and other speculators suffered large paper losses as their primary form of investment
                    became a drug on the market. Conner's ability to raise cash was severely curtailed by the
                    depression. Time and again he forfeited property to judgments and sheriffs sales because it was
                    easier to give up land, for which there was no market anyway, than to raise cash to pay money debts.
                    The swirl of bankruptcies that began in 1839 continued to dominate business affairs in central
                    Indiana well into the 1840s, and in his seventieth year William Conner was still party to legal
                    proceedings both for and against him.45
            
            Conner was far from ruined by the depression of 1839, but he was finally displaced in the 1840s as a
                    fountainhead of local power. Despite his advanced age he continued to keep a store in 
                        Noblesville
                    , but his ledger for 1847–1849 records an old-fashioned country trade that
                    was little changed from the earlier pioneer days. While younger merchants built large inventories,
                    opened branch stores, and even specialized in a few lines of goods, Conner still sold
                    "mdse" in exchange for wheat, currants, feathers, and fowls. As late as 1850 he
                    laid in a "stock of goods" from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to be sold "at a small advance" on the original eastern price, but
                    business was surely no longer his main preoccupation.46
            
            In his final years William Conner exchanged his role as leader and local developer for that of
                    historical figure, a living connection 
                  
                     45 William Conner to Bates, November 24, 1838, December 25, 1840, John
                            D. Stephenson to Calvin Fletcher, August 24, 1845, Conner Papers. See 
                                Noblesville
                            
                            Little Western, August 31, 1844; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, October 12, 1839, August 16, 1843; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, October 15, October 28, and November 5, 1846, June
                            15, and October 11, 1847. See also William Conner to Richard J. Conner, May 4, 1849, Conner
                            Papers.
                  
                     46 William Conner account book, 1847–1849, Conner Papers;
                            William Conner to Richard J. Conner, January 6, 1849, and May 4,1849, ibid. See also 
                                Noblesville
                            
                            Plain-Dealer, December 26, 1850.
               
                     with a frontier past. Several times 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer and speculator Calvin Fletcher stopped at Conner's 
                        Noblesville
                     home, where talk turned to the early days, the Indians, and the hardships of making a
                    home in the forest. Recurrent political squabbles over who killed Tecumseh at the Battle of the
                    Thames brought back into focus Conner's early life, his great knowledge of Indian customs
                    and languages, his success as a trader, the confidence with which he walked in Indian society, and
                    his service to the advancing 
                        United States
                    .47 By midcentury there were over twelve thousand residents in 
                        Hamilton County
                    . Most of these people had not lived in the region of Indian occupation; for such new
                    "pioneers" the exploits of a man like Conner took on heroic proportions. The old
                    frontiersman must have enjoyed his last role as a sage of the forest and principal authority on
                    Indian life and lore. On August 28, 1855, William Conner died. Seventy-eight years was a generous
                    life-span, even more remarkable for one who had lived in a "primitive" style more
                    than half that time. He left a large estate, two families of children, and no last will and
                    testament. The Delaware Conners did return and sue for a share of their father's fortune,
                    but predictably the courts disallowed their claims. One unwritten condition of Conner's
                    reentry into white society was the renunciation of Indian ways: agents like Conner could not have
                    their forest idylls and empire too. By the time of Conner's death the Delawares were the
                    alien people in a 
                        Hamilton County
                     courtroom, and recognition of their continuing presence could not be sustained.48 The transformation of the Indiana wilderness was complete, the empire now
                    spanned a continent, and the contest between native peoples and white settlers continued in the
                    hands of new agents farther west on the moving American frontier.
            
               
                  47 See Gayle Thornbrough, Dorothy Riker, and Paula Corpuz, eds., The Diary of Calvin Fletcher (9 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1972–1983), V, 161–62; also Richard J. Conner to Josiah F.
                        Polk, September 24, 1851, Conner Papers.
               
                  48 Affidavit of Fabius Maximus Finch, 
                            Marion County
                        , State of Indiana, April 9, 1895, Conner Papers.
            
         
         
         
            The Architects Town and Davis and the Second Indiana Statehouse
            James A. Glass∗
            
            Before the Civil War the second Indiana statehouse was one of the principal architectural monuments
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the state of Indiana. The architectural firm that designed and built it, Town and
                    Davis of 
                        New York
                    , was a leader in the architectural profession of the period and gave the state its
                    first fully elaborated Greek Revival building. An inquiry into the design and construction of the
                    statehouse provides insights into a rarely investigated topic—the early architectural
                    history of Indiana.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    , the state capital, had been in existence for only ten years in 1831. The new
                    "City of Indiana," though laid out in the approximate geographical center of the
                    state, was situated far north of the settled areas, in the midst of a vast virgin forest. With only
                    Indian "traces," or trails, to serve as links with the outside world, 
                        Indianapolis
                     was isolated during its early years. In 1830 the capital could boast a permanent
                    population of about fifteen hundred, swelled somewhat when the state legislators arrived every
                    winter for their annual session. The only building of any size in 1831 was the original 
                        Marion County
                     courthouse, a modest, two-and-one-half-story brick building, where the legislature met
                    after moving to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1824–1825. The state capital was a struggling frontier village.1
            
            In 1830 the Indiana General Assembly decided that sufficient funds could be raised to erect a
                    statehouse by selling lots and outlots 
                  
                     ∗ James A. Glass, formerly historian on the staff of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Historic Preservation Commission, is presently a doctoral student at Cornell
                            University.
                  
                     1 B. R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 16, 19; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 62–63.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE of HISTORY, LXXX (December, 1984). ©1984, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     in the capital's "donation" lands.
                    James Blake was appointed a commissioner to advertise for architectural plans and to obtain stone
                    for the foundation.2 In May, 1831, Blake placed advertisements in at least seven
                    newspapers of local, regional, and national circulation, providing specifications for the building
                    and offering a premium of $150 for the best plans. The deadline for entries was November
                    10, 1831. The legislature would select the winning plans.3
            
            The competition attracted the attention of architects across the nation. On December 15 Blake
                    presented twenty-one plans from sixteen architects for the Indiana General Assembly's
                    consideration. Among the competitors were five of the leading architects of the day: Town and Davis
                    of 
                        New York
                    ; Thomas U. Walter of 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; Robert Mills of 
                        Washington
                    ; and William Strickland of 
                        Philadelphia
                    .4 All five were practitioners in the popular Greek Revival mode of
                    architectural design; thus, perhaps it was foreordained that the winning plan would be cast in that
                    style.
            The plan of Town and Davis, calling for a Greek Doric temple surmounted by a Renaissance dome,
                    emerged as the choice of the legislature's Joint Committee on Public Buildings at the end
                    of December.5 The full General Assembly awarded the premium to Town on January
                    26, 1832.6
            
            It is difficult to ascertain why the assembly selected the Town and Davis design. A comparison of the
                    winning entry with its competitors is impossible, since only Town and Davis's design has
                    survived. One explanation for the choice involves Town's fame as the architect of the
                    Connecticut statehouse at 
                        New Haven
                    , just completed in 1831 (see Figure A).7 The Connecticut design was
                    a Doric temple much like the Town and Davis design for the Indiana project; hence Town could present
                    himself as an experienced designer and builder of a statehouse in the Greek mode. Credit also
                    belongs to the persuasive powers of Ithiel Town. His presence in the midst of the legislators must
                    have given him a decided advantage 
                  
                     2 The U.S. Government gave the "donation" lands to
                            the state of Indiana for the site of the new capital. See Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 104, and Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 15–16.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, May 21, 1831.
                  
                     4 Indiana, Senate Journal (1831–1832),
                            87–89.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, January 3, 1832.
                  
                     6 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 104.
                  
                     7 Roger Hale 
                                Newton
                            , Town and Davis, Architects: Pioneers in American Revivalist
                                Architecture, 1812–1870, Including a Glimpse of Their Times and Their
                                Contemporaries (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 155–57.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE A: FORMER CONNECTICUT STATEHOUSE, COMPLETED IN 1831
                  Courtesy Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
                        New York, New
                        York
                     .
                over absent competitors.8 Furthermore, the high quality of the plans
                    drawn by the firm's junior partner, Alexander 
                        Jackson
                     Davis, probably influenced the decision. Although not yet thirty, Davis had already
                    become widely known in the East as a talented draftsman and delineator.9
                    Davis's diary for October, 1831, shows that he had prepared a plan for two floors and a
                    perspective view of the Indiana statehouse, which was "Taken out [to Indiana] by Mr. Town
                    himself." On December 7 Davis noted work on elevations, a section drawing, and other items
                    for the capitol.10
            
            On February 2, 1832, the General Assembly appointed three "Commissioners to Superintend the
                    Erection of the State House." The commissioners promptly contracted with Town to construct
                        
                  
                     8 Town was also nationally known for inventing the Town lattice truss
                            for bridge construction, a patented technique that he indefatigably promoted in many parts
                            of the country. While in 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1831–1832, Town sold a set of his bridge plans to the local
                            county commissioners for construction of a bridge over 
                                Fall Creek
                             for the 
                                Lafayette
                             Road, later Indiana Avenue. See ibid., 21, 42–46,
                            and Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 104–105.
                  
                     9 Talbot Hamlin, Greek Revival Architecture in America:
                                Being an Account of Important Trends in American Architecture and American Life Prior to
                                the War between the States (
                                New York
                            , 1944), 138–39.
                  
                     10 Alexander 
                                Jackson
                             Davis, Diary, 1827–1853, Alexander 
                                Jackson
                             Davis Papers (Manuscripts Division, 
                                New York
                             Public Library), 123, 125, 492.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE B: PERSPECTIVE VIEW by ALEXANDER JACKSON DAVIS of the SECOND INDIANA STATEHOUSE
                  
                  Labeled by Cathryn L. Lombardi: courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE C: "CAPITOL, INDIANA, PLAN of PRINCIPAL FLOOR," 1834, DRAWING by A. J. DAVIS
                  
                  Labeled by Cathryn L. Lombardi: courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE D: THE SECOND INDIANA STATEHOUSE AS COMPLETED
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                the building. The capitol's design was to conform to six drawings to be received
                    and approved by the General Assembly, including a perspective view, section, plans, and
                        elevations.11 The contract for construction specified that "All the
                    ornaments about the outside walls are … to correspond in character with the Doric Order
                    of the Parthenon at 
                        Athens
                    ."12
            
            Despite the contract's stipulation, Town and Davis designed a free adaptation of the Greek
                    Doric temple, which differed from both the Parthenon and the Connecticut capitol. The Indiana
                    building (see Figure B) was a Doric temple form with a pseudo-peripteral treatment (i.e., antae, or
                    pilasters, appeared along the 
                  
                     11 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, eds., Messages
                                and Papers Relating to the Administration of Noah Noble, Governor of Indiana,
                                1831–1837 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1958), 89–90.
                  
                     12 Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers,
                        98.
               
                     flank sides instead of true colonnades), in contrast to the
                    Parthenon, which was peripteral (a colonnade surrounded the whole temple). In addition, in each of
                    the two porticoes of the statehouse, only the end columns of the second rank were present, contrary
                    to the full, double ranks of the Parthenon (see Figures E and F). Of the sculptural adornments of
                    the Parthenon's exterior, only the triglyphs appeared in the Indiana version. Missing were
                    the sculptured figures in the tympanums, the carvings in the metopes, and the shields along the
                    architrave. Moreover, some of the embellishments depicted in Davis's perspective drawing
                    (see Figure B), such as the antefixes along the cornice, ridge of the roof, and at the base of the
                    dome, as well as the palmettes and anthemia shown at the apexes and ends of the pediments, do not
                    appear in later photographs and may never have been executed (compare Figures B and D).13
            
            On the other hand, the statehouse did feature octostyle porticoes and seventeen piers in the form of
                    either columns or antae along each of its flanks, thus reproducing the number of portico and flank
                    columns in the Parthenon (see Figures E and F). The pseudoperipteral combination of portico columns
                    and antae simulated the rhythm of the Athenian temple. Practical considerations, such as the need
                    for sufficient light in the interior chambers, possibly precluded a true peripteral colonnade.14
            
            The remaining exterior features of the Indiana capitol departed completely from the Parthenon. The
                    ribbed dome rose from a large drum with alternating projecting antae and recessed windows. Town and
                    Davis derived the dome and drum from a source in the Italian Renaissance, possibly
                    Bramante's Tempietto at 
                        Rome
                     (1502) (see Figure G).15 Crowning the dome was a lantern based on
                    the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates in 
                        Athens
                    , representing a return to Classical Greek architecture (see Figure H). When executed,
                    the elaborate culminating element of the Choragic Monument was omitted, leaving the lantern looking
                        unfinished.16
            
            
               
                  13 To compare the design of the Indiana statehouse to that of the
                        Parthenon, see the text and illustrations regarding the latter in James Stuart and Nicholas
                        Revett, The Antiquities of 
                                Athens
                             and Other Monuments of 
                                Greece
                            
                   (3d ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1892), 47–56.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., 54–56.
               
                  15 Town and Davis may have gained the inspiration for the dome from
                        illustrations in the books and treatises on Renaissance architecture in Town's
                        extensive library. See, for instance, Palladio's depiction of the Tempietto in the
                        Isaac Ware edition of the Four Books of Architecture (
                            New York
                        , 1965), The Fourth Book, plates XLIV and XLV.
               
                  16 Stuart and Revett, Antiquities of 
                                Athens
                            , 35–41.
            
            
            Town and Davis based the exterior details in large part on the numerous scholarly books published
                    during the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries about the antique architecture of 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                    . Beginning in the early 1820s, Town had collected a large personal library of books,
                    manuscripts, plates, art objects, etc. on a multitude of artistic and cultural topics. James Stuart
                    and Nicholas Revett's book The Antiquities of 
                            Athens
                         and Other Monuments of 
                            Greece
                        
                probably exerted the most influence on the early Greek Revival commissions of
                    Town and Davis.17 Exquisitely detailed measured drawings of the then-known Greek
                    monuments were presented, including the Parthenon and the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates.18 The Renaissance elements in the firm's designs may have been drawn
                    from such treatises and books as William Wilken's The Civil Architecture of
                        Vitruvius (1812) and Isaac Ware's edition of Palladio's Four
                        Books of Architecture
                    
                  FIGURE E: ELEVATION OF THE PARTHENON
                  
                  Reproduced from James Stuart and Nicholas Revett, The Antiquities
                                of 
                                    Athens
                                 and Other Monuments of 
                                    Greece
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1905), Plate XXIV.
               
                    
                  
                     17
                            
                                Newton
                            , Town and Davis, 48, 57. Davis noted in his diary that on
                            March 1, 1828, he made his first study of "Stuart's 
                                Athens
                            , from which I date Professional Practice." Davis Diary, 13.
                  
                     18 Stuart and Revett, Antiquities of 
                                    Athens
                                , 35–41, 47–56.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE F: SIDE VIEW of the PARTHENON
                  
                  Reproduced from Stuart and Revett. Antiquities of 
                                    Athens
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1905), Plate XXV.
               
                     (1738).19 In addition, Town may have been
                    attracted to certain Renaissance buildings during a European trip in 1829–1830.20
            
            Much of the plan of the Indiana capitol probably derived from the Connecticut statehouse design. In
                    both buildings, two legislative halls flanked a central rotunda.21 In the
                    Indiana building, both the "Representatives' Hall" and the
                    "Senate Chamber" were semicircular auditoriums occupying two stories (see Figure
                    C). An Ionic colonnade in each hall served as a screen from the lobbies and visitor galleries and as
                    additional structural support for the coved ceilings.22
            
            In plan the rotunda, drum, and dome were circular, the dome resting on a two-and-one-half-story,
                    brick cylinder (see Figures C and I). Contrary to the central, spiral stairway shown in the 1834
                    plan, the stairways were probably along the sides of the rotunda.23 The Supreme
                    Court room was adjacent to the rotunda, perhaps on the second floor. The committee rooms for the
                    legislature were on the first floor.24 Strangely enough, no provision was made
                    for a governor's office, a curious oversight, since Governor Noah Noble served as one of
                    the statehouse commissioners.25
            
            Town suggested to the commissioners in 1832 that the square north of the capitol site be combined
                    with Statehouse Square to form a single, oblong site corresponding to the shape of the building to
                    be erected. He probably found the intended site too restrictive for a building of the prominence of
                    a state capitol. He also recommended that the basement story of the statehouse be raised in height,
                    either to create a full basement or to enhance the building's monumental qualities on a
                    sunken site. The legislature 
                  
                     19 Both Wilken's Vitruvius and several
                            editions of Palladio's Four Books of Architecture are listed in
                            the Catalogue of Scarce, Valuable, and Rare Books, Ancient and Modern, Being
                                the Remainder of the Extensive Library of the Late Ithiel Town … (
                                New York
                            , 1848), a copy of which is in the Avery Library of 
                                Columbia
                             University, 
                                New York City
                            . Davis, in an unfinished, unpublished manuscript entitled "Classical
                            Architecture Derived: From the Antiquities of 
                                Greece
                             and Her Colonies. Being an Introduction to the Study of Architectural
                            Criticism," II Davis Collection (Avery Library, 
                                Columbia
                             University, 
                                New York City
                            ) refers repeatedly to Wilken's Vitruvius as a source
                            for his discussion.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Newton
                            , Town and Davis, 64–67.
                  
                     21 Henry-Russell Hitchcock and William Seale, Temples of
                                Democracy: The State Capitols of the U.S.A. (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 84–85.
                  
                     22 "Capitol of Indiana," Family
                                Magazine, V (1837–1838), 3.
                  
                     23 See report to the Indiana General Assembly of the
                            "Commissioners to Superintend the Erection of the State House," December
                            6, 1834, in Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers, 347–48.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 392; "Capitol of Indiana," 3.
                  
                     25 None of the contemporary sources examined mention a
                            governor's office in the capitol.
               
                     approved the greater basement height but failed to enlarge the
                        site.26
            
            Town supervised little of the construction. Instead, he hired Edwin J. Peck, a young man from
                            
                  New Haven, Connecticut
               , as superintendent of masonry charged with erecting the
                    foundations and brickwork of the building.27 Later, probably in 1833, one of
                    Town's veteran draftsmen, John Stirewalt, came from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to act as "chief architect," supervising the project as a whole on
                    Town's behalf. Stirewalt, who had just worked in 
                        New York City
                     on the firm's similar temple and dome design for the French Protestant Church
                    (1832), was instrumental in ensuring that the sophisticated Classical design principles were
                    faithfully followed in a frontier environment.28
            
            The exterior walls, columns, antae, and rotunda wall of the statehouse were brick. The foundation was
                    made of "blue, Bluff limestone" and brick. Laths covered the entire exterior
                    (walls, antae, columns, entablature, etc.), which was given two coats of stucco, the second of which
                    contained a mixture of lime and sand. The stuccoed facade was then scored to represent the joints of
                    ashlar masonry. Stained with mineral colors, the surface resembled stone even further.29 The interior structure of the capitol, except for the rotunda walls, was wood frame.
                    Plank ribs formed the dome, and the lantern, or "cupola," was of "wood
                    entirely." A zinc covering was specified for the roof of the building and for the dome.30
            
            In December, 1834, the statehouse commissioners announced to the legislature that the building would
                    be completed one year ahead of schedule.31 Town marked the occasion by sending
                    both houses of the General Assembly a new perspective view and principal floor plan by Davis showing
                    the statehouse completed (see Figures B and C).32 In 
                        New York
                     Davis had the firm of Stoddart and Currier make an engraving of the two drawings. The
                    engraving was sold nationally, publicizing the firm's newest statehouse 
                  
                     26 Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers,
                            136–37.
                  
                     27 The fact that Town hired the twenty-five-year-old Peck to supervise
                            the masonry work indicates the younger man had previous experience as a mason, perhaps
                            working on the 
                                New Haven
                             statehouse. See Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 156.
                  
                     28 Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers, 392; 
                                Newton
                            , Town and Davis, 58, 96, 203; Hamlin, Greek
                                Revival Architecture, 144; Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 156.
                  
                     29 See construction contract in Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers, 90–96, 98–99. Town had previously used
                            the stucco veneer at the Connecticut statehouse, which provided the distinguished appearance
                            of stone within the restricted budgets appropriated by the state legislatures. See Hitchcock
                            and Seale, Temples of Democracy, 84.
                  
                     30 Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers,
                            96–97.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 347, 392.
                  
                     32 Indiana, House Journal (1834–1835),
                            88.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE G: BRAMANTE'S TEMPIETTO
                                AT ROME
                  
                  Reproduced from the Isaac Ware edition of Andrea Palladio's Fou Books of Architecture (
                                New York
                            , 1965), The Fourth Book, Plate XLV.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE H: ELEVATION OF THE CHORAGIC
                                MONUMENT OF LYSICRATES
                  
                  Reproduced from James Stuart and Nicholas Revett, The Antiquities
                                of 
                                    Athens
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                                London
                            , reprint 1968), Chapter 4, Plate III.
               
                    
                    
                  EDWIN J. PECK
                  
                  Reproduced from B. R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), opposite page 156.
                design.33 Stirewalt and the subcontractors completed construction on
                    the statehouse in December, 1835, four years after the submission of plans to the legislature. The
                    final cost was about sixty thousand dollars (see Figure D).34
            
            
               
                  33 According to his diary (p. 163), Davis prepared a perspective view of
                        the Indiana capitol for a private client in June, 1834. The engraving was a logical next step.
                        The 1834 view and plan are the only surviving drawings by Town and Davis related to the Indiana
                        capitol. What is believed to be the watercolor version presented to the legislators still exists
                        at the Indiana Division, Indiana State Library. See also Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers, 327; and 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, December 6, 1936.
               
                  34 Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers,
                    351.
            
            
            
               ITHIEL TOWN (1784–1844)
               Reproduced from The Architect, XI (February, 1929), 521.
            
            Debate over the architectural propriety of Town and Davis's design for the Indiana
                    statehouse began even before it was completed. In April, 1835, the editor of the 
                        New York
                    -based American Monthly Magazine savagely attacked the combined temple
                    and dome designs of Town and Davis, calling the proposed dome for the Federal Customs House in 
                        New York
                     (designed by the firm the previous year) "an excrescence, which, however
                    elegant it itself, is utterly monstrous and barbarous when added to a model of the present Grecian
                    architecture, such as the Parthenon or the  Theseion."
                    The editor referred to the firm's use of a dome in the design for the Indiana capitol as
                        "vandalism."35
            
            Several years later, the Family Magazine, also published in 
                        New York
                    , took the opposite view, acclaiming the design of the Indiana statehouse. The magazine
                    commented that it "may be considered the nearest approach to the classical spirit of the
                    antique yet instanced in the Western hemisphere."36
                    The writer of the article, who may have belonged to the cultural circle of Town and Davis, defended
                    the introduction of antae along the flanks of the temple form. He pointed out that the projecting
                    forms partially concealed the many windows from view, saving the building from "the
                    character of a factory" and providing the illusion of support for the full entablature
                    along the sides. Regarding the combination of dome with temple, the writer conceded that as a matter
                    of taste the propriety of adding a dome was questionable. Nevertheless, he argued that the dome of
                    the Indiana capitol denoted the special character of its edifice. To the distant observer,
                    "the dome and lantern, rising proudly above surrounding objects enhances the richness of
                    the scene."37
            
            The local press in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was at first also congratulatory. Upon the statehouse's completion at the end
                    of 1835, the Indiana Democrat thanked all the construction supervisors and the
                    workers for their efforts, enthusiastically referring to the outward appearance of the new
                    statehouse as "truly splendid."38
            
            Nevertheless, by the end of the Civil War, the design of the statehouse had passed from favor in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . W. R. Holloway, who published the first comprehensive history of the city in 1870,
                    condemned the building for both its temple form and for the addition of the dome. He observed that a
                    Greek temple was intended for mountainous countries, where it could cap natural elevations and
                    harmonize with the scenery. On the other hand, "the Grecian style is not fitted for a level
                    country. Its heavy architrave, low roof, square form, and lack of elevation, make it look squatty in
                    a plain." Like the editor of American Monthly Magazine, Holloway viewed
                    the combination of a dome and a Greek temple as a distasteful and unnatural marriage. Even if one
                    set aside the problem of situating the temple form on a plain, "the incongruous,
                    contemptible dome should have condemned it utterly. It don't [sic] belong
                    to the Grecian style, it is Roman. The Greeks knew nothing of domes or arches."39
            
            
               
                  35 Quoted in Hamlin, Greek Revival Architecture, 324.
               
                  36 Italicized in original; see "Capitol of Indiana," 3.
               
                        37
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  38 Quoted in Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers,
                        392.
               
                  39 W. R. Holloway, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            : A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City … (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1870), 42–43.
            
            
            If just the style and design of the statehouse had been objectionable, the Indiana citizenry might
                    have retained it. What really "condemned" it was the impermanence of its
                    construction. Holloway reported that the limestone used in the foundation was far from durable. The
                    stone began to scale only a few years after construction, and by 1870 had "decayed so
                    greatly as to disfigure, if not endanger, portions of the walls."40
            
            The walls themselves, as well as the columns, antae, and entablature, were covered with
                    Town's stucco. This material fared poorly in the freeze-and-thaw cycle of 
                        Indianapolis
                     winters. By the 1860s, chunks of the ersatz masonry were breaking off, exposing the
                    brick structure beneath. Holloway pronounced the statehouse's appearance
                    "disgusting," while Jacob P. Dunn, a later historian, referred to its appearance
                    during its last years as that of "a genuine Grecian ruin."41
            
            Apparently the plaster work in the interior was also of uncertain quality. In 1867 the coved ceiling
                    in the "Representative hall" collapsed and made a "magnificent
                    wreck." Although no one was present when the collapse occurred, this episode apparently
                    alarmed the legislators enough to support proposals for a new capitol.42 In
                    1877, only slightly over forty years after its completion, the second Indiana statehouse was
                    demolished (see Figure I).43
            
            The architectural competition for the second Indiana statehouse and the subsequent construction
                    activities represented the first appearance in 
                        Indianapolis
                     of "high-style" architecture. For the first time, a professional firm
                    of architects designed and built a major edifice in the frontier capital.44 The
                    impact of the statehouse as a model for subsequent buildings in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and central Indiana was substantial.
            
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 42.
               
                  41
                        Ibid., 42–43. See also Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            , I, 104–105.
               
                  42 Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            , I, 105; Holloway, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , 43.
               
                  43 It is interesting to note that the square, which Town had suggested be
                        annexed to the statehouse site in 1832, became the northern half of the site for the present
                        capitol, built between 1878 and 1888.
               
                  44 The firm was at least partially responsible for the design of at least
                        one other Indiana building. In the spring of 1835 an agent for the newly established Wabash
                        College, at 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , purchased plans for the first college building (later South Hall) from Ithiel
                        Town's 
                            New York
                         office. Although the college and contractor modified the design, the building was
                        an early introduction in the state of row house design. It also featured a crude version of the
                        "Davisean window" invented by A. J. Davis. See J. D. Forbes, "South
                        Hall at Wabash College," Wabash Bulletin, XLIX (June, 1953),
                        15–19.
            
            
            
               FIGURE I: THE RAZING of the SECOND INDIANA STATEHOUSE, 1877
               Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            The design of the capitol implanted the Greek Revival mode of architecture in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .45 A host of institutional and ecclesiastical buildings with
                    modified temple forms and cupolas followed in the late 1830s, 1840s, and early 1850s.46 Design and construction of the statehouse also established a fledgling architectural
                    profession in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , including (for a time) John Stirewalt, Town and Davis's veteran designer;
                    Edwin J. Peck, who graduated from masonry supervision to architectural design and contracting; and
                    John Elder, a newcomer from 
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               , who first became interested in 
                        Indianapolis
                     while corresponding with James Blake regarding the 1831 architectural competition.47
            
            The Indiana statehouse was the first major public building erected in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Its construction demonstrated the confidence of the state's leaders in the
                    future of the state capital and its potential to become a bona fide city. Comments in the Indiana Democrat indicate that those townspeople who witnessed the
                    capitol's completion were quite impressed by it: "we feel thankful in having been
                    permitted to live to witness this brilliant commencement of what 
                        Indianapolis
                     will be, when we who have witnessed the noble forest waving luxuriantly over the ground
                    it [the statehouse] occupies shall have been called to our last account."48
            
            At the same time, the General Assembly did not realize the full potential for growth of the state and
                    its capital. The legislature provided sufficient funds to erect a suitable, even dazzling, civic
                    monument for a state capital of modest dimensions. Within two decades, however, 
                        Indianapolis
                     had embarked on a period of rapid expansion as the railroad center of the state, and
                    the cheaply built capitol began to disintegrate, making inevitable its replacement by the present,
                    well-constructed and truly monumental statehouse.
            
               
                  45 The Greek Revival in European architecture began with the discovery
                        during the late eighteenth century of the ruins of Ancient 
                            Greece
                         and the subsequent publication of measured drawings of major monuments by such
                        British architects as Stuart and Revett. By the early nineteenth century, architects on the
                        continent were designing most public buildings with features from Greek edifices. In the 
                            United States
                         William Strickland's Second Bank of the 
                            United States
                         in 
                            Philadelphia
                         (1819) represented the first major American public building conceived totally in
                        the Greek mode. American architects and their clients perceived an analogy between the 
                            United States
                         and the democrats of Classical 
                            Greece
                         and swiftly embraced the new style for all types of building. Greek Revival designs
                        appeared throughout the 
                            United States
                         between 1820 and 1860.
               
                  46 For examples, see Lee Burns, Early Architects and Builders
                            of Indiana (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XI, No. 3; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1935), 193–98.
               
                  47
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, December 6,1936; Sulgrove, History of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 156.
               
                  48 Quoted in Riker and Thornbrough, Messages and Papers,
                        392.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the Great Depression:
            The New Deal Years, 1933–1940
            Iwan Morgan∗
            
            When F#2 D. Roosevelt launched the New Deal in 1933, he initiated a new epoch in American urban
                    history. In contrast to his predecessor, Herbert C. Hoover, the new president decided that the
                    federal government should assume the main responsibility for dealing with the Depression. First and
                    foremost through its relief measures and second through its recovery and reform policies, the New
                    Deal established the federal government as a vital factor in the lives of the nation's
                    urban dwellers. As a result of Roosevelt's programs, the urban unemployed received work
                    relief, industrial unions won collective bargaining rights, homeowners obtained mortgage aid, and
                    slum dwellers saw a glimmer of hope for the future. The urban electorate showed its gratitude for
                    these reforms by forming the bedrock of a new voter coalition that enabled the Democratic party to
                    dominate national politics for the next thirty years.1
            
            Yet many historians have argued that in reality the New Deal did little to alleviate the problems of
                    the cities per se or to improve the quality of urban life.2 According to Mark I.
                    Gelfand, 
                  
                     ∗ Iwan Morgan is acting head of the Department of Politics
                            and Government, City of 
                                London
                             Polytechnic, 
                        London, England
                     . Among his previous publications are
                            "Factional Conflict in Indiana Politics during the Later New Deal Years,
                            1936–1940," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (March,
                            1983), and "
                                Fort Wayne
                             and the Great Depression: The Early Years, 1929–1933," ibid., LXXX (June, 1984).
                  
                     1 William E. Leuchtenburg,  F#2 D. Roosevelt and the New
                                Deal, 1932–1940 (
                                New York
                            , 1963), passim; John M. Allswang, The New Deal
                                and American Politics: A Study in Political Change (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 29–88.
                  
                     2 Mark I. Gelfand, A Nation of Cities: The Federal
                                Government and Urban America, 1933–1965 (
                                New York
                            , 1975), 23–70, 120-24, 216–19; Charles H. Trout, 
                        
                                    Boston
                                , the Great Depression, and the New Deal (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 304-22; Charles N. Glaab and A. Theodore 
                                Brown
                            , A History of Urban America (2d ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1976), 279.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXX (December, 1984). ©1984, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     Roosevelt did not seek fundamental urban reforms because
                    "he was interested in the city dweller, not the city."3 The
                    power of rural interests in Congress also limited the scope of federal urban aid during the 1930s.
                    Moreover, opposition from powerful local interest groups often blunted the impact of New Deal urban
                    measures.
            In many respects the experience of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, typified the accomplishments and limitations of the New Deal regarding cities
                    and city dwellers. By 1940 the federal government had woven broad strands in the pattern of this
                    Hoosier community's life. In particular, the New Deal reformed 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's system of unemployment relief, underwrote important municipal improvements,
                    and helped to increase the power of local trade unions. Nevertheless, the scope of these changes
                    would have been greater but for the opposition of certain local interest groups. On the other hand,
                    the New Deal's failure to reverse the trend of inner city decay in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and its refusal to help city hall cope with municipal fiscal problems exemplified the
                    limitations of Roosevelt's urban vision. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's political life also changed 
                  FORT WAYNE SOUP AND BREAD LINE, 1932
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                  
                     3 Gelfand, Nation of Cities, 68.
               
                     under the impact of the New Deal, but not to the same extent as
                    in most northern industrial cities. In fact, Indiana's "Summit City"
                    provides an interesting example of how a local Republican organization succeeded in turning back the
                    Democratic urban tidal wave that Roosevelt had generated.
            The first problem was relief. The federal program commenced in mid-1933: over the next two years the
                    Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) gave grants-in-aid to Indiana, totaling more than
                    seventy-one million dollars. State officials distributed these funds to local communities on a
                    matching grant basis. Relief authorities in 
                        Allen County
                     initially used the money to finance direct public aid and work relief projects. Later,
                    in November, 1933, a new federal agency, the Civil Works Administration (CWA), assumed direct
                    responsibility for all work relief. During CWA's five-month existence, over three thousand 
                        Allen County
                     residents were put to work on federal relief projects. After the agency's
                    demise, FERA funds again underwrote both forms of relief aid in the Summit City.4
            
            The infusion of federal money resolved 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's immediate relief problems. Serious shortcomings were evident in
                    Indiana's FERA relief system, however. Even though federal and state authorities were now
                    involved in providing unemployment relief, township trustees still heavily influenced aid
                    distribution at the community level. Few trustees had the professional ability or time to deal
                    adequately with relief problems during the 1930s. Some were corrupt; many were just political hacks.
                    In general, they tended to apply subjective standards in granting relief.5
                    Before 1933 the unemployed in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had not complained loudly about Wayne Township trustee, Elmer Fox, perhaps because they
                    feared reprisals. The New Deal evidently raised their expectations about relief standards and gave
                    them hope for federal protection from local politicians. In September the 
                        Allen County
                     Unemployment Association sent Roosevelt a petition to protest that the township
                    trustee's office showed personal favor in distributing aid, had corrupt deals with certain
                    grocery stores, and refused relief to those among the unemployed who dared to criticize its
                        policy.6
            
            
               
                  4 James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A
                            History of the Hoosier State and Its People, 1920–1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 108; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, November 20, 1933, March 29, 1934.
               
                  5
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, 109–10,113–14; Frank G. Bates,
                        "The Indiana Township— An Anachronism," National
                            Municipal Review, XXI (August, 1932), 502–504.
               
                  6
                        
                            Allen County
                         Unemployment Association, Petition, September 15,1933, Box 460, Indiana, Federal
                        Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) State Files, 1933–1936, RG 69 (National
                        Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.). Copies were sent to Roosevelt, William Book of the Governor's
                        Commission on Unemployment Relief (GCUR), and Edward A. Barnes.
            
            
            
               EDWARD A. BARNES, 1932
               Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana.
            
            Federal officials and the Governor's Commission on Unemployment Relief (GCUR), a body that
                    Governor Paul V. McNutt had established to coordinate relief programs in Indiana, agreed that the
                    state needed a more professional, centralized system of relief administration. In mid-1934 McNutt
                    decided that FERA relief should be administered at the local level by county commissions that GCUR
                    would appoint.7 This new setup eliminated the township trustees "from
                    any active part in the relief administration other than to furnish township money."8 Arthur F. Hall, the civic leader who had been active in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's voluntarist relief organizations, agreed to chair the new 
                        Allen County
                     relief commission. Business and labor were also represented on the board, but the main
                    responsibility for policy administration lay 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, 114–16.
                  
                     8 Howard Hunter to Harry Hopkins, August 13, 1934, Field Report, Box
                            406, Indiana, FERA State Files, 1933–1936.
               
                     with the other four members—the casework supervisor,
                    the works division supervisor, the women's work director, and the relief work director.
                    Edward Barnes, who had been active as a charity organizer for 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's Community Chest and had served on 
                        Allen County
                    's CWA committee, was appointed relief work director.9
                    Unfortunately, but predictably, Barnes did not have a good working relationship with his three
                    colleagues, who were professional social workers and newcomers to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The social workers were committed to integrating 
                        Allen County
                     into a centralized, professional relief system operating under standards set by GCUR.
                    To Barnes they appeared as heartless bureaucrats, who threatened home rule and possessed no
                    understanding of the local community. Therefore, he joined with Elmer Fox and the executive
                    secretary of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Federated Relief Agencies, W. Fuller, to challenge the authority of his colleagues.10 The unemployed's dissatisfaction with the new relief policy
                    encouraged such opposition.
            The reformed GCUR system suffered unceasingly from unfavorable comparisons with CWA, an agency that
                    at its peak had spent nearly ninety thousand dollars a week on wages in 
                        Allen County
                    . CWA had also adopted flexible standards concerning the eligibility of relief
                        applicants.11 The GCUR county commission had less money from FERA to finance
                    work relief. Fewer than twenty-eight hundred people now received relief work each month in 
                        Allen County
                    , and the highest monthly payroll, in December, 1934, was only $103,777.12 The case work supervisor, a young college-educated social worker named
                    Catherine Sinclair, allocated work relief by estimating the budget for each applicant's
                    family and prohibited recipients from obtaining supplemental relief. Inevitably, many families
                    complained that they were expected to live on unrealistic budgets. Sinclair's refusal to
                    consider local tax and mortgage interest payments when assessing family budgets was also a source of
                    grievance in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , where many homeowners were on relief.13 A FERA grievance committee
                        
                  
                     9
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, April 4, 1934. For a brief outline of Barnes's
                            career, see Bert J. Griswold, Builders of Greater 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                      (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1926), 16.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, July 10, 1934.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., March 29, 1934.
                  
                     12 Photostats of 
                                Allen County
                            's relief statistics are in Box 1, County Reports, GCUR Records
                            (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and
                            Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     13
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, July 4, 1934; James A. Brown, general chairman of FERA
                            workers in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , to Hopkins, July 17,1934, Box 460, Indiana, FERA State Files,
                            1933–1936; Carl Getz to S.B. Flemyng, February 1, 1935, Box 1, County Reports,
                            GCUR Records.
               
                     was organized to voice these criticisms. In their own defense,
                    Sinclair and her professional colleagues emphasized that they were merely implementing
                    GCUR's policy. As a result, the unemployed tended to forget the shortcomings of the
                    township relief system and clamored for some restitution of home rule.14 Tempers
                    became frayed on both sides and provoked irrational judgments. One GCUR field representative
                    complained, for example, that the FERA grievance committee was "composed of the most bitter
                    radicals in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ." In turn, relief recipients attributed many of the shortcomings of the new
                    system to GCUR's reliance on young female social workers who had no experience raising a
                        family.15
            
            In December, 1934, open conflict broke out between Sinclair and Barnes when the latter insisted that
                    twenty relief families should receive supplemental direct aid. Nadia Deem, the GCUR's
                    social service director, immediately called for his dismissal.16 However, both 
                        Fort Wayne
                     newspapers were inundated with letters of support for the local man. The FERA grievance
                    committee, with support from Fox and Fuller, demanded that GCUR create an investigative department,
                    staffed entirely by local people, to help the case work supervisor make decisions on relief
                        cases.17 Samuel Cleland, the chairman of the 
                        Allen County
                     Democratic party and a committed McNutt supporter, warned GCUR that the whole community
                    was up in arms against the relief administrators. He himself believed that "the destitute
                    of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     are not being taken care of adequately nor properly."18
                    Wayne Coy, a GCUR executive, poured oil on the troubled waters by refusing to dismiss Barnes and
                    agreeing to some of the grievance committee's minor demands, notably that each
                    individual's relief work hours be evenly distributed throughout the month. Nevertheless,
                    bad feelings did not subside. In February, 1935, FERA workers organized a huge petition drive
                    calling for the return of direct relief to township control and for a federal investigation of GCUR
                    employees in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .19
            
            
               
                  14 F.M. Rarig to Barnes, December 14, 1934, Box 1, County Reports, GCUR
                        Records.
               
                  15 William Owen to Wayne Coy, December 10,1934, ibid.;
                        
                            Allen County
                         FERA and Relief Workers to Congressman James I. Farley, February 21, 1935, Box 460,
                        Indiana, FERA State Files, 1933–1936.
               
                  16 Barnes to Coy, December 27, 1934, Nadia Deem to Coy, December 28,1934,
                        Box 1, County Reports, GCUR Records.
               
                  17 Samuel Cleland to Coy, December 26, 1934, Owen to Rarig, December 10,
                        1934, Owen to Coy, December 10, 1934, ibid.
               
               
                  18 Cleland to Arthur K. Remmel, December 26, 1934, ibid.
               
               
                  19 Farley to Hopkins, April 9, 1935, 
                            Allen County
                         FERA and Relief Workers to Farley, February 21, 1935, Box 460, Indiana, FERA State
                        Files, 1933–1936.
            
            
            Although leading federal officials like Howard Hunter supported GCUR in its efforts to reform
                    Indiana's relief system, the influence of this organization declined from
                    mid–1935 onward. With the economy improving, Roosevelt decided to terminate federal
                    involvement in direct relief.20 FERA was abolished and replaced by the Works
                    Progress Administration (WPA). This new agency financed only work relief projects and was
                    administered directly from 
                        Washington
                     through district offices, not by the states. The revamped relief system worked far more
                    harmoniously than had its predecessor in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     because it struck an acceptable balance between federal control and home rule. WPA bore
                    about two-thirds of total relief costs in 
                        Allen County
                     from 1935 to 1938, but the township trustee's office regained some of its
                    influence since local taxes again bore the entire burden for direct relief in Indiana. Moreover,
                    WPA's district office did not allocate relief on the same basis as the GCUR's
                    county commission and normally accepted the trustee's certification of each
                    applicant's eligibility for aid.21
            
            The new agency spent over $1.75 million on wages in 
                        Allen County
                     during its first nine months of operation. Its monthly payroll rose steadily until
                    March, 1936, when 3,958 local residents received work relief. With the gradual improvement of the
                    economy, the number dropped to 2,145 by June, 1937.22 This downward trend was
                    rudely interrupted by the onset of the so-called "Roosevelt Recession" in the fall
                    of 1937. By June, 1938, 23,697 people, 16.1 percent of 
                        Allen County
                    's population, were receiving some form of welfare aid. This figure included
                    14,228 people who were dependent on WPA earnings of members of their family.23
                    In these circumstances discord over the relief setup returned, but complaints about WPA were quite
                    different from those directed at GCUR. The Democratic party had naturally made numerous patronage
                    appointments to the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     district's WPA organization. During the 1938 elections local Republicans drew
                    public attention to this practice and seized the opportunity to accuse the agency of
                    maladministration and waste. Many people also complained about 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's comparatively low relief allocations, 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, 114–16; Leuchtenburg, Roosevelt and the New Deal, 124–26.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, October 9,1937, July 7,1939; 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, 124–25.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, June 14, 1936; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 17, 1937.
                  
                     23 State Department of Public Welfare (SDPW), "Statistical
                            Survey of Public Assistance in Indiana, June, 1938," p. 16, Box 610, State Files,
                            Works Progress Administration (WPA) Records, RG 69 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
               
                     although other large Indiana cities had higher unemployment in
                        1938.24
            
            Significantly, the onset of the recession did not stir any group in the local community to criticize
                    the principle of federal relief. Charles Buesching, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's leading banker, had already concluded that only the federal government had
                    "sufficient power and credit" to help the vast army of unemployed.25 The Republican mayor, Harry W. Baals, agreed that WPA "is here to stay until
                    private industry is back on its feet."26 The need for federal aid
                    outweighed the desire for complete home rule, especially in early 1939 when cutbacks in WPA
                    expenditures increased the relief burden on local government. Wayne Township was forced to spend
                    $128,599 on direct relief in the first quarter of 1939, compared with only
                    $56,771 during the same period in 1937. As a result both 
                        Fort Wayne
                     newspapers, representing differing partisan viewpoints, called on the federal
                    government not to shirk its responsibilities.27
            
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                    's difficulties in the early years of the Depression had convinced the
                    community that citizens who could not get work had a right to unemployment relief.28 The New Deal built on this foundation, demonstrating to the community that its obligations
                    to the unemployed could not be fulfilled without federal aid. In part, this belief developed and
                    endured because Roosevelt's programs did not deal with unemployment solely as a Depression
                    phenomenon. The Social Security legislation, in particular, established the basis of a new welfare
                    state. By mid–1938, 2,697 
                        Allen County
                     residents were receiving this form of aid.29 In spite of local
                    opposition to GCUR policy, the New Deal raised the community's expectations about suitable
                    relief standards. This development certainly affected the township trustee's office. Thanks
                    to the partial recovery of home rule, old practices could still continue, of course, but the trustee
                    was under greater public scrutiny than ever before. For example, in 1938 Local 901 of the United
                    Electrical Radio and Machine Workers of America (UERMWA) 
                  
                     24 Cleland to Daniel Roper, November 14, 1938, Official File 300, Box
                            18, F#2 D. Roosevelt Papers (F#2 D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            ).
                  
                     25
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, April 3, 1936.
                  
                     26
                            lbid., September 20, 1938.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., August 7, 1939; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, December 4, 1939.
                  
                     28 See Iwan Morgan, "
                                Fort Wayne
                             and the Great Depression: The Early Years, 1929–1933," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (June, 1984), 122–45.
                  
                     29 SDPW, "Statistical Survey of Public Assistance in Indiana,
                            June, 1938," p. 16.
               
                     set up a committee to investigate Elmer Fox after members had
                    made complaints about him.30
            
            In providing work relief for the unemployed in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , the New Deal carried out important municipal improvements. Projects undertaken by CWA
                    or financed by FERA included road surfacing, sidewalk construction, drainage work, land clearance
                    for public parks, river beautification, and the refurbishing of municipal buildings and schools.31 WPA continued these works and undertook an impressive array of new projects.
                    It laid out a municipal beach recreation area, built a City Light and Water Utilities substation,
                    extended the sewer system, laid down an asphalt runway at the municipal airfield, constructed
                    several new school buildings, and carried out substantial improvements on the county
                    children's home.32
            
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                     also received direct financial aid from 
                        Washington
                     to carry out major municipal improvements that were too expensive for the work relief
                    agencies. In 1935, on the advice of a civic committee composed largely of businessmen, Mayor Baals
                    requested Public Works Administration (PWA) funds for three projects. These were the construction of
                    a new sewage plant and interceptor system, the widening of 
                        Clinton
                     Street, and the elevation of the Nickel Plate railroad tracks. The last two projects
                    were intended to resolve 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's traffic congestion problems created mainly by the absence of smoothly
                    flowing north-south crosstown highways.33 At first, however, PWA chief Harold L.
                    Ickes rejected the Summit City's application for aid. He felt that 
                        Fort Wayne
                     could finance the projects itself because the local economy was on the mend. The state
                    government came to the rescue instead, helping to finance the 
                        Clinton
                     Street project with a $330,000 grant from federal funds allocated to Indiana
                    for a grade crossing elimination program by the Bureau of Public Roads.34 PWA
                    itself showed more generosity after the onset of the recession. In 1938 it gave 
                        Fort Wayne
                     a grant of $2,322,000 for the sewer project. Without this funding the
                    municipal government would have been in desperate straits because it was under pressure from the
                    State Board of Health to clean up the badly polluted Maumee River.35 Track
                    elevation, however, could not be undertaken 
                  
                     30 Membership Meeting Minutes, January 3, 1938, United Electrical
                            Radio and Machine Workers of America (UERMWA) Local 901 Records (IUE Local 901 Headquarters, 
                                Broadway
                             Street, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ).
                  
                     31
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 21, 1933.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, June 14, October 25, 1936.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., March 12, May 23, 1935.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., November 14, 1937; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, October 22, 1935.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 22, 1938; Letter from Baals to W. H. Frazier, October
                            8, 1937, Journal of the Proceedings of the Common Council ([
                                Fort Wayne
                            ], 1937), 202-203.
               
                     until 1955 because the Nickel Plate company refused to make a
                    sufficient contribution to the project.36
            
            Impressive though this catalog of municipal improvements may appear, relatively few of the projects
                    benefited the areas suffering from urban decay, namely those on the fringes of the downtown
                    district. Of course, the whole community gained from the sewage improvements, although one area of
                    low-income housing in western 
                        Fort Wayne
                     did not receive a sewer hookup until 1951. Nevertheless, two of the major projects,
                    aimed to speed up crosstown traffic, aided the outer, rather than the inner, city areas.37 In addition, none of the main recreational improvements were carried out in
                    the east-central district, which had the highest incidence of juvenile delinquency in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . In 1944 the National Recreation Association made trenchant criticisms about the lack
                    of leisure facilities in the area.38 The most pressing need of the inner city
                    was better housing. The New Deal did relatively little to alleviate this problem, partly because of
                    its own limitations, but also because of opposition from powerful local interest groups.
            The Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which provided federal insurance for private mortgages, had
                    been created to encourage banks to loan money for new construction. Nevertheless, the agency was
                    reluctant to insure mortgages for housing in blighted areas because it was obliged not to operate at
                    a loss. Inevitably, this policy led to discrimination against urban districts with the worst housing
                        problems.39 In 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's case, with the notable exception of one rental project, FHA neglected the
                    needs of the inner city. As a result, most of the new housing constructed in the 1930s was located
                    on the northern, western, and southeastern edges of the city. Owing to its conservative mortgage
                    policy, the FHA's efforts to revive the local construction industry reaped only partial
                    success. Before the Depression the average number of new houses constructed each year in Fort 
                  
                     36 For an outline of the complex and prolonged negotiations between
                            the municipal government and the railroad company, see 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, "Progress Edition," May 27, 1958.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                             Urban League, Annual Report, 1950–1951, Affiliate File 54, National
                            Urban League Records (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     38 J. Harvey Kerns, "A Study of the Social and Economic
                            Conditions of the Negro Population of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, and a Review of the Program and Activities of the 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Urban League—Wheatley Community Center," 1949, copy of
                            unpublished report commissioned by the Social Planning Council of 
                                Fort Wayne
                             and 
                                Allen County
                             (
                                Allen County
                             Public Library), 56.
                  
                     39 Gelfand, Nation of Cities, 123–24,
                            216–17; William C. Wheaton, "The Evolution of Federal Housing
                            Programs" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Political Science, University of 
                                Chicago
                            , 1953), 46–67.
               
                    
                    
                  FORT WAYNE'S DEPRESSION
                                SHANTYTOWN, NORTH CALHOUN STREET ACROSS from the ALLEN COUNTY, JAIL, PAINTED by LOUIS BONSIB
                  
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     Wayne was 1,368 in the period 1923–1925 and 595 in
                    1926–1929. From 1932 to 1934, however, a total of only 48 new units was built. The
                    commencement of FHA operations did produce a steady increase thereafter, but new construction during
                    the 1930s never matched the levels achieved in the previous decade. Only 369 new houses were built
                    in 1939, the best year of the Depression decade for 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's construction industry.40
            
            The Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC) was more responsive to the ordinary 
                        Fort Wayne
                     householder than FHA. Created in 1933, HOLC was empowered to refinance private
                    mortgages with government money at an interest rate of 5 percent, with the borrower having fifteen
                    years to repay. In 
                        Fort Wayne
                     this federal agency held 3,968 mortgages by mid-1937, representing a total value of
                    $11,642,000. Mortgage foreclosures fell from 612 in 1932 to 295 in 1934 as a result of
                    HOLC activities. Nevertheless, HOLC did not always operate in a benevolent manner. In particular, it
                    dispossessed those families who could not continue repayments on their federal mortgage. This policy
                    partly accounted for the rise again in foreclosures to 531 in 1935. The number fell only to 426 in
                    the following year and rose once more when the recession hit 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . HOLC also refused to aid unemployed homeowners and closely investigated each applicant
                    to determine whether he or she was a sound risk. These practices caused it to adopt what was in
                    effect a "redlining" policy. The agency graded 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's neighborhoods according to their suitability for mortgage aid.
                    Classification was based not only upon each area's housing standards and accessibility to
                    public transport but also upon the general socioeconomic status of its residents. The lowest grade,
                    "D," denoted an area of "low class population," where blacks,
                    foreign born, and poor whites were numerous. HOLC did make some mortgage loans to residents of
                    "D" districts but was obviously less sympathetic to them than to residents of
                    other areas. It was also reluctant to hold mortgages on property in five of the nineteen
                    "C" areas. These neighborhoods had housing of reasonable quality but were regarded
                    as susceptible to infiltration from 
                  
                     40 Division of Research and Statistics (DRS), "Confidential
                            Report of a Survey in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, and Its Suburban Area," September 24,1937, City Survey File,
                            1935–1940, Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC) Records, RG 195
                            (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.), 4–5; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, April 16, 1936; "Locality Program Report: 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana," July 23, 1941, Division of Defense Housing Coordination
                            Records, RG 207 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
               
                     residents of nearby "D" districts.41 Significantly, HOLC appraisal methods were adopted by FHA in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and other cities.
            The federal agencies did at least acknowledge that 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had a serious shortage of decent housing. In 1938 FHA estimated that the city needed
                    2,160 new units.42 A detailed WPA survey graphically revealed the extent of the
                    problem. It discovered that 193 of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's 27,543 residential structures were unfit for human use and that 1,786 needed
                    major repairs. There were no indoor toilets in 1,263 houses. Out of a total of 33,019 dwelling
                    units, over 900 had no running water, over 9,000 had only cold water, and over 4,600 did not have a
                    plumbed bath. Substandard housing was scattered throughout 
                        Fort Wayne
                     but was widespread in the east-central area, a low-income section between the downtown
                    district and the railroad yards. Overcrowding, another serious problem in this area, affected about
                    40 percent of the black residents and many whites.43
            
            These revelations prompted the municipal government to apply to the 
                        United States
                     Housing Authority (USHA) for aid in 1938. This new federal agency responded favorably
                    and set aside a grant of $1.5 million for the construction of five hundred public housing
                    units in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . However, the federal project ran into strong local opposition. Denying that there was
                    a severe housing shortage, the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Board of Realtors (FWBR) insisted that the private rental market could meet the needs
                    of low-income residents. The powerful Taxpayers Research Association (TRA) objected to the cost of
                    the local contribution to the venture. All eleven community associations protested the conditions
                    appended to federal aid. USHA wanted the relaxation of certain zoning regulations that inhibited
                    public housing construction in many neighborhoods; it also demanded the enactment of a new municipal
                    ordinance requiring the purchase and demolition of substandard property.44 These
                    stipulations alienated the influential 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News-Sentinel, which opposed the surrender of "home rule liberties in
                    exchange for a mass of high-handed State Socialism."45
                    
                  
                     41 DRS, "Confidential Report," HOLC Records, passim. For general studies of HOLC, see C. Lowell Harriss, History and Policies of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation (
                                New York
                            , 1951); and Kenneth T. Jackson, "Race, Ethnicity and Real Estate
                            Appraisal: The Home Owners' Loan Corporation and the Federal Housing
                            Administration," Journal of Urban History, VI (August, 1980),
                            419–52.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 11, 1938.
                  
                     43 WPA, "Final Report and Table Forms—Real
                            Property and Land Use Survey, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, and Urban Areas, 1939," copy in City Plan Commission Records
                            (City-County Building, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ). See, too, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, February 16, 1939, June 11, 1938.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, March 21, 1939.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, March 9, 1939.
               
                     Responding to this strong opposition, the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Housing Authority (FWHA) decided to renegotiate with the federal government, and the
                    city council vetoed the proposals for housing reform. A new agreement was finally reached in
                    November, 1939, whereby USHA undertook construction of one hundred houses and FWHA pledged to repair
                    or demolish an equal number of structures.46
            
            The community associations were also eager to preserve the zoning regulations in order to prevent the
                    spread of municipal prefabricated housing. In 1938 the newly created FWHA, acting in conjunction
                    with WPA and FHA, was responsible for one of the most interesting experimental housing ventures of
                    the New Deal era. Its chairman, William B. Hall, son of the eminent civic leader Arthur F. Hall,
                    arranged to lease fifty plots of land scattered throughout the eastern inner city for one dollar
                    each. Although most of the plots were vacant, ramshackle structures stood on some. The owners of the
                    land were exempted from payment of municipal taxes on the properties. After carrying out demolition,
                    WPA erected a prefabricated dwelling on each plot. Free labor reduced FWHA's unit costs to
                    only $900. Three local banks provided the housing authority with $45,000 in
                    mortgage funds, which FHA insured. Weekly rental charges of only $2.50 were sufficient to
                    pay off the loan in twenty years.47 Over six hundred low-income families applied
                    for the new prefabricated homes but only fifty could be accommodated. In 1939, hoping to profit from
                    the proposed relaxation of zoning regulations, Hall announced plans to construct two hundred
                    additional units. The community associations voiced strong objections, however, because they feared
                    that the simple prefabricated structures, which they denounced as "New Deal chicken
                    coops," would lower property values if they were located in neighborhoods other than the
                    east-central district.48
            
            The city council's veto of the proposed housing reforms obviously restricted FWHA's
                    opportunities for acquiring new leases, so Hall reduced his target to one hundred.49 Another group now worked to thwart even this modified proposal. The so-called "
                        Fort Wayne
                     Plan" had attracted nationwide publicity and interest.50
                    
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., November 27, 1939.
                  
                     47 "Lots at $1, Rents at $2.50 a
                            Week," Architectural Forum, LXIX (October, 1938),
                            299–302.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, March 8, 1939.
                  
                     49 William B. Hall to Roosevelt, September 18, 1938, File 103, Box
                            651, State Series, WPA Records.
                  
                     50 "Fifty Plywood-Panel Houses Built at Rate of One a
                            Day," Architectural Record, LXXXV (March, 1939), 38–40
                            (this contains excellent photographs of the housing, examples of which appear on pages 362
                            and 363); 
                                Baltimore
                            
                            Evening Sun, January 24, 25, 1939; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Sunday Times, December 4, 1938; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, September 3, 1938; Karl Deitzer, "
                                Fort Wayne
                            's 49 Families," Reader's Digest,
                            XXXV (November, 1939), 61–63.
               
                    
                    
                  PREFABRICATED PLYWOOD-PANEL HOUSE BUILT BY THE FORT WAYNE HOUSING AUTHORITY WITH WPA
                                LABOR
                  
                  Reproduced from the Architectural Record, LXXXV (March, 1939),
                            39; courtesy Architectural Record.
                  
                As a result, the FHA set up its own Municipal Housing Division to encourage other cities
                    to copy 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's example. This development aroused the opposition of the skilled labor
                    unions, which protested using relief workers in housing construction projects. Anxious not to offend
                    a political ally, Roosevelt soon bowed to the wishes of the American Federation of Labor and vetoed
                    WPA's participation in FHA's housing program.51 Without the
                    benefit of free labor, FWHA could not afford to expand the municipal project. Other cities, such as
                            
                  Hartford, Connecticut
               , which had expressed interest in the scheme, also decided
                    that they would not launch their own prefabricated housing programs.52
            
            Only Hall's ingenuity in devising the leasing scheme had enabled 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to launch its own housing program. As a rule, during the 1930s city administrations
                    lacked the fiscal resources to tackle serious urban problems. Although the federal government had
                    assumed primary responsibility for relief, the New Deal did little to alleviate the other fiscal
                    problems of urban America. The cities, including 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , had to finance the operation of municipal services from their own resources under the
                    difficult conditions of the Depression.
            
               
                  51
                        Architectural Forum, LXX (January, 1939), 2, (April, 1939), 4; Report of the
                        Housing Committee of the American Federation of Labor on "The 
                            Fort Wayne
                         Plan," March, 1939, copy in File 103, Box 651, State Series, WPA Records;
                        William Green to Colonel F.C. Harrington, June 13, 1939, File 103, Box 651, State Series, WPA
                        Records.
               
                  52 For a fuller analysis of this housing scheme, see Iwan Morgan,
                        "The 
                            Fort Wayne
                         Plan: The FHA and Prefabricated Municipal Housing in the 1930s," The Historian (forthcoming, 1985).
            
            
            
               FLOORPLAN OF THE PREFABRICATED HOUSE
                            SHOWN AT LEFT
               
               Reproduced from the Architectural Record, LXXXV (March, 1939), 39;
                        courtesy Architectural Record.
               
            
            The Summit City had less severe problems than the great metropolises. America's thirteen
                    biggest cities had increased their debt by an average of 50 percent during the prosperous 1920s.53
                    
                        Fort Wayne
                     had been more restrained but was still paying off old debts, including loans incurred
                    in 1868 to subsidize railroads. After the railroad bonds were refunded in 1933, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's bonded debt amounted to $844,300.54 Municipal
                    services also had to be maintained, but 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's tax base was shrinking. The Depression had reduced the taxable value of
                    property in the city from $320,573,100 in 1931 to $148,219,960 three years
                    later. Conversely, tax delinquency had increased, and tax revenues fell short of the estimated
                    figure by 7.3 percent in 1933.55
            
            The Democratic mayor, William J. Hosey, realized that his administration would soon be unable to
                    finance its operations. His 
                  
                     53 Gelfand, Nation of Cities, 49.
                  
                     54 National Consumers Tax Commission (NCTC), The Example
                                of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                —Where the Public's Business Is Made Public (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 5.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 1, 1935.
               
                     main hope rested on the 
                        United States
                     Conference of Mayors (USCM), an organization created in 1932 to represent the interests
                    of cities with populations of fifty thousand or more. USCM was intent on persuading the federal
                    government to help continue municipal services by granting the cities low-interest Reconstruction
                    Finance Corporation loans. Hosey visited 
                        Washington
                     several times to press USCM's case and was an active member of the
                    organization's conference committee. However, both the White House and Congress ignored the
                    cities' appeals because their overriding concern was with relief problems directly related
                    to the Depression.56
            
            From 1919 to 1932 the annual tax rate in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    -
                        Allen County
                     averaged $2.17 per $100. Without help from 
                        Washington
                    , the local government units had to fix a rate of $4.05 in 1933.57 Since most 
                        Fort Wayne
                     citizens' incomes declined during the Depression, there were strong protests
                    over the tax increase. When Hosey stood firm, there was talk of a tax strike, and the mayor received
                    threatening telephone calls.58 The 
                        Allen County
                     Tax Adjustment Board (ACTAB) resolved the issue by reducing the rate to
                    $2.75, a decision that effectively cut the city-county budget by $2,700,000.
                    The Civil City alone had to run on $307,000 less than initially estimated, and the Board
                    of Education's budget was cut by $470,000.59
                    Hosey's administration kept functioning during the next year by cutting municipal salaries,
                    laying off some employees temporarily or putting them on half-time, reducing the operations of all
                    municipal departments not concerned with public safety, and borrowing from the general municipal
                    fund in anticipation of future tax receipts.60 Nonetheless, in 1934 ACTAB again
                    reduced the tax rate fixed by the city-county government from $3.27 to
                        $2.75.61
            
            It is hardly surprising, therefore, that taxation became a major issue in local politics in 1934. 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's business leaders were instrumental in setting up the Taxpayers Research
                    Association (TRA), which lobbied against high city-county taxes. The local Republicans'
                    promise to reduce taxes carried them to a narrow victory in the mayoral election, even though the
                    Democratic congressional ticket swept the city.62 When the new mayor, Harry
                        
                  
                     56 Gelfand, Nation of Cities, 49–59; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, May 24, 27, 1933; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 17, 1933.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, February 19, 1940; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, August 22, 1933.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, September 18, 20, 23, and 24, 1933.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., September 27, 30, 1933.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., December 20, 29, 1933.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, August 22, September 28, 1934.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, October 25, November 7, 1934.
               
                     W. Baals, took office in January, 1935, the municipality was on
                    the verge of fiscal collapse. It could not pay the February wage bill, and the general fund surplus
                    had dwindled to a paltry thirty-two hundred dollars.63
            
            Baals resolved this dilemma by transferring funds from the municipal utilities, which operated at a
                    healthy profit even during the 1930s. The Republican mayor resorted to this measure every year for
                    the remainder of the Depression. Normally about two hundred thousand dollars were transferred
                    directly from City Light to the Civil City general fund. Baals also reversed traditional policy and
                    used City Light money to pay for 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's street and alley lighting, saving the Civil City over one hundred thousand
                    dollars each year.64 Hosey, a staunch progressive, had always insisted that
                    utility profits should be reinvested to improve municipal water and electricity services.65 Nevertheless, his successor's action gave the municipal exchequer a
                    needed boost. The new administration also used business accounting techniques to ensure that the
                    city operated on the most cost effective basis possible. Henceforth, all departmental purchases were
                    made through a centralized system that enabled the city to save money by buying in bulk. Better
                    servicing of city vehicles helped to improve their gasoline mileage from six miles per gallon to
                    thirteen. The amalgamation of the City Water and City Light departments reduced their annual
                    administrative costs by seventy-five thousand dollars. Baals even allowed TRA to help public
                    officials analyze the budgetary needs of their departments.66 He led by example
                    and dedicated his first administration to strict economy. As a result, the mayor shelved several
                    important projects dealing with recreational facilities, street-cleaning services, and a new traffic
                    light system.67
            
            Thanks to these measures and the general improvement of the economy, city-county officials were able
                    to cut the tax rate each year until it stood at $2.24 in 1938. 
                        Fort Wayne
                     now ranked 
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., January 23, 1935.
                  
                     64
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, November 20, 1938; "
                                New York
                             Times Features 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Record," 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 Municipal Review, V (February, 1939), 3. This practice continued in
                            the war years. In 1944, for example, the utilities absorbed $473,725 of the Civil
                            City's expenses. This sum included $200,000 transferred from City Light
                            to the Civil City fund. See "Municipal Utilities' Revenues Highest in
                            City's History," 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 Municipal Review, IX (May, 1945), 1.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, September 30, 1933, January 1, 1935.
                  
                     66 NCTC, "The Example of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ," passim.
                  
                  
                     67 Mayor's Budget Message, August 11, 1936, Journal of the Proceedings of the Common Council ([
                                Fort Wayne
                            ], 1936), 97–99.
               
                     among the lowest taxed of any city in its class in the nation,
                    according to Baals.68 Although the local tax rate rose again to $2.61
                    in 1939 because of the increased burden on township relief, this figure still compared favorably
                    with Indiana's other major cities.69 By 1939 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's bonded debt had been reduced to $557,200. The Baals
                    administration could point to concrete municipal achievements during this era of fiscal austerity.
                    According to the American Municipal Association (AMA), 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had the fourth worst record of any city for typhoid deaths in 1934. After a municipal
                    campaign to improve public health, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's record climbed to second best on the 1939 AMA survey; the incidence of
                    diphtheria also declined markedly. With the creation of its Police Bureau of Traffic, which did much
                    to reduce the number of road accidents, the Summit City won road safety awards from the state
                    government in 1937 and 1939. Finally in 1938 and 1939 City Light and Water Utilities directly
                    financed a major expansion of recreational facilities at the municipal beach.70
            
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                    's low taxes attracted nationwide publicity in the late 1930s.71 Baals proudly boasted that he had run government as a business not a political
                        institution.72 Without doubt his administration's greatest
                    achievement was tiding the city over the serious fiscal crisis of 1935. Other than reducing the
                    bonded debt, however, the Republican government did little to provide directly for 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's future development or to cure festering urban problems. It could hardly have
                    done so since local government in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , or any other city, could barely pay for its immediate needs in the 1930s. Only federal
                    aid to the municipal purse could have enabled the cities to plan for the future while combatting the
                    Depression.
            Relief and reform were not the only New Deal goals. Although not fully reviving 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's economy, federal recovery measures still had a marked impact on the local
                    community. In 1933 the value of manufacturing output in 
                        Allen County
                     was only 40 percent of the 1929 level. By 1935 this had risen to 61 percent, 
                  
                     68
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, November 20, 1938.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, February 19, 1940.
                  
                     70 NCTC, "The Example of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ," passim.
                  
                  
                     71
                            Ibid.; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, November 20, 1938. See, too, the widely syndicated article about 
                                Fort Wayne
                             by General Hugh Johnson, former head of NRA. This was reproduced in the 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 Municipal Review, VI (February-March, 1940), 3.
                  
                     72 This information was found in the 
                                Allen County
                             Public Library in a published Quest Club paper entitled The
                                Business of City Government, which Harry W. Baals delivered on April 17, 1936; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Press, November 26, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                  MAYOR HARRY W. BAALS OPENING THE FORT WAYNE CITY GOLF TOURNAMENT, 1940
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     although the value of the entire nation's output was
                    now 65 percent of the pre-Depression level.73 Some local businessmen, such as
                    Walter Goll of the General Electric Company, blamed 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's relatively slow recovery on the New Deal's failure to aid the
                    durable goods industry as much as agriculture and construction. In 1936, however, the International
                    Harvester Corporation reinvigorated the local economy by completing a plant expansion costing over
                    one million dollars. General Electric also began to hire additional labor after having rehired all
                    its regular employees.74 But the recession had a marked impact on 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and recovery thereafter was slow until the defense crisis in 1941. The value of
                    manufacturing output in 
                        Allen County
                     was only $120,531,458 in 1939 compared with $140,855,093 a decade
                        earlier.75 Twelve percent of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's labor force was still unemployed in 1940. One group was in a far worse
                    position than any other. For black workers, most of whom had occupied a peripheral role in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's pre-Depression economy as service employees, domestics, and laborers, the
                    unemployment figure was a horrific 38 percent.76
            
            The vast majority of the Summit City's businessmen initially flocked to support the National
                    Recovery Administration (NRA), 
                  
                     73 DRS, "Confidential Report," HOLC Records, 1.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, August 8, 1934; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, July 21, 1935, January 10, 1937.
                  
                     75 DRS, "Confidential Report," HOLC Records, 1;
                            U.S., Fifteenth Census 1930, III, Manufactures, 1929 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1933), 162; U.S., Sixteenth Census 1940, III, Manufactures, 1939 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1942), 278.
                  
                     76 U.S., Sixteenth Census 1940, III, Population: The Labor Force, Part 2, pp. 972–76, Part 1, pp.
                            58–59, 63–64. In this case, unemployment figures only include the two
                            categories of unemployed workers recorded in the 1940 census: those seeking employment and
                            those receiving temporary federal work relief. No account has been taken of workers who had
                            despaired of ever gaining or regaining employment and who had not listed themselves in their
                            census returns as seeking work. Actual figures are as follows: 
                        
                           Total Male Labor Force
                           On Work Relief
                           Seeking Employment
                        
                        
                           35,779
                           1,680
                           3,163
                        
                        
                           Total Female Labor Force
                            
                            
                        
                        
                           14,478
                           377
                           806
                        
                        
                           Male Blacks in Employment
                            
                            
                        
                        
                           455
                           132
                           148
                        
                        
                           Female Blacks in Employment
                            
                            
                        
                        
                           223
                           64
                           70
                        
                      The method of measuring overall unemployment was to express the combined total of
                            male and female workers in each category as a percentage of the total labor force. The same
                            method was used to measure black unemployment.
               
                     the New Deal agency promoting industrial recovery. By August,
                    1933, 850 
                        Fort Wayne
                     businesses, large and small, had signed the famous Blue Eagle codes that established
                    wage, price, and employment standards for different industries. For example, fifty-five downtown
                    stores agreed to have their employees work a maximum of forty hours and be paid at least
                    $13.50 each week.77 On August 31 NRA held a massive parade, watched
                    by an estimated crowd of fifty thousand, to publicize the Blue Eagle code campaign. During the fall
                    the major stores also held "NRA buying days," when prices were specially reduced
                    in a vain attempt to stimulate consumerism.78
            
            Less than a year later a poll conducted by the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News-Sentinel revealed that local business's support for NRA had faded.
                    Disillusioned by the agency's failure to generate full recovery, businessmen also expressed
                    other grievances. In general, the big manufacturing firms disliked the NRA price-fixing agreements;
                    small enterprises resented the minimum wage requirements; and shopkeepers protested the maximum
                    hours regulations.79 Nevertheless, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's principal businessmen acknowledged that the days of individualistic
                    capitalism were over. Arthur Hall, who had disdained federal intervention in the economy prior to
                    the Depression, now firmly approved of cooperation between government and business provided that
                    this took place on the latter's terms. He and his 
                        Fort Wayne
                     peers faulted the New Deal for raising taxes too much, for governing through
                    bureaucratic dictation, and, worst of all, for frequently supporting labor against business.80
            
            By strengthening labor's collective bargaining rights, NRA had encouraged unionization of
                    unskilled workers in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The resistance of employers to this development revived industrial conflict. In
                    September, 1933, the city experienced its first 
                  
                     77
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, July 22, 26, August 2, 1933. See, too, Industrial Loan
                            and Investment Company, Advertisement, "This Is Our NRA Program: Our Blue Eagle
                            Pledge," ibid., September 20, 1933.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., September 1, 1933; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, September 23, 1933.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, August 21, 1934.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., September 14, 1934; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, November 24, 1934. Union power continued to haunt local
                            businessmen as the economy improved. For example, Ben Geyer, a Wayne Pump Company executive,
                            warned that the "promise of recovery can be entirely thwarted if the uncertainty
                            and constant wrangling on the part of labor is not in some manner subdued or
                            controlled." See 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 10, 1937.
               
                    
                    
                  INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CORPORATION
                            at FORT WAYNE (1935–1936), SHOWING the PLANT EXPANSION
                  
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker. 
                                Fort Wayne
                            . Indiana.
               
                     serious strike since 1922. Over two hundred fifty employees of
                    the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Tailoring Company, most of them women, stopped work after the firm refused to recognize
                    the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America (ACWA) as their bargaining agent and negotiated with a
                    company union instead. Confrontations between picketers and "stickers" led to the
                    arrest of three women strikers for assault. To avoid more trouble, management and labor asked the 
                        United States
                     Department of Labor to intervene. Thanks to federal mediation, both sides agreed to
                    compromise. The company recognized ACWA as sole bargaining agent after a plant election was held.
                    The union, which had demanded a "closed shop," accepted a "preferential
                    shop" arrangement; workers could choose whether to join the union or not, but nonunion
                    members would be affected first when the firm had to lay off employees. Having won the day, the
                    strikers gathered at the Federation of Labor Hall and marched in triumph behind a brass band to the
                        factory.81
            
            This dispute provoked the first break in local businessmen's support for
                    Roosevelt's programs. They now felt that outside forces were threatening their independence
                    and undermining their influence in the community. Not only had the federal government backed the
                    union, but ACWA organizers had come from 
                        Chicago
                     to help run the strike. Oscar Foellinger, the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News-Sentinel publisher who chaired the 
                        Allen County
                     NRA committee, warned 
                        Washington
                     that local businessmen were beginning to regard the New Deal as a threat rather than an
                    ally in the struggle for industrial recovery.82
            
            There were many strikes in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     during the 1930s, notably at Magnavox, Wayne Knit, Inca, the Capehart Corporation, and
                    International Harvester. None of the disputes provoked serious violence, but the Inca strike was
                    particularly bitter because the company had lowered the minimum wage once NRA had been abolished in
                    1935. The strike lasted for nine weeks and became a test case for the National Radio and Allied
                    Trades Union. Its international president, James B. Carey, visited 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to encourage the strikers and lobbied in 
                        Washington
                     on their behalf. Partly as a result of Inca's defeat, Carey's union
                    decided 
                  
                     81
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, September 6, 15, and 16, 1933; H.B. Dynes to H. L.
                            Kerwin, September 19, 1933, File 390, Box 176, Conciliation Service, 
                                United States
                             Department of Labor (USDL) Records, RG 280 (National Archives, Suitland, 
                                Maryland
                            ).
                  
                     82 Oscar Foellinger to Johnson, September 12, 1933, File 392, Box 176,
                            Conciliation Service, USDL Records.
               
                     to hold its first national convention in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     after reconstituting itself as the United Electrical Radio and Machine Workers of
                    America and affiliating with the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) in 1936.83 These developments strengthened local businessmen's fears about outside
                    forces. In 1937 the Capehart Corporation alleged that the national CIO was funding the strike at its
                    plant. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News-Sentinel also accused the New Deal of encouraging the growth of communism
                    through its support of militant labor.84
            
            Although the Communist party did indeed gain some support within the local labor movement in the
                    1930s, it was not a significant force. Some UERMWA leaders in Local 901 at General Electric had
                    communist sympathies, but they could not control their union. Indeed the union's
                    vice-president, Ernest C. Gallmeier, and its wartime president, Sam McAfee, were firm supporters of
                    the Republican party.85 The help of Communist organizers, who had worked to
                    build up several 
                        Fort Wayne
                     unions, was usually discarded when the local was strong enough to stand on its own. For
                    example, Local 57 of the United Automobile Workers at International Harvester accepted aid from the
                    pro-Communist United Farm Workers after losing the 1938 plant election to a company union. The UAW
                    triumphed in the 1940 elections and called a strike when International Harvester refused to grant it
                    a contract. Yet the local would not allow Communist organizers to help with the strike because they
                    were so unpopular among the rank and file membership. Now strong enough not to need Communist aid,
                    the union became the first UAW local to win a contract from International Harvester.86
            
            It must be emphasized that the unions did not become a dominating force in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     during the 1930s. Two large 
                  
                     83 Robert Mythen to Kerwin, September 3, 1935, File 558, Box 182, ibid.; information taken from a clipping from an August, 1935, issue of
                                The Labor Current in File 558, Box 182, ibid.; 25th
                                Anniversary: Local 901, IUE, AFL-CIO (
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                     , 1958), 8.
                  
                     84
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, September 14, 18, June 30, 1937.
                  
                     85 The main pro-Communist voice was John Gojack, who became UERMWA
                            district president in the 1940s, when he came under increasing pressure from liberals and
                            moderates in the union. See, in particular, Executive Meeting Minutes, February 27, 1947,
                            UERMWA Local 901 Records. For the politics of Gallmeier and McAfee, see "New
                            Members of City Official Family," 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 Municipal Review, V (February, 1939), 4; and 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, September 19, 1938.
                  
                     86 Howard Minier, Local 57 trustee in 1940 and later prominent FWIUC
                            leader, interview with the author, May 12, 1980; "In the Beginning"
                            (unpublished report, copy in UAW Local 57 Union Hall, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ).
               
                     pump firms, for example, refused to recognize CIO locals until
                    well after World War II.87 Nevertheless, the New Deal's encouragement
                    of trade unionism was of major consequence to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Not only did the rise of unionism affect local industry, but it gave many unskilled
                    workers a collective voice to protect their interests. UERMWA Local 901, for example, scrutinized
                    the distribution of township relief. It also foreshadowed the CIO's Political Action
                    Committee by holding regular programs for members, explaining the significance of New Deal
                        measures.88 UERMWA therefore provided a counter influence to the previously
                    dominant conservatism in the community. Taking a keen interest in civic affairs, UAW Local 57 passed
                    a resolution at its very first meeting calling for better traffic safety precautions on roads
                    leading to the eastern industrial district. Soon afterward the municipal government installed
                    traffic lights at one particularly dangerous intersection.89 The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Industrial Union Council established an antidiscrimination committee in 1938 to protect
                    black rights both in industry and the community. Ineffectual at first, this body became more active
                    in the late 1940s when it supported the campaign ending Jim Crow restrictions in downtown
                    restaurants and hotels.90
            
            Yet the coming of the New Deal and the rise of organized labor did not generate enduring political
                    realignment in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . In 1940 the Republican national ticket swept the city, ending Roosevelt's run
                    of success. This Democratic decline was partly attributable to ethnic factors. The
                    president's foreign policy had alienated 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's 
                        German
                    -American voters, especially the Lutherans whom the New Deal had briefly converted to
                    the Democracy.91 Yet, as Table I shows, the local Republican party had held its
                    own, even at the height of Roosevelt's popularity. 
                  
                     87
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                             Urban League (FWUL), "A Survey of Racial Policies of Organized Labor
                            in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana" (unpublished report, 1953, copy in 
                                Allen County
                             Public Library), 31.
                  
                     88 Membership Meeting Minutes, March 21, 1936, UERMWA Local 901
                            Records. The Political Action Committee was created "to conduct a broad and
                            intensive programme of education for the purpose of mobilizing the 5m. members of the CIO
                            and enlisting the active support of all other trade unions, American Federation of Labour
                                [sic], Railroad Brotherhoods and unaffiliated, for effective labour
                            action on the political front." Vivian Vale, Labour in American
                                Politics (
                                London
                            , 1971), 90.
                  
                     89 "In the Beginning."
                  
                     90 FWUL, "A Survey of Racial Policies,"
                            8–9.
                  
                     91 Cleland to Edwin Pauley, November 16, 1942, Box 1156, Democratic
                            National Committee Papers (F#2 D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  Table I Democratic Percentage of Presidential and Mayoral Votes in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1920–1942.92
                  
                  
                     Presidential Election
                     Presidential Vote
                     Mayoral Election
                     Mayoral Vote
                  
                  
                     Year
                      
                     Year
                      
                  
                  
                     1920
                     
                        ∗40.3
                     1921
                     52.7
                  
                  
                     1924
                     
                        ∗∗43.1
                     1925
                     44.8
                  
                  
                     1928
                     42.3
                     1929
                     54.7
                  
                  
                     1932
                     56.7
                     1934
                     49.2
                  
                  
                     1936
                     58.9
                     1938
                     39.0
                  
                  
                     1940
                     42.5
                     1942
                     38.5
                  
               
                    
                  
                     ∗ includes vote of the Farmer-Labor candidate
                  
                     ∗∗ includes vote of the Progressive
                        candidate
                The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     GOP—thanks to the political acumen of its leaders, its efficient
                    organization, and its good record in municipal government—had already eroded some of the
                    New Deal's electoral popularity well before the close of the Depression decade.
            In this context the municipal election of 1934 was a crucial event. Democratic mayoral candidates in
                    many cities based their campaigns largely on the need to elect a local administration favorable to
                        Roosevelt.93 Hosey made the mistake of not doing likewise. Instead, he
                    preferred to build his campaign on his long record in office and on the need to preserve the fiscal
                    soundness of the municipal utilities against Republican tax cut proposals.94
                    Deflecting attention from the New Deal, this strategy enabled the GOP to exploit the tax issue. As a
                    result the Republicans won the mayoralty and four of the nine council seats, even though the
                    Democratic congressional ticket carried 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by over three thousand votes.95 Four years later the GOP could
                    point to its good record in office and its success in lowering taxes. Every candidate on the local
                    Republican ticket was successful in 1938; Baals himself won a massive victory, losing only two
                        precincts.96
            
            Leaders of the dominant Republican faction—Harry Baals, Harry Hogan, Walter Helmke, and
                    Dan Flanagan—were pragmatists 
                  
                     92 Figures from Cheryl Boss Truesdell, "Presidential and
                            Congressional Voting in 
                                Allen County
                            , 1852–1976," Old Fort News, XLI (No. 4,
                            1978), 17, 19; and the register of electoral returns in the 
                                Allen County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            .
                  
                     93 See, for example, Bruce M. Stave, "
                                Pittsburgh
                             and the New Deal," in John Braeman, Robert Bremner, and David Brody,
                            eds., The New Deal. Vol. II: The State and Local Levels
                                    (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1975), 386.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, April 3, October 22, 25, 26, November 4, 1934.
                  
                     95
                            Ibid., November 7, 1934.
                  
                     96
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, October 19, 25, November 8, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                  R. EARL PETERS, 1935
                  Courtesy Robert D. Parker, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                who acknowledged that Roosevelt had forged a new consensus. These men therefore accepted
                    federal relief, Social Security legislation, and a moderate extension of union rights as necessary
                    reforms. Mayor Baals cooperated well with the federal government, notably in the PWA-financed sewer
                    project. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Republicans also played an important role in liberalizing the state GOP.97 Once Roosevelt's popularity waned because of the recession, however, they were
                    quick to exploit the weaknesses of the New Deal. In particular, Republican leaders contrasted the
                    evidence of waste and maladministration in the 
                        Allen County
                     WPA organization with the record of the Baals administration. This attack hit home;
                    some Democrats estimated that their party won 
                  
                     97 Harry Hogan to Charles A. Halleck, September 8, 1938, Charles A.
                            Halleck Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, September 20, 1938; Iwan Morgan, "Factional
                            Conflict in Indiana Politics during the Later New Deal Years,
                            1936–1940," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (March,
                            1983), 29–60.
               
                     only 20 percent of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's WPA vote in 1938.98 The GOP also denounced the cutbacks
                    in 
                        Allen County
                    's WPA allocation in 1939–1940, conveniently ignoring the vote of
                    fourth district Republican congressman George W. Gillie to reduce the agency's
                    appropriation." In addition, Roosevelt's tariff policy came under fire. Hoping to
                    discredit the president before the workingman, local Republicans blamed the recession of
                    1937–1938 on cheap foreign imports.100
            
            The GOP built a powerful local organization during the Depression, despite the loss of its customary
                    state and federal patronage resources in 1933. Control of city hall gave the Republicans the means
                    to create a new political machine. Hosey had tried to keep the municipal utilities outside the realm
                    of patronage politics. In 1930 only two of the fifty-seven Democratic precinct committeepersons held
                    jobs in the utilities, while three more held municipal jobs. Eight years later, fourteen Republican
                    committeepersons worked for the utilities, seven others had members of their family so employed, and
                    six more held other municipal jobs.101 They formed the backbone of an efficient
                    precinct organization, which kept in close touch with constituents and provided many favors. The GOP
                    also maintained a high profile in the community by holding regular rallies. It did not ignore groups
                    that in other cities were regarded as solidly Democratic. For example, in 1938 the Republicans held
                    many "cottage gatherings" at the homes of working-class supporters to inform
                    relief laborers about WPA's shortcomings. The formation of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Republican Labor Club, in which Gallmeier and McAfee held prominent positions, helped
                    to establish links between the party and the new industrial unions. Not even the small black vote
                    was neglected; in 1938 William Briggs, the first black candidate in 
                        Allen County
                    's history, was elected Justice of the Peace for Wayne Township on the GOP
                        ticket.102
            
            
               
                  98 Cleland to Roper, November 14, 1938, Official File 300, Box 18,
                        Roosevelt Papers.
               
                  99 George W. Gillie to Governor M. Clifford Townsend, January 31,1940, WPA
                        relief workers petition enclosed, Drawer 133, Box A, M. Clifford Townsend Papers (Archives
                        Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical Building, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ); 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, December 4, 5, 1939.
               
                  100
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, September 18, 1938.
               
                  101 These figures are based on the occupational information given in the 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        City Directory of 1930 and 1938.
               
                  102 Joseph Suelzer to James A. Farley, December 22, 1938, Official File
                        300, Box 42, Roosevelt Papers; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, September 19, November 8, 1938; E. Ross Adair, 
                            Fort Wayne City
                         Republican Party chairman in the late 1930s and later fourth district congressman,
                        interview with the author, March 26, 1980.
            
            
            In contrast, local Democrats were badly organized and divided by factional controversy during the
                    1930s. Hosey normally kept in close touch with his constituency, but he was less active in the local
                    Democratic organization than in his prime. Aged seventy-six when elected in 1929, he used most of
                    his dwindling energy to fulfill the demands of the mayoral office. In these circumstances, R. Earl
                    Peters, a 
                        Fort Wayne
                     native prominent in state politics, gained control of the party.103
                    Peters used the local Democratic organization as a base from which to conduct his feud with Governor
                    McNutt who had driven him from his post as state party chairman in 1933. In turn, the statehouse
                    administration strove to break Peters's hold over the local party by starving it of
                    patronage. Although succeeding in 1936–1937, this strategy inevitably bred long-lasting
                    bitterness and made McNutt very unpopular in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .104 In essence, the dispute was the product of personal rivalry and
                    patronage politics, not ideological conflict. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Democrats overreacted to Hosey's defeat in 1934. Consumed by internal
                    bickering, they came to rely excessively on Roosevelt's personal appeal during the
                    mid-1930s. They made little effort to win the electorate's gratitude for themselves or to
                    educate the voters about the issues and virtues of the New Deal. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Democratic party offered no attractive local alternative to the Baals administration,
                    and the statehouse organization insisted that a handpicked pro-McNutt candidate, Harry Gottschalk,
                    should run for mayor in 1938.105 As a result, local Democrats had no solid
                    support to fall back on when Roosevelt's personal popularity faded. In metaphorical terms,
                    they were like Aesop's grasshopper, frittering away the New Deal summer, while the
                    Republican ants were patiently laying the foundations for a prosperous Republican future.106
            
            The New Deal had implemented numerous changes in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . It had reformed the unemployment relief system, given 
                  
                     103
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, May 10, 13, 1934. Hosey's personal supporters
                            partly reestablished their influence over the local Democratic party during the controversy
                            over the superhighway later in 1947. See 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, May 5, 1947.
                  
                     104 Coy to Marvin McIntyre, July 3, 1935, Official File 300, Box 18,
                            Roosevelt Papers; Alexander 
                                Campbell
                             to Paul McNutt, July 1, 1935, 
                                Campbell
                             to Pleas Greenlee, May 18, 1935, Drawer 83, Box (E), Paul V. McNutt Papers
                            (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and
                            Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, May 4, 1936.
                  
                     105 Adair interview; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, November 7, 1938.
                  
                     106
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                             voters have elected only four Democratic mayors since 1934, including Winfield
                            Moses who secured reelection in 1983, becoming the first Democratic mayor to win reelection
                            in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            . Furthermore, they have given a popular majority since 1936 to only one
                            Democratic presidential candidate, Lyndon B. Johnson, in 1964.
               
                     mortgage aid to homeowners, restored confidence in the banks,
                    financed the construction of important municipal projects, focused attention on the housing crisis,
                    and promoted the growth of trade unionism. None of these changes was truly radical in scope,
                    however, partly because of Roosevelt's moderate objectives, but also because local
                    opposition blunted their impact. A degree of continuity therefore characterized 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's experience in the 1930s. Proponents of home rule had helped to undermine
                    GCUR's efforts to professionalize and centralize Indiana's relief administration,
                    realtors and property owners' organizations had thwarted plans to redevelop parts of the
                    inner city to benefit low-income groups, employers had fought a stiff rearguard battle against the
                    rise of industrial unionism, and the local Republicans had beaten back the challenge of
                    Roosevelt's Democracy. On balance, the president's programs had done little to
                    resolve basic urban problems such as inner city decay and the shrinking municipal tax base. On the
                    other hand, the New Deal's impact on local community dynamics was far greater. During the
                    Hoover era the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     community had relied on its own resources and solidarity to combat the Depression. The
                    New Deal reversed this situation. Community solidarity inevitably declined from 1933 onward, as some
                    groups became clients of the national government while others resisted the New Deal's
                    expansion of federal power. This Hoosier community could never again act as a relatively independent
                    entity. The New Deal had drawn it into the complicated web of federal-urban relations. Henceforth
                    the federal government would be a vital influence on the economic, social, and political life of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Feeding Our Families: Memories of Hoosier Homemakers. Edited by Eleanor Arnold. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Extension Homemakers Association, 1983. Pp. 153. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $6.00.)
            
                    I love to keep house, bake pies. Nothing makes me happier than for the family to come in and I
                        can cook a big meal for them.
                    Clara Ashcroft, 70, 
                            Ohio County
                        
               
                
            
                    We baked bread every other day. Each pan held six loaves, so that would be 12 loaves every other
                        day.
                    You were feeding ten children, Pappa and Mamma, and Grandpa always stayed with us. That was 13
                        people in our family—that took a lot of bread.
                    Agnes Bell, 85, 
                            Hamilton County
                        
               
                
            In the words of women ranging in age from one hundred down to twenty-five, this delightful paperback
                    details the hard work, the unending tasks, and the gaiety and joy of keeping a home in rural Indiana
                    in the years from 1890 to 1930. The volume stands as a shining example of the possibilities for
                    effective public use of an oral history project and as a caution against overly logical
                    compartmentalization and too human nostalgia.
            Eleanor Arnold has lovingly brought together excerpts from the oral histories of 243 homemakers from
                    seventy-two counties. The excerpts are short, from a sentence to, very occasionally, three
                    paragraphs, followed by the name, age, and county of the speaker. The excerpts are organized by task
                    into chapters from "Raising and Preserving Fruits and Vegetables,"
                    "Butchering and Curing Meat," to "Eating with Others" (Sunday
                    dinners, family get-togethers), and "Feeding the Workers" (it was nothing to feed
                    sixteen to twenty men from the threshing team).
            The whole is bound together by an insightful introduction that summarizes the average rural home.
            
                    Each extended household was almost self-sufficient…. The household itself was
                        generally large, consisting of mother, father, many children, perhaps grandparents, unmarried
                        uncles or aunts, or orphaned cousins…. two or more hired men, an occasional hired
                        girl, and numerous guests, invited or drop-in…. the young homemaker of the day was
                        much of the time either pregnant or a nursing mother (pp. 9–11).
                
            The front and back pages of the volume provide the information that archivists call
                    "provenance," how the collection came to be. The preface explains the initiation
                    of the oral history project  in preparation for the
                    seventy-fifth anniversary of the Indiana Extension Homemakers Association in 1988, the process of
                    selecting and interviewing the homemakers, and the collection of photographs, newspaper clippings,
                    and other memorabilia to be preserved for public use in the Indiana Historical Society. All the
                    interviewees and interviewers are listed in the back of the book. Already a tape/slide show
                    consisting of a sound track of the women's voices and slides from the visuals has been
                    prepared from the collection.
            We read—with pleasure at the good humor expressed, with astonishment at the multitude and
                    heaviness of the household tasks, with recognition for we have heard similar accounts from our own
                    elders. The tight organization on specific areas of food preparation—cooking and baking,
                    milking and churning—provides 
                  HOMEMAKER with a DAY'S WORK, WHITE COUNTY—1923
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     a composite view of each task over forty years. This method has
                    its drawbacks, however. Lacking is a sense of the changes that took place over the years, of the
                    full daily routines of these women, and, most especially, of the social relationships between
                    members of these large, hardworking families. The tasks are isolated in time and context, and the
                    material becomes more a springboard for our own memories, personal or as told to us, than a
                    well-rounded picture of the lives of our not-so-distant fore-mothers. Be that as it may, reading the
                    book aloud will surely stimulate animated conversation between older and younger generations.
            
               Feeding Our Families is the first of a planned series entitled Memories of Hoosier Homemakers to be drawn from the collection. Others will deal with
                    social and family traditions, courtship and marriage, childbearing and child rearing, and the
                    effects of technology on the homemaker's chores. One suggestion for future volumes in the
                    series is that they include longer excerpts, better pinpointed as to what decade they are describing
                    and revealing more of the speakers' feelings about the significance of their tasks. From
                    this first book it is evident that the whole collection is a gold mine from which new nuggets of
                    insight into our past can be extracted again and again.
            The Indiana project serves as a pilot for the National Endowment for the Humanities, which plans to
                    document the National Extension Homemakers Council, with Indiana project director Eleanor Arnold
                    serving as chairman for the national project.
            
               Regional Oral History Office University of 
                     California, Berkeley
                  
                Willa
                    K. Baum
         
         
            
               Historic American Buildings Survey in Indiana. Edited by Thomas M. Slade. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, for the Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1983. Pp.
                    xviii, 156. Maps, notes, illustrations, figures, appendixes, index. Clothbound, $12.95;
                    paperbound, $7.95.)
            Indiana's contributions to the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) have been few but
                    solid. Only 161 (or about 1 percent) of the more than 16,000 buildings recorded in the Library of
                    Congress archive by 1979 came from Indiana. A handful of shrewd and pragmatic persons with limited
                    time and resources selected the Hoosier sites most likely to be recorded with federal assistance or
                    by volunteers. This volume catalogs the accomplishments of the vanguard that preceded the agencies
                    now charged with historic preservation in the state.
            
            
               BARBACK at ZAHARAKO'S CONFECTIONARY in COLUMBUS, INDIANA
               
               Reproduced in Thomas M. Slade, ed., Historic American Buildings Survey
                            in Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1983), 26; courtesy Indiana University Press, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            Begun in late 1933 as employment for architects and draftsmen during the Great Depression, HABS
                    operated until the opening of World War II. Once reactivated in 1957, it quickly surpassed the
                    prewar pace of recording, inaugurated the National Register of Historic Places (1966), and created
                    the Historic American Engineering Record (HAER) (1969) through fission. During this period the
                    federal government also extended its administrative interest and oversight by encouraging the
                    establishment of state historic preservation offices.
            Indiana maneuvered in the wake of federal action. Fourteen of the initial twenty-eight participants
                    contributed to the drawings of the approximately forty sites recorded before World War II. Domestic
                    architecture dominated the early selections, followed by public buildings and an occasional
                    commercial or "engineering" structure. The number of buildings recorded grew
                    dramatically and fitfully with the revival of activity in 1958 and expanded by more than one hundred
                    in the 1970s. The nature of the sites selected, however, did not change substantially, unless one
                    includes HAER's activities which are recognized here only in the appendixes.
            The explosion in the number of sites recorded since World War II quickly outdated even revised
                    versions of a national catalog. Thus, Indiana is about the eleventh to publish a state catalog.
                    Arranged geographically, entries succinctly describe each site, assess its historical significance,
                    and list basic records.
            The Indiana catalog fittingly records the individual interests and personal craftsmanship of a
                    collection of Hoosier pioneer preservationists from David Hermansen, Edward James, and H. Roll
                    McLaughlin to Samuel Roberson. The next generation of entries published will most likely come from
                    more corporate and standardized sources—from private organizations such as the Historic
                    Landmarks Foundation of Indiana or public agencies such as the State Historic Preservation Office.
                    As this volume makes clear, those leading today's efforts will almost inevitably follow
                    many a trail blazed a generation or more ago.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind. James L. Cooper
         
         
            
               Conquering the Rivers: Henry Miller Shreve and the Navigation of America's
                        Inland Waterways. By Edith McCall. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1984. Pp. 260. End maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            In Conquering the Rivers Edith McCall has written a biography of the working life
                    of Henry Miller Shreve, whom she calls the "Father of the Mississippi Steamboat."
                    When Shreve was  three years old in 1788, his family moved from
                    a 
                        Quaker
                     community in 
                        New Jersey
                     to the shores of the Monongahela River. From then until his death in 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1851, the Mississippi Valley was his home and its rivers his challenge.
                    Shreve's life-work was to make the Ohio and Mississippi rivers and
                    their tributaries the highways of settlement and commerce for the West. The challenge led him into
                    each phase of his career, from keelboat merchant to steamboat builder, to improver of the steamboat,
                    and finally to inventor of a snag boat that made the rivers safe for navigation. The monuments to
                    his success are the cities that prospered along the rivers he opened and the farmlands that grew to
                    productivity because he cleared the way for marketing their output. As Louis C. Hunter has observed
                    in his classic Steamboats on the Western Rivers (1949): "The growth of
                    the West and the rise of steamboat transportation were inseparable; they were geared together and
                    each was dependent upon the other" (p. 32). Henry Shreve led the way and made possible the
                    growth of the West and the rise of the steamboat.
            McCall, author or coauthor of some forty-five books on topics in American history, has written a
                    lively and engaging narrative about the life of Shreve. She writes history, as Barbara W. Tuchman
                    once said, not "to instruct but to tell a story." The author tells a story well.
                    Through spritely prose the reader follows Shreve in service on flatboat, keelboat, and steamboat as
                    he learned the dangers and idiosyncracies of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers.
                    This intimate knowledge allowed him to design and build his first steamboat, the 
                        
                            Washington
                        
                     (1816), and later the George 
                            Washington
                        
                (1824). In building the George 
                            Washington
                        
                Shreve introduced innovations—three decks, shallow hull, the
                    hogframe, and separate engines for each paddle wheel—that made it the prototype of the
                    huge "floating palaces" that followed (p. 174).
            Shreve then turned his attention to the greatest hazards to the steamboat in the rivers, the snags
                    and sawyers that obstructed navigation. In 1826 he became superintendent of western river
                    improvements for the 
                        United States
                     government, and he spent the remainder of his career clearing the rivers of the
                    Mississippi Valley of these hazards. His greatest challenge came with the clearing of the Great Raft
                    of the Red River, and his success led to the naming of Shreveport in his honor. Following his
                    retirement as superintendent in 1841, he spent the remainder of his life promoting the growth of 
                        St. Louis
                     and seeking compensation from Congress for the use of the snag boats, Heliopolis (1829) and Archimedes (1831), which he had invented to clear
                    the rivers. The suit was still pending at the time of his death in 1851.
            Engaging as the author's narrative is, the historian will have trouble with her presentation
                    of the traditional image of Shreve.  In 1949 in Steamboats on the Western Rivers Louis C. Hunter challenged this view when he declared:
                    "such evidence as is available suggests that Shreve's boats, so far as major
                    structural features are concerned, did not differ materially from other steamboats of their
                    day" (p. 76). If the author has new evidence that refutes Hunter, she fails to present it.
                    Rather she footnotes sparingly and relies heavily on secondary sources published before 1949, such
                    as Emerson W. Gould's Fifty Years on the 
                            Mississippi
                        
                published in 1889. Hunter has said that the case "made in behalf of
                    Shreve is overstated" (p. 15), and this reviewer has found no evidence in McCall's
                    study to refute that judgment. On the contrary, the author's heroic presentation of Shreve
                    perpetuates the overstatement without substantial justification.
            In writing this book McCall set as her purpose to reveal in a combined narrative the story of the
                    opening of the inland rivers and the life of Henry Miller Shreve. In this she has succeeded. Her
                    well-written effort cannot help but renew popular interest in two highly interesting and interwoven
                    phases of American history.
            
               Tri-State University, 
                            Angola
                        , Ind. Donald T. Zimmer
         
         
            
               The Indian Frontier of the American West, 1846–1890. By Robert M.
                    Utley. (Albuquerque: University of New 
                        Mexico
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xxi, 325. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $19.95; paperbound, $10.95.)
            Robert M. Utley faces an enormous task in synthesizing the literature of the western Indian frontier.
                    Quite appropriately, he uses the Mexican War and the Massacre at Wounded Knee on the Pine Ridge
                    reservation as the chronological limits of his newest book. To give unity to his narrative, Utley
                    identifies two theses around which he organizes his account. He maintains that "the
                    frontier condemned the two [Indians and Anglo-Americans] to a physical union, while a great cultural
                    chasm condemned them never really to see or understand each other" (p. xix). Disagreeing
                    with Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner's concept of the frontier as a "single line," Utley
                    hypothesizes that in the American West Indians and Anglo-Americans met in "groupings of
                    frontier zones" where they mingled and changed, "in ways never really perceived as
                    attributable to the other" (p. xx). The last pages of The Indian Frontier
                    are devoted to a critique of Turner, concluding that "modern America is uniquely, as Turner
                    failed to perceive, a blend of its immigrant and native heritages" (p. 272).
            Yet, The Indian Frontier is principally an account of the western Indian wars.
                    Those conflicts intensified as the United  States government
                    attempted to restrict the movement of Indians and to place tribes on reservations. The reservation
                    policy with the government's attendant bungling, corruption, and inefficiency culminated in
                    a series of guerilla-like wars which were fought in small skirmishes and with relentless pressure by
                    slow-moving army columns. The Navajo, Cheyenne-Sioux, Kiowa-Comanche, Nez Perce, Apache, and other
                    campaigns finally drove the tribes to western reservations and dependence upon the federal
                    government for the necessities of life. President Ulysses S. Grant's peace policy and the
                    programs of the eastern "Friends of the Indians" never succeeded in transforming
                    the Native Americans into self-supporting farmers, Christians, and citizens who owned and tilled
                    individualized tracts of land. Indians were torn between two conflicting desires of whites:
                    reformers wanted to acculturate and assimilate the Indian people, but the westerners wanted Indian
                    land and resources. However sincere and well-meaning the reformers were, their policies were carried
                    out by an Indian Service riddled with greed, corruption, patronage, and incompetence.
            Admittedly this book was written for general readers and students, not for specialists in Indian
                    history. Utley writes lucidly, providing the reader with ample facts and deft characterizations of
                    Indian leaders, army officers, Indian Service personnel, and eastern politicians. To produce this
                    volume the author has utilized his previous books, weaving other pertinent secondary works into
                    several of his early and later chapters.
            Occasionally, brevity leads the author into incomplete or erroneous statements. Usage of the term
                    "Southern Comanches" connotes a political cohesiveness which never characterized
                    Comanche organization (p. 56). The Comanche divisions were autonomous, and a treaty with the
                    Penateka possessed no significance to the Nokoni or Kwahadi who shared portions of the Comanche
                    domain. The Cheyenne-Arapaho Sand Creek reservation of 1861 extended north and south of the Arkansas
                    River (p. 86). Red Cloud was not the leader of all the Oglala Sioux in 1865–1868 because
                    the tribe was divided into two groups, the Bear People and the Cloud People, with Red Cloud having
                    ascendancy among the latter (p. 100). The Cheyenne-Arapaho Darlington Agency was not located on the
                    1867 Medicine Lodge Treaty lands but on the 1869 executive order reservation (p. 173). Sale of
                    Indian allotments began well before the expiration of the twenty-five-year trust period provided in
                    the 1887 Dawes Act. 
                        United States
                     statutes of 1902, 1906, and 1907 led to early alienation of the Indian land base, which
                    severely jeopardized the intent of the Dawes Act  sponsors.
                    These limited errors, however, do not diminish the excellence of this perceptive, original, and
                    interpretive study of the western Indian frontier.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind. Donald J. Berthrong
         
         
            
               The Land before Her: Fantasy and Experience of the American Frontiers,
                        1630–1860. By Annette Kolodny. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xix, 293. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $28.00; paperbound, $9.95.)
            On the morning of July 20, 1846, George Donner's party of eighty-two left the Oregon Trail
                    to strike off on a wholly untried shortcut to 
                        California
                    's paradise. They were pursuing a fantasy set down by Lansford Hastings, a
                    speculator in human dreams whose Emigrants' Guide to Oregon and 
                            California
                        
                (1845) capitalized on generations of American mythologizing about the thrill
                    of possessing virgin land. All but Tamsen Donner were "elated and in fine spirits"
                    at their quickening fortunes. Tamsen was "gloomy, sad, and dispirited."1 She could not shake her fear that, by abandoning the known road and the larger
                    wagon train for a speculator's promise of easy going, her husband was making a terrible
                    mistake. Caught straggling in the wilds four months later by early winter snows, thirty-five of the
                    party died hideous deaths. Forty-seven survived, nourished in their gruesome mountain refuge by the
                    flesh of the dead. For Tamsen Donner the disjunction between fantasy and experience was fatal.
            Annette Kolodny, in The Land before Her, makes it possible to see Tamsen
                    Donner's apprehensions as part of a rich legacy of women's fantasies, fears, and
                    imaginary projections of the American frontier. Although Kolodny does not discuss the portentous
                    conflict between Tamsen's rationality and George's adventurism, she does find in
                    women's voices precisely the sensible fears of the unknown, the communal values, and the
                    domesticating instincts that might have restrained such "American Adams" as George
                    Donner in their reckless assault on the continental wilderness. The book begins with captivity
                    narratives from the early woodland frontiers. Women held captive by Indians experienced paralyzing
                    fear, sexual displacement, and despair in the wilderness, but almost never the seductions of the
                    forest or heroic liberation 
                  
                     1 The quotations are from the diary of Jessy Quinn Thornton, who had
                            traveled with the Donners since Illinois but who stayed on the Oregon Trail. Bernard DeVoto,
                                The Year of Decision, 1846 (
                                Boston
                            , 1942), 315.
               
                     from civilization that characterized men's fantasies.
                    Confronted with the raw environment, women consistently expressed their preference for gardens, for
                    neighbors, for community. The middle chapters find women like Margaret Fuller and Caroline Kirkland
                    publishing their own views on forest and prairie frontiers. The voices are ambivalent,
                    simultaneously seeking new hope in the parklike grasslands and documenting the tragedies of women
                    who endured isolation, endless labor, pregnancies, and child care in cramped cabins while their
                    menfolk hunted, fished, and ravished the earth with ax and plow. The final chapters turn to a
                    flowering of hopeful expression in the domestic novels of the 1850s. Severely restricted by the
                    conventions of Victorian "domesticity," female authors seized upon the prairies as
                    settings for feminine fantasies about communities purged of such historical fruits of man's
                    aggression as industrial blight and black slavery.
            Kolodny insists that her book is "neither social history nor literary history, but the
                    sequence of fantasies through which generations of women came to know and act upon the
                    westward-moving frontier" (p. xii). As an explication of previously unheard voices in
                    American literature, it is a welcome gift. But Kolodny's subtitle and much of her argument
                    promise connections, between these "paradigms" of the head (p. xii) and the
                    historical landscapes of experience, that are never delivered. She links women's
                    perceptions only to the act of composing literature, but the implied connection is to pioneering
                    itself. She treats female expressions as literary triumphs precisely at the moment they lose touch
                    with reality and begin projecting their own Utopian (and life threatening) images of paradise. Thus,
                    Tamsen Donner is quoted (p. 233) as one of a new generation of females participating for the first
                    time in hopeful projections of frontier garden communities. But Tamsen Donner died in the High
                    Sierra and was probably eaten by a male survivor; she was the most extraordinary victim of the
                    continuing power and domination of reckless male fantasies of possession and conquest. Fantasy and
                    experience are in savage discord, but readers are not told so. Instead, against this awful reality
                    Kolodny sets the literary prediction that on the California and Oregon frontiers
                    "Eve" would assert a garden "wholly her own" in which
                    "Adam would become superfluous to the Homestead Eden" (p. 241). Kolodny's
                    promise of another volume to bring the fantasy "full circle" does little to
                    satisfy the reader's craving for conclusions to many provocative threads of her complex
                    argument.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind. John Lauritz Larson
         
         
         
            
               Women Teachers on the Frontier. By Polly Welts Kaufman. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1984. Pp. xxiii, 270. Illustrations, notes, maps,
                    appendixes, tables, selected bibliography, index. $22.50.)
            Polly Welts Kaufman has written a fascinating account of National Popular Education Board teachers
                    and their frontier experiences from 1847 to 1854. Catharine Beecher promoted the idea of sending
                    Board-trained, surplus eastern women to the West, which in her view had too many Catholic schools
                    and not enough Protestant teachers. Thus, Board teachers would educate roughhewn frontier pupils and
                    inculcate religious values in them. A long introduction is devoted to the Board's history,
                    and analyzes the teachers' experiences. Most of the book consists of one teacher's
                    journal and selected letters of twelve others, including Cynthia M. Bishop who taught in New Durham
                    and 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. Two excellent maps give geographical perspective. Statistical profiles of all
                    known Board teachers, comparisons with Mt. Holyoke alumnae, and a biographical table are appended.
                    Most of the teachers discussed in Kaufman's book taught in the Old Northwest; more than
                    fifty came to Indiana.
            The centerpiece of the work is Arozina Perkins's journal, a unique document that expresses
                    her sensitive personality and the culture that spawned Board teachers. Passionate religious
                    feelings, family, church, and school shaped her life. Perkins probably had no difficulty in
                    demonstrating the personal conversion experience that Beecher required of all teachers. She wanted
                    her western teaching to be a "pure and holy"
                    experience (p. 125). It was not all that she hoped it would be. Like other Board teachers, she had
                    successes and failures. Circumstances forced Bishop to temper her evangelical enthusiasm. Learning
                    that she might not be permitted to use the Bible in 
                        Lafayette
                    's new public school, she decided to "teach the scholars
                        the golden rule & many other Bible precepts, whether I tell them
                    where I found them or not" (p. 175).
            Board teachers were obligated to stay in the West for two years, but some of them were not able to
                    adjust to rugged and unfamiliar surroundings. Homesick and upset because they had failed, they sadly
                    wrote to the Board, explaining why they had decided to return East. Many of them remained in the
                    West, at least for a time, including Keziah Price Lister, who married the prominent Calvin Fletcher
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A few went even farther afield in their teaching and missionary endeavors; one, for
                    example, went to 
                        Turkey
                    , and others taught freedmen after the Civil War. Whatever their fates, these women were
                    an important  part of the effort to extend eastern norms to the
                    West. Kaufman's book makes their experience conveniently accessible for the first time and
                    shows how women subtly and significantly contributed to Manifest Destiny.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Albert L. Hurtado
         
         
            
               The 
                            Lincoln
                         Image: Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                         and the Popular Print. By Harold Holzer, Gabor S. Boritt, and Mark E. Neely,
                    Jr. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1984. Pp. xxi, 234. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $35.00.)
            This is as much a book about the development of the American public's "pictorial
                    consciousness" in the nineteenth century as it is a tribute to the memory of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     on the 175th anniversary of his birth. The authors have brilliantly succeeded in
                    pursuing both purposes, weaving the specific evidence of 
                        Lincoln
                    's evolving public image between 1860 and 1869 into the larger context of the
                    development of a popular visual culture. It is this achievement that distinguishes the book from
                    what it appears to be at first glance—a glossy, expensive picture book appropriate for
                    "yuppie" coffee tables.
            In other words, The 
                            Lincoln
                         Image is a fine, excellently researched, carefully written, and handsomely
                    presented contribution to an aspect of American cultural history that is emerging as one of the more
                    interesting new areas of interdisciplinary scholarship. It is an area that also has, or should have,
                    broad appeal beyond the scholarly community because of its relevance to contemporary discussions
                    about the decline of literacy and the ascent of pictorial communication. The years of 
                        Lincoln
                    's presidency coincided with the period in which pictorial mass communication
                    began to have an impact on American culture, although not yet primarily by way of photography
                    because the halftone process had not been invented. It is fascinating to read (and see) how 
                        Lincoln
                    's public image was shaped by painters and engravers who, more often than not,
                    copied from each other and from photographs without much concern for either fidelity or honest
                    acknowledgment of their sources.
            A case in point is the Mathew Brady studio's handsome photograph of 
                        Lincoln
                     and his son Tad (Fig. 82), which was the model for a wretched hand-colored lithograph
                    (Fig. 83) as well as for part of a lithograph showing the 
                        Lincoln
                     family gathered around a table (Fig. 84). It appears again, now in mirror reversal, as
                    part of an oil painting of the family by Francis Bicknell Carpenter (Fig. 85), which in turn was
                    made into a mezzotint engraving  (Fig. 86). The Brady photograph
                    can still be recognized as the source for another lithograph (Fig. 87), only now with the
                    astonishing transformation of Tad into Willie, the Lincolns' second son, who had died three
                    years before the print was issued.
            The authors of The 
                            Lincoln
                         Image clearly demonstrate that in the short period between 
                        Lincoln
                    's first campaign and his assassination the public's view of this
                    extraordinary-looking man underwent a dramatic change. Within six years the beardless face of young,
                    ungainly "Honest Abe the Railsplitter" was turned into a vision of the
                    apotheosized "Savior of the Country," complete with heroic emblems that hitherto
                    in American iconography had been reserved for George 
                        Washington
                     alone. This transformation tells much about the emergence of American popular pictorial
                    culture and its impact on political image making. Even the single authorial error that this reviewer
                    detected does not diminish the value of this excellent book. What the authors identify as an
                    "olive branch [held] over 
                        Washington
                    " in Fig. 96 is quite obviously a palm leaf, the traditional symbol of
                    martyrdom rather than peace. An angel holds it and a laurel wreath over 
                        Lincoln
                     as he ascends to heaven, aided by the heavenly host and America's first
                    president. The iconography then is consistent with the title of the picture, "Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , The Martyr./Victorious."
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Christoph K. Lohmann
         
         
            
               True Sisterhood: Michigan Women and Their Kin, 1820–1920. By Marilyn
                    Ferris Motz. (
                        Albany
                    : State University of 
                        New York
                     Press, 1983. Pp. xii, 199. Illustrations, appendixes, tables, notes, bibliography,
                    index. Clothbound, $31.50; paperbound, $8.95.)
            
               True Sisterhood, a 1981 doctoral dissertation at the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , is a literary analysis of correspondence in thirty large collections of family papers
                    at the Bentley Historical Library, 
                  Ann Arbor,
                            Michigan
               . The goal of the study was to
                    explore the workings of female kinship systems in these nineteenth-century white Protestant
                    native-born families. While at least one household in each of the thirty family groups (each group
                    being composed of numerous households through several generations) lived in 
                        Michigan
                    , the other correspondents lived in other, unidentified locations. There is only an
                    incidental Michigan focus; the author reveals little interest in 
                        Michigan
                     (Michigan history is relegated to an appendix) and none in the local origins of female
                    kin who lived elsewhere.
            The study is ahistorical in approach; Marilyn Ferris Motz has looked for "a pattern of
                    interactions common to the families examined"  and has ignored
                    "changes through time, distinctions between urban and rural households, and other
                    variations in the general patterns set forth here" (p. 8). The result is a sort of
                    monolithic nineteenth-century American family, basically unchanged from 1820 to 1920 and unaffected
                    by regional or class differences, war, industrialization, urbanization, higher education for women,
                    the temperance movement, or women's clubs. And all white native-born Protestants were
                    characterized by the same system, whether they were Lutheran or Baptist, Presbyterian or 
                        Quaker
                    . (While Motz cautions in her introduction against assuming that these thirty families
                    represent all of America or even 
                        Michigan
                    , in fact she continually generalizes about Michigan and American women on the basis of
                    her study.)
            Motz describes a world in which women were almost entirely confined to the family sphere and
                    basically were satisfied to be there. As part of an intense network of female kin, a woman,
                    according to Motz, had no yearnings for autonomy: "Since she derived security and
                    satisfaction from her familial relationships, she failed to imagine an independent existence except
                    in terms of loneliness and powerlessness" (p. 7). Along with her female kin, a woman
                    "formed the backbone of the family in the nineteenth century" (p. 128). The
                    nuclear family, by contrast with sisterhood, was a weak association: "Marriage constituted
                    only a part, in fact a relatively unstable part, of the nineteenth-century family" (p.
                    130). Although Motz alternately stresses women's power and vulnerability in this system,
                    she clearly rejects Carl Degler's conclusion that women were at odds with the family. Motz
                    argues that Degler misunderstood what "the family" meant to nineteenth-century
                    women: the family meant their female kin, and they were not at odds with their
                    sisters—only with their husbands. The family (i.e., the female kin) actually enabled
                    women to develop increasing autonomy within marriage, Motz reasons (pp. 4–5). Motz never
                    recognizes that women sometimes resented the relentless claims of female kin and a claustrophobic
                    system of family ties.
            While True Sisterhood pioneers in using collections of family papers to study
                    kinship networks and makes some interesting claims about women's roles in
                    nineteenth-century families, Motz fails to marshall her evidence convincingly.
            
               
                  
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind. Lana Ruegamer
         
         
            
               Missionaries and Muckrakers: The First Hundred Years of Knox College. By Hermann
                    R. Muelder. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1984. Pp. 382. Notes, illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $19.95.)
            Knox College in 
                  Galesburg, Illinois
               , possesses a distinguished history as one of the
                    most social reform-minded and intellectually  elite
                    trans-Appalachian colleges. Hermann R. Muelder—Knox alumnus, historian, dean, and acting
                    president—has written what in many ways is a very competent history of the institution.
                    Unfortunately, however, he omitted the period of his professional involvement because of a fear that
                    he would bias the account; thus, he chose to end his narrative with the centennial year 1937.
                    Perhaps he was following the example of the preceding Knox historian, Earnest Elmo Calkins, who,
                    writing in 1937, limited his narrative of Knox and the surrounding 
                  Galesburg, Illinois
               , community (They Broke the 
                            Prairie
                        
               ) to the nineteenth century. One wishes that Muelder had followed the pattern
                    of several historian-administrators (e.g., Wilson Lyon of Pomona and Pay-son Wild of Northwestern)
                    who have written objective and comprehensive institutional histories.
            Muelder's volume especially emphasizes: 1) students in general; 2) the careers of well-known
                    literary alumni such as Eugene Field, Edgar Lee Masters, magazine publisher and editor Samuel
                    McClure, and 
                        New York
                    
                    Times editor John Finley; 3) leading faculty personalities (e.g., astronomy
                    instructor "Professor Moon" of Master's Spoon River
                        Anthology); and 4) the relationship of the college to the larger society (e.g., the
                    involvement of the college in abolitionism, the role of its alumni in stimulating Progressive Era
                    reforms, and the influence of the students in introducing and developing the popular intercollegiate
                    oratorical competition). By contrast, the author shows less concern with the details of
                    institutional administration and finance and curricular development and classroom activities; also
                    he largely ignores educational philosophy and the secularization process.
            There is much about this book to commend. Muelder's research is thorough, he writes with an
                    engaging style, he often relates the necessary factual details dynamically through the lives of
                    leading characters in the story, and he avoids the parochial orientation of many college histories.
                        Missionaries and Muckrakers now stands as the single best source on the
                    history of 
                        Knox
                    , but for the total story it needs to be combined with the aforementioned Calkins book
                    on the important town-college relations, the fine study by Thomas Askew on the changing intellectual
                    history of the college ("The Liberal Arts College Encounters Intellectual Change: A Comparative
                    Study of Education at Knox and Wheaton Colleges, 1837–1925," Ph.D. dissertation,
                    Department of History, Northwestern University, 1969), and Muelder's own forthcoming
                    memoirs on the modern period.
            
               Taylor University, Upland, Ind. William C. Ringenberg
         
         
         
            
               Two Sisters for Social Justice: A Biography of Grace and Edith Abbott. By Lela
                    B. Costin. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1983. Pp. xv, 315. Illustrations, bibliographical essay,
                    notes, published works of Edith and Grace Abbott, index. $18.50.)
            Lela B. Costin's informative biography of Grace and Edith Abbott details the public careers
                    of two sisters who were in the vanguard of social justice reform efforts in the first four decades
                    of the twentieth century. Grace directed the 
                        Chicago
                     Immigrants' Protective League from 1907 to 1917 and worked with the 
                        United States
                     Children's Bureau, first as director of the Child Labor Division from 1917 to
                    1919 and then as head of the bureau from 1921 to 1934. Edith, who had a Ph.D. in economics, edited
                    the Social Service Review and was instrumental in the formation and development of
                    the School of Social Service Administration at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . Through her insistence that social work education be based on social science research,
                    not narrow practical training in fieldwork, she influenced social work programs throughout the
                    country. Writing a dual biography complicated Costin's task, but it was the right decision
                    because the efforts and vast accomplishments of Edith and Grace Abbott were inextricably linked.
            Costin skillfully traces the evolution and maturation of their extraordinary professional
                    relationship. During their ten years at Hull House, beginning in 1908, the sisters shaped and
                    perfected their partnership. Edith, the scholar, was an inexhaustible researcher who gathered the
                    facts and provided an "exact base of knowledge for their common endeavors" (p.
                    98). Grace, the activist, used this knowledge as an administrator and advocate for the rights of
                    immigrants, workers, children, and mothers. Both demonstrated an ability to place problems in their
                    broadest social context. When Grace moved to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., in 1917, Edith continued to provide data on a range of topics related to
                    Grace's often frustrating work in the federal government. As the partnership matured and
                    the sisters' influence grew in the 1920s, they became increasingly effective in using the
                    "resources of government and higher education to get the most out of each" (p.
                    162).
            Their efforts during the 1920s provide evidence of the importance of women in continuing the crusade
                    for social justice reforms, but Costin indicates that it was in the last years of the Herbert Hoover
                    administration and the early years of the New Deal that their combined expertise proved most
                    valuable. Persistent and influential critics of Hoover's voluntarism, they documented  "the extent and nature of the suffering, and used
                    every opportunity to speak and write about the need for federal aid and public policy which would
                    make possible a modern system of social security" (p. 204). Although lifelong Republicans,
                    they welcomed the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt. As realists, the Abbotts believed that
                    New Deal legislation, however imperfect, represented a significant departure from the past.
                    Grace's activities were circumscribed by serious illness. She resigned from the
                    Children's Bureau in 1934, but her thoughts on several issues had an important impact on
                    Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins. With the expansion of the public welfare system,
                    Edith's work with the School of Social Service Administration received national
                    recognition. Welfare administrators sought her recommendations for filling their staff needs, and
                    she was thus able to "advance her concept of social work in the public sector by educating
                    and sending out staff all over the country" (p. 229).
            
               Two Sisters for Social Justice succeeds as a study of the public lives of Grace and
                    Edith Abbott; it is less illuminating on their personal lives. Despite several comments on their
                    character traits, neither emerges as complete personalities. For example, there are many references
                    to Edith's research, but there is very little on the actual content of her investigations
                    or the nature of the personal satisfaction she derived from this work. Costin relates the
                    sisters' lives to recent scholarship on the history of women only in the preface. She notes
                    that the Abbotts, unlike Jane Addams, were professional experts who challenged conventional images
                    of women, but she does not develop this question of divergent female identities in the remainder of
                    the biography. Costin also remarks in the preface that both sisters supported the need for
                    protective legislation for women workers. Since this was the critical divisive issue among women in
                    the 1920s, it is curious that it never reappears in the biography. Finally, neither married and both
                    had close female friendships, but Costin fails to explore the nature of the female support network
                    that sustained both sisters. Costin has written a good biography; more attention to other works on
                    women's history and to the private lives of the Abbott sisters would have made this an even
                    stronger book.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind. Barbara J. Steinson
         
         
            
               Down From Equality: Black Chicagoans and the Public Schools, 1920–41.
                    By Michael W. Homel. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1984. Pp. xiii, 219. Notes, maps, tables, illustrations,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $19.95.)
            Michael Homel, in this book about black Chicagoans and the public schools, shows a facility for
                    understanding the role of schools  in society. Labeling them
                    conserving institutions, rather than leaders in reordering social attitudes and relationships, is
                    consistent with many sociological interpretations of education in the 
                        United States
                    . Although the separate and unequal education system in 
                        Chicago
                     was developed through administrative manipulation rather than legislation, it grew in
                    much the same fashion as systems in other cities where the creation of segregated schools was
                    enacted by law.
            Homel covers much territory in this small volume but does so with great care. Only because the book
                    deals with a relatively brief period is he able substantially to document such a broad list of
                    topics: funding, facilities, home, community, classroom, and black activism. He dramatically shows
                    how factors from each of these categories contributed to inequality for black children in the public
                    education system of 
                        Chicago
                    . Even though Homel paints a bleak picture of education for blacks "between the
                    wars," he makes a point that many have missed while conducting similar studies in
                            
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati, St. Louis
               , and
                    other cities: 
                        If public education did not help liberate blacks in the way that the myths of equal
                            opportunity and social mobility promised, the schools were nonetheless a catalyst for social
                            change. In 
                                Chicago
                            , as elsewhere, blacks' experiences with the public schools heightened
                            their sensitivity to racial injustice and stimulated civic action that promoted group
                            solidarity and tried to improve black lives (p. xii).
                    
            
            Resistance to the denial of equal opportunity for black children, as documented by Homel, was part of
                    the mission of a small black middle and upper class. Of the protesting groups to which they
                    belonged, the 
                        Chicago
                     Urban League was most active. Homel also indicates that the ability of each
                    organization's leaders to "identify and articulate issues that had mass
                    appeal" usually made the difference in the intensity of involvement by each organization.
                    As in other communities, many attempts at activism failed at the grassroots, usually getting no
                    farther than an organizational effort at a local level or, at best, the local black newspaper.
            Homel discusses the difficulty of obtaining cooperation from officials in the 
                        Chicago
                     public schools while engaged in his research, even speculating that much of the
                    material requested might have been destroyed or records might not have accurately reflected the
                    presence of black students. This dilemma led to greater use of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Defender newspaper, which actively attempted to counteract overt racism in the 
                        Chicago
                     public schools. Homel has written a very worthwhile addition to the library of those
                    interested in a broader-than-usual view of black education  in a
                    northern city. It supplements very nicely other contemporary works about 
                        Chicago
                     and about blacks in public schools.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind. Stanley 
                        Warren
                    
            
         
         
            
               Making the Second Ghetto: Race and Housing in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1940–1960. By Arnold R. Hirsch. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Eng.: 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1983. Pp. xv, 362. Illustrations, maps, tables, notes, index.
                    $24.95.)
            I recall reading, some years ago, Robert Caro's The Power Broker: Robert Moses
                        and the Fall of 
                            New York
                        
                (1975) and wishing that someone would write a similar study of the creation of
                    the modern westside and southside ghettos in 
                        Chicago
                    . That wish has been fulfilled. While Arnold R. Hirsch's painstakingly
                    researched Making the Second Ghetto: Race and Housing in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1940–1960 lacks the journalistic flair of Caro's work,
                    Hirsch is to be commended for this solid contribution to urban studies. I grew up on the westside of 
                        Chicago
                     during the tumultuous decade of the 1960s; thus, this volume possessed a special
                    personal and professional poignancy. There always existed, among the residents of the westside
                    ghetto, a nagging suspicion that forces beyond their control were shaping and controlling their
                    lives. Their suspicions were, it now appears, quite justified.
            Hirsch focuses on the interplay of white social, political, ethnic, and economic forces that
                    converged to create vast concentrations of poverty-stricken blacks living within carefully defined
                    geographic boundaries. To be sure, 
                        Chicago
                    's second black ghettos as created and shaped during the post-World War II
                    years owe their existence not to a single dominant Moses-type personality. In 
                        Chicago
                     there existed clusters of private and public sector influences such as the University
                    of 
                        Chicago
                    , white "ethnics," corrupt political machine bosses, and business
                    elites who, for different reasons and motivations, employed diverse tactics to achieve the same
                    objectives of keeping black Chicagoans powerless and of preserving residential segregation. Hirsch
                    asserts that "the implication of government in the second ghetto was so pervasive, so deep,
                    that it virtually constituted a new form of de jure segregation" (p. 255).
                    Hirsch's concentration on the whites who made the ghetto, rather than the blacks who
                    endured it, expands understanding of the relationship between segregated housing, political power,
                    and racial antipathies.
            Most recent studies in black urban history end with the coming of World War II. Hirsch, by examining
                    the post-World War II city, has boldly moved ahead into new, unexplored territory. In so doing he
                    has unearthed numerous race riots of the 1940s  and 1950s
                    overshadowed by the disturbances of the 1960s. His complex analysis of the inner city
                    "ethnics" who used violence to prevent racial succession, of the intellectual
                    origins of urban renewal and redevelopment, and of the manipulation of politics and government will
                    undoubtedly generate new and exciting discussions among urban historians. Indeed, his discussion of
                    the strategic uses of white violence is especially provocative. The numerous photographs scattered
                    throughout the volume add to its overall tone. Making the Second Ghetto is an
                    important book full of original insight and is well worth reading.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind. Darlene Clark Hine
         
         
            
               The Log Cabin Myth: The Social Backgrounds of the Presidents. By Edward Pessen. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1984. Pp. xii, 196. Bibliographical note, index.
                    $16.95.)
            Edward Pessen, a prominent historian of nineteenth-century American urban elites, in The
                        Log Cabin Myth investigates the family backgrounds, marriages, and prepresidential career
                    patterns of this country's thirty-nine chief executives. Employing class categories
                    introduced by W. Lloyd Warner and his associates over forty years ago, he concludes that American
                    presidents came from economic and social backgrounds considerably more privileged than those of
                    upwards of 90 percent of their fellow citizens. The following is Pessen's scorecard: upper
                    upper class (
                        Washington
                    , Jefferson, 
                        Madison
                    , John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, William Henry Harrison, Tyler, Taylor, Benjamin Harrison, Theodore Roosevelt,
                    Taft, F#2 D. Roosevelt); between the upper and lower upper classes (Polk and Kennedy); lower upper
                    class (John Adams, 
                        Monroe
                    , Wilson); between the lower upper and upper middle classes (Pierce, Hayes, 
                        Cleveland
                    , Harding, Coolidge, Truman); upper middle class (
                  Jackson, Van
                Buren,
                    Buchanan, Grant, Arthur, McKinley, Hoover, Lyndon Johnson, Ford, Carter); middle class (
                        Lincoln
                    , Eisenhower, Reagan); lower middle class (Fillmore, Garfield, Nixon); and upper lower
                    class (Andrew Johnson).
            Pessen notes that this frequency distribution suggests "the slightly more plebian starting
                    points of latter-day presidents" (p. 72). He attributes this development "to the
                    slightly greater chances more available to persons born into the lower levels of the upper social clusters" (p. 72). The author underestimates the egalitarian trend
                    of his findings. Of the seven presidents since F#2 D. Roosevelt, two originated in the middle class
                    and one came from the lower middle class. These seven chief executives constitute 18 percent of the
                    thirty-nine who held that office; yet, the post-World War II leaders account for two thirds of the
                    presidents from  middle-class antecedents, one third of those
                    from lower-middle-class beginnings, and three of the seven among the thirty-nine born into families
                    of middle or lower social rank. Kennedy alone of the post-1945 presidents indisputably belongs in
                    Pessen's upper-class categories.
            As played by the author, presidential stratification is not a difficult game. He gathers information
                    mostly from biographies of the presidents (see "Bibliographical Note," pp.
                    186–89) and does not document the individual assignments. Despite superficial research,
                    sloppy methodology, and the possibility that other scholars might rearrange some of the class
                    designations, Pessen correctly contends that the majority of these figures came from advantaged
                    backgrounds. Indeed, he repetitively asserts that The Log Cabin Myth explodes the
                    pervasive misconception of scholars and the public that government leaders stemmed from humble or
                    middle-class roots. This claim properly belongs to the literary genre of dust jacket puffery. How
                    necessary is a book that tells historians what they already know? The book also lacks substantial
                    evidence that the public overwhelmingly misperceives presidential lineage.
            The second main theme in The Log Cabin Myth, that political parties select
                    presidential candidates for their sound (i.e., conservative) views, is as unexceptionable and banal
                    as the thesis that these nominees come from the upper strata. However, Pessen draws dubious
                    conclusions from his assumption about party nominations. He claims that men of wealth and high
                    social standing are nominated for the presidency because they are more likely to defend the
                    established order than are those from lower levels, whom the parties might otherwise prefer since
                    they would be more electable candidates as self-made men. Finally, Pessen declares that the choice
                    of well-born men signifies that "the people who rule are not the
                        people" (p. 183). In reality, there are plenty of potential candidates of humble
                    stock who are conservative. The fact is that for most voters the pedigrees of presidential nominees
                    do not seem important. Hence, it is doubtful that these candidates are unrepresentative of the will
                    of the electorate.
            The chief distinction of The Log Cabin Myth lies in its being slender in size and
                    thin in substance, yet inflated in its claim to originality and padded by repetitive biographical
                    detail. Its natural format would have been as a 
                        New York
                    
                    Times Magazine article instead of as a Yale University Press book.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Champaign
                  -
                            Urbana
                        
                Frederic Cople Jaher
         
         
         
            
               Ty Cobb. By Charles C. Alexander. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1984. Pp. 272. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $16.95.)
            One of the greatest, if not the greatest, players in baseball history was Ty Cobb, major league
                    outfielder from 1905 to 1928. A native of the red-clay country of northern 
                        Georgia
                     and son of a locally prominent educator, he moved into the world of sports before he
                    was twenty. During nearly all his career, he wore the uniform of the 
                        Detroit
                     Tigers and set innumerable records as a hitter and base stealer. Only recently have
                    some of them been broken or closely approached. Owing to shrewd investments, such as stocks in Coca
                    Cola and General Motors, more than to compensation from the Tigers (very modest by modern
                    standards), he retired as a multimillionaire. This long period to 1961 brought him more trouble than
                    happiness, as his unstable temperament alienated family and friends and detached him from the sport
                    he loved.
            Charles Alexander has produced a well-researched, well-written biography, quite superior to the usual
                    book about athletes. A skilled historian, he has gathered evidence wherever
                    available—from relevant manuscripts at the National Baseball Library at Cooperstown and
                    the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library, from interviews and a wide range of publications. But newspapers
                    provide most of his information, which is apparent in full descriptions, season by season, of
                    Cobb's sensational feats on the diamond. Though the author's literary style is
                    very good, this sort of narrative does become a little tedious and cluttered with detail.
                    Nonetheless, Alexander portrays a fascinating personality: ruthless, combative, intelligent, a
                    veritable perfectionist. Given to fights and controversies at the slightest provocation, Cobb had
                    few close associations, but his incredible prowess and never-fading color excited an enormous
                    popular interest. Here Alexander seeks to explain this social dimension by relating Cobb to early
                    twentieth-century America; and to the limited extent he succeeds, his volume will have a fairly
                    broad appeal. One has the feeling that he, or others consulting his work, could do still more.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Maurice Baxter
         
         
            
               Research: A Bibliography on Historical Organization Practices. Edited by
                    Frederick L. Rath, Jr., and Merrilyn Rogers O'Connell. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1984. Pp. xiii, 209. Appendix,
                    index. $15.95.)
            This is the sixth and last volume of the Bibliography on Historical Organization
                        Practices, published by the American Association  for
                    State and Local History. This concluding volume offers widely interdisciplinary coverage, with
                    sections devoted to history, archaeology, architecture, and technology and crafts.
            Like its predecessors, Research does not aim for comprehensive coverage but
                    provides "paths to comprehensive research" to lead the searcher systematically
                    into the literature. Each section includes basic reference books, lists of organizations and
                    periodicals, general works, guides to methodology and bibliographies, both under the general heading
                    and under topical subheadings. The entries are briefly annotated where the title is not
                    self-explanatory. Notes for each section provide subscription information and addresses for
                    periodicals and organizations.
            Practical arrangement of the material for maximum usefulness to its targeted audience has been the
                    guiding principle. Entries are repeated under several headings where appropriate. A particularly
                    useful feature is the inclusion of many pamphlets, technical bulletins, and government publications.
                    These elusive items are basic to many of the topics covered and are seldom included in general
                    bibliographies.
            This is a well-designed working tool that will be extremely useful to museum and preservation workers
                    embarking on any related research.
            
               Indiana University Libraries, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Nancy C. Cridland
         
         
            
               American Literature and Social Change: William Dean Howells to Arthur Miller. By
                    Michael Spindler. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1983. Pp. viii, 236. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $18.50.)
            Michael Spindler's book is offered as an interdisciplinary study, an exercise in what he
                    calls "the sociology of American literature" (p. 7). His concern, broadly
                    speaking, is with the interrelationships between American economic, social, and literary life in the
                    period roughly from Reconstruction to the 1950s, and he has selected seven writers for detailed
                    study: William Dean Howells, Frank Norris, Theodore Dreiser, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Sinclair Lewis,
                    John Dos Passos, and Arthur Miller. His method is to describe American social development (and thus,
                    for him, literary development) in terms of the Marxist formulation of base and superstructure. This
                    procedure conveniently yields two phases of American social and economic history, the first which
                    Spindler calls "The Production-Oriented Phase" and the second which he labels
                    "The Consumption-Oriented Phase." The former includes the works of Howells,
                    Norris, and Dreiser, the latter those of Dreiser (again), Fitzgerald, Lewis, Dos Passos, and Miller.
            
            Spindler is determined to show how the "ideological confusions and contradictions"
                    (p. 47) endemic to American social history have molded its literature, and his account of the
                    genesis of a literary work, therefore, is deterministic and reductive. For example, he says of
                    Norris and Dreiser that they "played down the significance of form and fashioned a
                    coarse-grained prose that corresponded well with the rough, coarse-grained texture of their subjects
                    … the bitter strikes and harsh conditions did not require the delicate nuances of
                    Jamesian prose but a new rhetoric suitable to the thrusting crudity and angularity of industrial
                    society" (p. 47). Now, the cynical reader might see all this as special pleading on behalf
                    of writers who are simply far less talented than Henry James. Where, indeed, given the fact that
                    "played down" suggests conscious choice, is the evidence that Norris and Dreiser
                    were capable of writing any other kind of prose? Of John Dos Passes, Spindler says: "he
                    realised that the conventional realist novel was inadequate to the portrayal of the texture of
                    modern social experience and to the rendering of a definite historical interpretation" (p.
                    200). But where, again, in the early part of his career, is there any evidence that Dos Passes could have written conventional realistic novels if he had wanted to? To say that
                    Dos Passos fashioned a new form of discontinuous narrative in the face of the complexity of modern
                    industrial experience might simply be to say that he had no gift for narrative. In fact, in the
                    later stages of his literary career Dos Passos did evince a talent, albeit a very limited one, for
                    the conventional novel, but these are works that Spindler probably finds
                    "ideologically" offensive.
            Spindler's is not a critical book, but it does not claim to be one. His readings, however,
                    are not as innovative as he thinks them to be (see p. 6). Far too often the sociological and
                    historical aspects of his book seem detachable components merely used to bolster conventional
                    observations; nowhere is this more apparent than in the introductory chapters to his two
                    "phases," entitled "Hardware" and "Software."
                    He is not, moreover, the most accurate of historians, especially of intellectual matters. He says,
                    for example, that, for the Puritans, "the decision Chosen or Damned was based on
                    performance in the never-ending struggle between good and evil" (p. 31), thus imputing to
                    them a doctrine of good works which is not evident in their writings.
            Despite these weaknesses, Spindler's book is not wholly without merit. On the whole, it is
                    clearly written, and the chapters on Dreiser's An American Tragedy and
                    Miller's Death of a Salesman can be especially recommended. But it is not
                    the ground-breaking contribution to the sociology of American literature that Spindler claims it to
                    be, and, in fact, on the evidence of the methodology used here, one wonders if there ever will be
                    one.
            
               University of 
                     Kent, Canterbury, England
                  
                Henry Claridge
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
