
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 82, Issue 2, pages 139-222. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:82+issue:2+year:1986&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Public Health and Sanitation in an Indiana Community: The Garbage Disposer and 
                        Jasper
                    
            
            Suellen Hoy∗
            
            On February 15, 1950, a banner headline on the front page of the 
                        Dubois County
                    
                    Daily Herald—"Garbage Man Gets Walking Papers in 
                        Jasper
                    "— announced the beginning of a startling and pioneering plan
                    undertaken by a small town in southwestern Indiana. The newspaper reported that on the previous
                    evening the city council of 
                        Jasper
                    , Indiana, had voted unanimously to enter into a contractual arrangement with the
                    General Electric Company "for the installation of its Disposall in any and all 
                        Jasper
                     homes" and to discontinue the public collection of garbage "on and
                    after August 1, 1950."1 This unique public health and sanitation
                    experiment was the community's solution to several problems that had threatened its sense
                    of order and well-being. Beginning in 1945 the state's stream pollution control board had
                    instructed the town to cease sewage disposal practices that were contributing to the pollution of
                    the Patoka River; two years later cholera broke out among garbage-fed hogs in
                    the vicinity of 
                        Jasper
                    ; and in 1949 a polio epidemic frightened families with children. In the end these
                    developments, combined with the availability of a modern but mundane household appliance and the
                    innovative efforts of a vigorous mayor and a persuasive 
                  
                     ∗ Suellen Hoy, assistant director of the 
                                North Carolina
                             Division of Archives and History, wishes to acknowledge financial assistance
                            from the American Historical Association through its Albert J. Beveridge Grant for Research
                            in American History. The author thanks Robert D. Bugher, American Public Works Association;
                            Jeffrey J. Crow and William S. Price, Jr., 
                                North Carolina
                             Division of Archives and History; and Walter Nugent, University of Notre Dame,
                            for their valuable assistance. She also appreciates the information provided by Victor
                            Bohnert, Jack T. Brandt, Jack Rumbach, and Herbert E. Thyen, who were interviewed at the 
                                Jasper
                             Public Library on June 26, 1984.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, February 15, 1950; City of 
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana, "Ordinance Number 356," February 14, 1950.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXII (June. 1986). © 1986. Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     newspaper editor, contributed to the banishment of the garbage
                    man and his unsavory can.
            
               
                        Jasper
                    , the county seat of 
                        Dubois County
                    , is situated on the Patoka River about 120 miles southwest of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 1950 it had a population of 6,800. The community was largely rural and was made up
                    of predominantly German-Catholic families. Although most arable land was under cultivation, the
                    major portion of 
                        Jasper
                    's income was derived from a concentration of small, corporately owned
                    woodworking factories. Thus, the percentage of families who depended entirely on agriculture for
                    their livelihood was small; a much larger number engaged in part-time farming and factory work. In
                    1950 
                        Jasper
                     residents owned most local factories, and over 90 percent owned their homes as well.
            The Catholic religion and German heritage had traditionally been the most important forces in forming
                    the values, attitudes, and habits of the people who lived in 
                        Jasper
                    . The range of kinship was wide, and family name often determined whether an individual
                    was an "insider" or not. Besides name residents of 
                        Jasper
                     frequently identified themselves by the parish church to which they belonged rather
                    than by what they did professionally or to whom they were married. While most men worked on farms or
                    in factories, most women were housewives. Those who were not solely housewives were usually engaged
                    in the work of the family farm or business or found employment as teachers, nurses, or
                        librarians.2
            
            In 
                        Jasper
                     "work" was more than an occupation. Through farming, keeping house,
                    gardening, clearing land, and other activities, people remained productive, gained self-esteem, and
                    earned the respect of their neighbors. Besides their reputation for hard work, 
                        Jasper
                     residents were known for their thrift, frugality, and independence. They were, for
                    example, fiercely committed to providing for their families; although they possessed a strong sense
                    of community, only in desperate circumstances did they call on civic or religious organizations to
                    assist them. They also prided themselves on their cleanliness. Not surprisingly, they saw
                    "the neatness of their church" not only as "a reflection of their
                    piety" but also as a mark of dedication to their religion and community.3
            
            
               
                  2 Juliet Anne Niehaus, "Ethnic Formation and Transformation: The
                        German-Catholics of 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 1838–1979" (Ph.D. dissertation, Graduate Faculty of
                        Political and Social Science, New School for Social Research, 1981), 29–31,
                        38–41. See also the 
                            Jasper
                         Centennial Corporation's "Official Historical Souvenir
                        Program," This, Our Town: 100th Anniversary of the Incorporation of 
                                Jasper
                            
                   (
                            Jasper
                        , Ind., 1966).
               
                  3 Niehaus, "Ethnic Formation and Transformation,"
                        15–16, 31.
            
            
            In many respects 
                        Jasper
                     was singular. In others, it was not. Like most Americans who had survived years of
                    wartime scarcity, 
                        Jasper
                    's population was in search of a "greater ease of living,"
                    particularly through goods and amenities that offered more cleanliness, convenience, and comfort.4 The garbage disposer, which became popular in the years following World War
                    II, appealed to these impulses. After years of debate the "simple, safe and
                    sanitary" disposer had won the approval of most public health officers, sanitary engineers,
                    and municipal officials for its ability to improve community sanitary practices and to relieve women
                    and their families of the unpleasant task of handling and storing putrescible food wastes.5
            
            In the 1920s and early 1930s several municipalities began grinding large solids into pulp,
                    discharging it into the sewers, and disposing of it at sewage plants.6 Morris M.
                    Cohn, a sanitary engineer in Schenectady, 
                        New York
                    , who edited Wastes Engineering, was the individual most convinced
                    that the results of these experiments with large solids held the solution to home waste disposal
                    problems. Working closely with engineers in General Electric's Schenectady laboratory, Cohn
                    helped them build a kitchen grinding machine which was "ready for test" in 1933.
                    Two years later the company began producing and marketing a primitive
                        "Disposall."7
            
            Throughout the late 1930s and early 1940s Cohn argued the benefits of what he and others were calling
                    "dual disposal."8 If sewage could be removed from homes by
                    modern plumbing, Cohn contended that shredded garbage which resembled sewage in character and
                    composition could also be eliminated through sewer lines. The garbage can, like the backhouse, would
                    then disappear.9
                    
                  
                     4 The reference to "greater ease of living" can be
                            found in "The House for Modern Living," Architectural
                            Forum, LXII (April, 1935), 275. For a general review of Americans' search for
                            a "better quality of life" during the postwar period, see Samuel P. Hays,
                            "From Conservation to Environmental Politics in the 
                                United States
                             Since World War II," Environmental Review, VI (Fall,
                            1982), 19–24.
                  
                     5 For a fuller discussion of the origins and national impact of the
                            garbage disposer, see Suellen Hoy, "The Garbage Disposer, the Public Health, and
                            the Good Life," Technology and Culture, XXVI (October, 1985),
                            758–784.
                  
                     6 In 1923 C. R. Fox and W. S. Davis conducted the first municipal
                            grinding experiment. From 1929 through 1935 similar experiments were initiated in
                            Schenectady, 
                        New York; Baltimore, Maryland
                     ; Durham, 
                        North
                                    Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri
                     ; and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. See Morris M. Cohn, "Recent Developments in Dual
                            Disposal," Sewage & Industrial Wastes, XXIII (January,
                            1951), 55; J. H. Powers, "The Disposall … Now in Military Service on
                            Land and Also at Sea," General Electric Review, XLVI (March,
                            1943), 175–77.
                  
                     7 Cohn, "Recent Developments in Dual Disposal,"
                            54–55.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 54.
               
                     But the idea of mixing sewage and garbage met with some
                    resistance, mostly from sanitary engineers and public works officials who feared that existing
                    sewers would be clogged or overloaded. Cohn demonstrated time and again that total sewage flow
                    increased only 1 to 2 percent when shredded garbage was added. Since most sewers and treatment
                    plants could handle such a nominal increase, his position was eventually accepted.10
            
            Disposers were not produced during World War II except under contract for the armed forces. In
                    manufacturing a larger disposal unit for the navy, General Electric improved and simplified the home
                    appliance. At the war's end the company had ready for sale a more efficient and less noisy
                        product.11 In 1948 the American Public Health Association endorsed dual
                    disposal and even suggested that the garbage can would "ultimately follow the
                    privy" and become an "anachronism."12
            
            In 
                        Jasper
                    , meanwhile, the citizenry were not unaware of the threat to the public health posed by
                    garbage. In an attempt to control the spread of disease from flies and rodents and to improve the
                    community's appearance, the city council had passed an ordinance in 1928 requiring
                    residents to keep garbage cans and containers "closed at all times with a tight
                    lid." In October, 1945, one month after becoming mayor, Herbert E. Thyen reminded the
                    community of the 1928 ordinance and explained that improperly kept garbage cans were "a
                    great contributing factor to the present rat nuisance." Since "more than half the
                    garbage cans" in 
                        Jasper
                     did not have covers, the mayor, who was the youngest in the city's history,
                    found himself confronted by an age-old municpal problem and perhaps his greatest challenge.13
            
            
               
                  9 Morris M. Cohn, "Eliminating Waste Food
                        Electrically—A Fact, Not a Fad," Plumbing and Heating
                        Journal, CXIX (September, 1948), 46.
               
                  10 Morris M. Cohn, Sewers for Growing America
                            (Valley Forge, Pa., 1966), 54; idem.,
                        "Kitchen Waste Grinders—In the Specification Stage… An
                        Editorial," Sewage Works Engineering and Municipal Sanitation, XX
                        (January, 1949), editorial page; "Dual Disposal of Garbage and Sewage Poses Problems
                        for Treatment Plants," Engineering News-Record, CXXXVI (March 28,
                        1946), 12; and "Dual Disposal of Garbage and Sewage," Water
                            & Sewage Works, XCIII (April, 1946), 157–58.
               
                  11 Powers, "The Disposall," 175–77; R. N.
                        Clark and Arthur Heifetz, "The Army Tries Garbage Disposal by Grinding," Public Works, LXXIV (March, 1943), 21, 38; "Thorough Redesign Job
                        Eliminates 61 Parts," Product Engineering, XII (November, 1941),
                        580–81.
               
                  12 "The Kitchen Garbage Grinder," American
                            Journal of Public Health, XXXVII (May, 1947), 574.
               
                  13
                        
                            Jasper
                        
                        Herald, October 5, 1945. Herbert E. Thyen became mayor in September, 1945,
                        upon the death of Mayor Charles Bartley. The local newspaper reported that Thyen was
                        "the youngest man in the history of the city to hold the office" and
                        "one of the youngest mayors in the state." 
                            Jasper
                        
                        Herald, September 7, 1945. Thyen attended 
                            St. Joseph
                         Grade School in 
                            Jasper
                         and later the 
                            Jasper
                         Academy, where he completed a two-year commercial program. He worked in a
            
            
            But uncovered garbage cans proved to be only part of a much larger environmental and health issue. In
                    December, 1945, the Indiana Stream Pollution Control Board ordered 
                        Jasper
                     to stop dumping raw sewage into the Patoka River. During a summer
                    dry spell downstream cities had complained that their waterway was filled with 
                        Jasper
                    's sewage. In response to this order the city council hired the 
                        Indianapolis
                     engineering firm of Couch and Kulin, Inc., to study the town's sewage
                    treatment needs. The firm recommended a million-gallon-per-day activated sludge plant and a new
                    system of main, relief, and lateral sewers to handle loads beyond the capacity of the existing
                    system. This solution was approved by the state board of health and the stream pollution control
                    board in September, 1948.14
            
            While the sewage treatment project was under consideration, another dimension of 
                        Jasper
                    's problem with waste disposal revealed itself. In the late summer of 1947 an
                    epidemic of cholera swept through several hog pens outside the city, and the cause of the outbreak
                    was traced to 
                        Jasper
                    's garbage. During the first half of the twentieth century the feeding of
                    garbage to swine was a common and acceptable practice for medium- and small-sized cities surrounded
                    by isolated farms. In 
                        Jasper
                     local farmers under contract with the city had for years collected the garbage for
                    their hogs several times during each week. Following the cholera outbreak, however, farmers were
                    less willing to enter an agreement unless they were paid for possible losses. The mayor and city
                    council found the farmer's demands extravagant, and the mayor resolved to seek a new
                    solution to 
                        Jasper
                    's garbage problem.15
            
            Thyen has not forgotten how 
                        Jasper
                    's experiment—the "
                        Jasper
                     Plan," as it came to be called—began. He remembers that he was
                    "aggravated with the farmers" not only for their excessive demands but also for
                    the unreliable way in which they had been 
                  local grocery store and in several banks while continuing his education through night and
                            correspondence courses. In 1935 he went to work at the 
                                Jasper
                             Wood Products Company. He later served as mayor while continuing to work for
                            this company. In 1956 he resigned as assistant manager of 
                                Jasper
                             Wood Products and began full-time employment as corporate secretary with what
                            is now Kimball International (formerly 
                                Jasper
                             Corporation). H. E. Thyen to the author, September 11, 1984.
                  
                     14 L. I. Couch and H. J. Kulin, "Municipal Garbage Disposal
                            by Household Grinders at 
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana," Sewage and Industrial Wastes, XXII
                            (September, 1950), 1138–46.
                  
                     15 Costs for the contractors' services had risen from
                            $1,300 in 1942 to $6,000 in 1948. "Garbage Disposal Units for
                            City Wide Use," American Builder, LXXII (April, 1950), 101. See
                            also 
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, December 29, 1948; and 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, August 4, 1974.
               
                     providing the garbage collection service. He recalls, too, that
                    he had friends in downstream Winsome, Indiana, who complained to him about the polluted condition of
                    the Patoka River when it reached them. Thyen, who had grown up in 
                        Jasper
                     and was proud of the community, believed his town was "too good" to
                    engage in such an "unfair practice."16
            
            Thyen considered himself an "original thinker" and believed that
                    "necessity is the mother of invention."17 Thus it was while
                    shopping one day with his wife in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, Thyen took particular notice of a window display at Sears. On exhibit was a
                    Hotpoint garbage disposal unit that offered an eye-catching promise: "Say Good-bye to Your
                    Garbage Can." He recollects that the thought immediately occurred to him that this
                    appliance could be the answer to 
                        Jasper
                    's garbage problem; in fact, he says that he knew "it was a
                    natural" if the unit would live up to its promise and the people of 
                        Jasper
                     would accept it. A week after seeing Sears's display Thyen bought a Hotpoint
                    disposer and had it installed for $125. He conducted his own experiments by throwing
                    "everything down it" and was not disappointed. Indeed he remembers that he was
                    "real positive" and "confident" that he had found the solution
                    he had been seeking.18
            
            Before discussing his novel idea in public Thyen went "into a huddle … with his
                    city council" and began to examine the feasibility of "installing a garbage
                    disposal unit in every kitchen sink in the city" at public expense.19
                    They found out from professional engineering and health organizations that no other city in the 
                        United States
                     had ever attempted to implement a plan similar to that under consideration in 
                        Jasper
                    . Thyen and his council also learned the specific benefits and possible complications of
                    "dual disposal" as well as the advances made by manufacturers of disposal units
                    during the past decade. Encouraged by these discoveries the mayor and city council asked the
                    engineering firm of Couch and Kulin, already in their employ, to investigate alternative disposal
                    methods—individual kitchen disposers, central grinding station, and sanitary
                    landfill—and to prepare cost data for each of them.20
            
            
               
                  16 Victor Bohnert, Jack T. Brant, Jack Rumbach, and Herbert E. Thyen,
                        interview with author, 
                            Jasper
                        , Indiana, June 26, 1984; cited hereafter as interview with Thyen et
                            al.
               
               
                  17
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Tribune, August 4, 1974.
               
                  18 Interview with Thyen et al.
               
               
                  19
                        
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, December 29, 1948.
               
                  20 Couch and Kulin, "Municipal Garbage Disposal," 1139;
                        interview with Thyen et al. During this interview Thyen also mentioned having
                        visited 
                     Dearborn, Michigan
                  , where houses with disposers were built for some
                        employees of the Ford Motor Company.
            
            
            
               MAYOR HERBERT E. THYEN, THE INITIATOR OF THE JASPER PLAN
               
               Courtesy of General Electric.
            
            There was little doubt that Thyen favored adoption of the garbage disposer. He wanted, however, to be
                    certain that Jasper's kitchen drains, sewers, and new treatment plant could handle the
                    ground garbage and that the cost of installing the device would not be exorbitant. Albert T.
                    Rumbach, editor of the 
                        Dubois County
                    
                    Daily Herald, shared Thyen's interests and concerns. Following the
                    mayor's early discussion of the plan with the city council, a Rumbach editorial hailed the
                    idea as "a boon to city sanitation." He contended that the disposer would remove
                    "health hazards" such as open garbage pails from which "flies and rats
                    and other vermin and scavengers often carry disease germs resulting in epidemics of various kinds,
                    from poliomyelitis to common colds." Rumbach argued that the plan was "worthy of
                    the best efforts of sanitary engineers" and deserved the community's
                    "most serious consideration." He also insisted that the "apparent
                    obstacles" could be overcome and that the results would signal "the beginning of a
                    great national movement." In conclusion he applauded Thyen's efforts as
                    "the originator of the idea" and stated that he deserved "the widest
                        acclaim."21
            
            Rumbach's advocacy of improved sanitation can be traced directly to his son's
                    struggle against polio. As county chairman of the March of Dimes and as editor of the Daily Herald, he regularly campaigned against polluted waters and garbage-strewn alleys
                    and streets. Born to German immigrants on a farm 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, December 29, 1948.
               
                    
                    
                  ALBERT T. RUMBACH (LEFT), EDITOR OF
                            THE DUBOIS COUNTY
                            DAILY HERALD
                     
                            AND A LEADING PROPONENT OF THE JASPER PLAN, READS AN EDITORIAL TO JERRY SCHNEIDER, HEAD OF THE JASPER JUNIOR CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.
                  Courtesy of General Electric.
                outside 
                        Jasper
                     in 1895, he taught school as a young adult and worked for a newspaper in 
                        Chicago
                     before entering Marquette University, where he earned a degree in journalism. In 1919
                    he acquired an interest in the 
                        Jasper
                     Herald Company and became editor of its weekly newspaper (it became a daily in
                        1946).22 Serving in that position until his death in 1956, Rumbach
                    habitually promoted projects and programs that he considered beneficial to the community. From
                    December, 1948, until the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan—a term that he coined—was implemented, Rumbach hammered
                    together a local network of support through his "Hark the Herald" column.23
            
            With enthusiastic and sustained endorsements from the local press, it is perhaps not surprising that
                    the mayor and city council decided in favor of the home disposal unit even after reviewing estimates
                    that indicated the device was slightly more costly than other alternatives. Couch and
                    Kulin's final estimates on the disposer's total annual cost included the original
                    investment and interest on the investment as well as depreciation, maintenance, and operation. The
                    engineering firm's projections were: $11,805, home grinders (66 cents per family
                    per month); 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Jasper
                             Centennial Corporation, This, Our Town, 119,
                            140–41.
                  
                     23 Sylvia Wright, "No More Garbage in This Town,"
                                McCall's, LXXVII (August, 1950), 87.
               
                     $11,742, central grinding station (65 cents per
                    family per month); and $10,930, sanitary landfill (61 cents per family per month). In
                    selecting the garbage disposer over the grinding station and the sanitary landfill, the mayor once
                    again emphasized the household appliance's health and aesthetic benefits.24
            
            By the time 
                        Jasper
                     officials had decided to adopt the disposer, plans had been approved for the new sewage
                    treatment plant, but ground had not yet been broken. It was, therefore, relatively simple for the
                    consulting engineers to include the capability, as the mayor asked, of handling all ground garbage
                    from the city's homes. They added 12,000 square feet of sludge-drying beds, two sludge
                    digestion tanks, and an aeration unit to the original design. State authorities gave their approval
                    to the alterations on March 10, 1949, and in May work began.25
            
            The mayor and the city council initially intended to finance the purchase and installation of garbage
                    disposers through self-liquidating revenue bonds. In this way 
                        Jasper
                     residents would simply apply for a unit and be charged a rental fee by the council. The
                    bonds would subsequently be retired by these rental charges. With this objective in mind, Thyen and
                    City Attorney Arthur Nordhoff secured the assistance of two fellow townsmen, State Senator Leo
                    Stemle and State Representative Frank Seng, as well as the staff of the state board of health in
                    their attempt to obtain the necessary enabling authority from the state legislature.26
            
            This well-orchestrated effort bore fruit. On March 7, 1949, the Indiana General Assembly unanimously
                    passed a bill which empowered any municipality with an adequate sewage treatment plant "to
                    acquire, install, equip, own, operate and maintain … a garbage disposal system consisting
                    of garbage grinders to be installed in private residences, business places or any other building
                    within or without the city or town, with the consent of the owners."27
                    It also authorized municipalities to issue bonds to pay for purchasing and installing the disposers
                    in private homes, to set rates and charges for the equipment, and to cease collecting and disposing
                    of garbage by other means.28 Cohn himself approved. In an editorial in Sewage Works Engineering headed 
                  
                     24 Cost estimates appear in a chart in Couch and Kulin,
                            "Municipal Garbage Disposal," 1139.
                  
                            25
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     26
                            
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, February 2, 7, 1949; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 2, 1949; Yearbook of the State of Indiana for
                                the Year 1949 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), 803.
                  
                     27 Indiana, Laws (1949), 221.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 221–29.
               
                    
                    
                  GENERAL ELECTRIC ENGINEER GORDON RONEY (BOTTOM) SUPERVISES THE
                                INSTALLATION OF ONE OF HIS COMPANY'S GARBAGE DISPOSERS.
                  Courtesy of General Electric.
                "Home Grinders Become a Public Utility," he accorded to 
                        Jasper
                     and the state of Indiana "the applause of the sanitary engineering profession
                    for … approving a new health and comfort achievement and setting up sound fiscal
                    practices for making this dual disposal process of a self-liquidating utility."29 The American Journal of Public Health also applauded this
                    "courageous and imaginative step … to advance … scientific
                        sanitation."30
            
            With the legal authority in place the city set the bidding date for December 6, 1949, and asked
                    engineers Couch and Kulin to prepare specifications and proposal forms. When drafting the
                    specifications, the engineers indicated some of the difficulties that would be encountered in
                    installing the disposal units. They had previously surveyed potential users (about fourteen hundred)
                    and discovered that approximately 60 percent of the city's sinks had drain openings of less
                    than three and one-half inches. These openings would have to be widened at the expense and risk of
                    whomever contracted to provide 
                        Jasper
                    's homes with disposers. It would not be an easy task since four out of five
                    sinks were porcelain enamel cast-iron; most of the others were either 
                  
                     29 Morris M. Cohn, "Home Grinders Become a Public
                            Utility," Sewage Works Engineering and Municipal Sanitation, XX
                            (May, 1949), editorial page.
                  
                     30 "Garbage Grinders—A Public Utility,"
                                American Journal of Public Health, XXXIX (September, 1949),
                        1180.
               
                     porcelain enamel steel, vitreous china, or stainless steel. The
                    engineers' specifications also informed interested parties that they would be required to
                    demonstrate how their appliances operated at the bidding.31
            
            About eighteen manufacturers asked for the proposal packets when they became available, but only six
                    actually submitted bids. From these bidders the city selected the General Electric Company, which
                    agreed to sell and install its device for $75 instead of the normal unit price of
                    $125. The city then notified residents that following August 1, 1950, garbage collection
                    by private scavengers under municipal contract would end. The electric "Disposall"
                    would subsequently provide the service.32
            
            Under the terms of the agreement with General Electric the installation of disposers was not
                    scheduled to begin until 700 households had applied for the service. The city administration had
                    previously decided that it would not finance this public improvement through revenue bonds but would
                    require householders to buy disposers. According to an informal survey by the mayor most 
                        Jasper
                     residents believed that the issuance of bonds was unnecessary if low-interest loans
                    were available so that individual units could be bought on installment. The 
                        Dubois County
                     State Bank and German American Bank agreed immediately to help finance such purchases
                    for "as little as $1.00 a month."33
            
            Following these assurances Thyen asked that at least half of the homeowners file applications with
                    the Board of Public Works and Safety signifying their intention to install disposers. They were also
                    requested to make a deposit of $2.00 on the cost of the unit and to pay the remainder
                    prior to installation. The city, the mayor explained, would place the money collected into a trust
                    fund from which it would pay General Electric for its work as it progressed. In this way 
                        Jasper
                     would incur no financial obligations.34
            
            Once these procedures had been established the mayor and city council initiated a vigorous campaign
                    to persuade home-owners 
                  
                     31 B. A. Poole and G. K. Erganian, "Public Health Benefits
                            from the Disposal of Garbage in Sewers," American Journal of Public
                                Health, XLI (September, 1951), 1108; L. I. Couch, "A Kitchen Grinder in
                            Every Home," American City, LXV (May, 1950), 114; and Couch and
                            Kulin, "Municipal Garbage Disposal," 1142–43.
                  
                     32 Couch and Kulin, "Municipal Garbage Disposal,"
                            1142–43. General Electric agreed to furnish disposers at a unit price of
                            $36.69 each; it would furnish and install units at a cost of $74.17
                            per disposer, including the water-flow interlock device.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, December 14, 1949; "Garbage Disposal Units for City
                            Wide Use," 264.
                  
                     34 Interview with Thyen et al.; Couch and Kulin,
                            "Municipal Garbage Disposal," 1140–41; Poole and Erganian,
                            "Public Health Benefits," 1108.
               
                    
                    
                  A GARBAGE DISPOSER DISPLAY IN THE JASPER CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
                  
                  Courtesy of General Electric.
                to make application for the disposer so that Jasper would be "on the way to
                    taking garbage trucks off its streets."35 No one invested more time and
                    energy in this effort than the mayor. He did so because he thought the disposer was "a good
                    thing" and that Jasper was on the verge of "doing something which the majority of
                    cities … [would] be doing in 10 to 15 years."36 Eager
                    "to sell the plan to the people," Thyen appeared regularly on radio programs that
                    would allow listeners to call in questions and comments, and he addressed the meetings of every
                    civic and religious organization that would give him time to explain the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan. Following these gatherings he frequently visited the homes of individuals who had
                    seemed strongly opposed to the plan in an attempt to explain the appliance's benefits and
                    assuage their fears. These individuals were usually apprehensive about how they would pay for the
                    unit or how they would operate it once it was installed. Thyen had little difficulty in handling
                    their concerns because, as he recently recalled, "I was not only sure of myself; I had all
                    the answers."37
            
            
               
                  35
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, March 12, 1949.
               
                  36
                        
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, March 12, 1949.
               
                  37 Interview with Thyen et al.;
                        
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, January 4, 1950; General Electric, Monogram:
                            Garbage Is Illegal in 
                                Jasper
                            
                   (n.p., 1950), 4–5. The latter is a promotional pamphlet; it
                        gives a brief description of the experiment and includes numerous photographs illustrating the
                        communal nature of the project.
            
            
            Rumbach and the Daily Herald became the mayor's strongest allies in this
                    crusade. In editorial after editorial Rumbach addressed the community's waste disposal
                    concerns. For example, in one "Hark the Herald" column, he asked (and answered):
                    "Just what can the appliance digest in the line of waste material?"38 In another, he inquired: "Is the operation of a Disposall
                        expensive?"39 He also reviewed the history of modern sewage
                    disposal in the 
                        United States
                     and explained how sewer pipe is "helped by the garbage device."40 And in terms that could be understood by nearly all his readers, he argued
                    that the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan and the efforts to ensure its adoption were not "regimentation"
                    but rather "a mass movement of an intelligent, enlightened community, toward a better way
                    of life."41
            
            While admitting that there were "some dissenters" Rumbach maintained that
                    "no compulsion was involved" in the efforts to implement the plan. No one was
                    being "forced to purchase and install the device," he said; an individual was
                    "free to stick with the old way, unless his neighbors objected too much to the maintenance
                    of a nuisance in the neighborhood." Comparing "a citizenry that is cooperative in
                    everything that makes for better living" to one that "insists on living in the
                    past," Rumbach contended that the attitude of the latter was "not the spirit of
                    his community."42 While Thyen must certainly have agreed, he later
                    described 
                        Jasper
                    's "custom" somewhat differently. He stated that he always
                    believed that "if 95 percent of the people wanted something," it was his
                    "job to make the other 5 percent do it."43 And Rumbach was
                    willing to use the pages of the Daily Herald to get the job done.
            In an early 1950 column the editor encouraged homeowners to "Be One of the 400"
                    participating in "this sanitary pioneering project" and contributing to
                    "the health and welfare of the entire community." He reported that there was
                    "hardly a block in 
                        Jasper
                     in which one or more citizens" had not "signed up" and that
                    "some blocks" were cooperating "one-hundred per cent."44 Besides printing regularly the names of individuals who had applied 
                  
                     38
                            
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, February 6, 1950.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., February 7, 1950.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., February 2, 3, 1950.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., December 9, 1949.
                  
                            42
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            43
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., January 19, 1950. There was a large map of 
                                Jasper
                             in the city's administrative office on which pins were inserted to
                            show the location of houses for which disposal units had been ordered or in which they were
                            already installed. Ibid., January 11, 1950.
               
                     for a disposer, almost every issue of the newspaper contained
                    testimonials from members of the health community. For example, 
                        Jasper
                    's city health officer, Lee Salb, observed that the disposal plan would make
                    the city "a much more beautiful city in which to live";45
                    State Health Commissioner L. E. Burney, for his part, commended 
                        Jasper
                     for its innovative spirit and noted that "the reduction of flies and
                    rats" would be "the chief benefit from the public health standpoint";46 and B. A. Poole, secretary of the Indiana Stream Pollution Control Board,
                    noted that "people all over the country are interested in the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan for garbage disposal" because they "realize the tremendous
                    improvement in sanitation that will result" and are "anxious to benefit from the
                    knowledge that will be gained."47
            
            Rumbach and his son Jack were daily reminders of the public health aspects of the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan. Most local residents knew that years before Jack had been left crippled following
                    a serious bout with polio and that since that time the senior Rumbach had become a fierce advocate
                    of a clean and healthy community as well as an enthusiastic and faithful March of Dimes leader in
                    the state. If some members of the community were unaware of these facts or had forgotten them, the
                    summer of 1949 placed them center stage once again. For during those summer months the state of
                    Indiana and the nation experienced one of the worst polio epidemics since 1916.48
            
            In late May the Daily Herald reprinted suggestions offered by Basil
                    O'Connor, president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, on how to guard
                    against polio. Besides warning of "over-fatigue" and "sudden
                    chilling," he encouraged the country's young people to "avoid swimming in
                    polluted water"; and he reminded their elders to "keep food and garbage tightly
                    covered and safe from flies."49 Although prescriptions such as these
                    had been issued on many previous occasions, they had special relevance in 
                        Jasper
                     at a time when a sewage treatment plant was under construction in an attempt to clean
                    up the polluted waters of the Patoka River and when a plan to install garbage
                    disposers in every home was the most discussed civic issue.
            By July and August 
                        Jasper
                     felt particularly threatened by polio as the number of cases in the state continued to
                    rise (141 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., December 17, 1949.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., December 20, 1949.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., December 21, 1949.
                  
                     48 Wright, "No More Garbage in This Town," 87; Yearbook of the State of Indiana for the Year 1950 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951), 898.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Dubois County
                             Daily Herald, May 28, 1949.
               
                     cases since January). In a "Hark the Herald"
                    column on July 18, 1949, Rumbach urged the city to take every precaution against the onslaught. He
                    even suggested following the example of those cities that had begun "spraying breeding
                    places of flies and mosquitoes with DDT…. as a preventative measure."50 And four days later in his front-page column he summarized the Indiana Polio
                    Committee's beliefs "concerning swimming pools and flies in connection with the
                    spread of poliomyelitis."51
            
            Since 
                        Jasper
                     citizens were in the process of deciding whether or not to install disposal units in
                    their kitchens, they were especially eager to learn the relationship of flies to polio infection.
                    Rumbach told them that "flies can transmit poliomyelitis," and he called upon the
                    studied opinions of various state boards of health, the 
                        United States
                     Public Health Service, and the Medical Advisory Committee of the National Foundation
                    for Infantile Paralysis to support his conviction. He argued logically that this fact did
                    "not exclude other means of transmission" nor did it indicate how important fly
                    transmission was when compared to other possible carriers. But, as a safety measure, he encouraged
                    householders not only to maintain "absolute cleanliness of garbage cans and disposal
                    areas" but also to keep "yards clean and free of refuse" and
                    "privies … sanitary and fly proof."52
            
            On August 4, 1949, 
                        Dubois County
                     publicly reported its first polio victim, a nine-year-old girl who lived in 
                        Jasper
                    . On that same day the city's health officer and the mayor met to discuss
                    spraying the community with DDT. What they had hoped to prevent had occurred, and they were fearful.
                    While health officer Salb did not "advise the postponement of public gatherings or the
                    closing of the swimming pool, movie theaters, and other places of entertainment," he urged
                    parents to see that their children did not become "overly tired and overheated"
                    and encouraged city officials to begin spraying 
                        Jasper
                     with DDT.53
            
            Approximately one week following this incident the city received ten 53-gallon drums of DDT from the
                    Sherwin-Williams Company in 
                        Evansville
                    . Ruxer Brothers, a local firm, donated the use of a tractor and spraying equipment, and
                    employees of the street department carried out the work. As a kind of bonus the Sherwin-Williams
                    Company contributed "enough DDT for [the] spraying of individual premises" to all
                    who requested it.54
                    
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., July 18, 1949.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., July 22, 1949.
                  
                            52
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., August 4, 1949.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., August 10, 17, 1949.
               
                     Since the Daily Herald's editor and
                    the city's health official had recommended DDT's use, particularly around garbage
                    cans, it is assumed that many homeowners accepted the Sherwin-Williams offer. In a column entitled
                    "An Ounce of Polio Prevention," Rumbach complimented the mayor and city council
                    for their "promptness" despite the fact that no funds had been set aside for such
                    an emergency.55
            
            By late summer the nation's polio epidemic had subsided. But the 
                        United States
                     Public Health Service reported that, with a total of 17,323 new cases since January 1,
                    the year had been the most difficult since "the extensive and disastrous epidemic of the
                    summer of 1916."56 With the cause still unknown most health officials
                    and sanitary engineers continued to see polio as a "filth disease." In an
                    editorial in Sewage Works Engineering and Municipal Sanitation that was reprinted
                    in the Daily Herald, Morris Cohn explained that if current research findings were
                    correct in concluding that "the virus is carried by polluted waters and spread by the
                    fly," local communities must "prevent pollution and stamp out the fly."
                    Conceding that "the fly is not the only means of transmission of polio," he
                    nevertheless concluded that "the elimination of the garbage can" should
                    "aid in lowering the incidence of the disease."57
            
            In A History of Poliomyelitis John R. Paul, a member of the Yale Poliomyelitis
                    Study Unit, shows that following the 1916 epidemic most public health officials came to believe in
                    the efficacy of "cooperative sanitation" at the local level.58
                    And once the polio virus was found easily and regularly in the feces of its victims, the associated
                    theory that the disease was a waterborne one became prevalent.59 Thus, it is not
                    surprising that communities with inadequate sewage treatment facilities became increasingly
                    concerned about their safety.
            
               
                  55
                        Ibid., August 11, 1949. Several local organizations made donations to the city
                        treasury to assist in this emergency. The 
                            Jasper
                         Manufacturers Association and the Knights of 
                            Columbus
                        , for example, gave $200 and $500 respectively. Ibid., August 16, 1949.
               
                  56
                        
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, August 24, 1949; John R. Paul, A History of
                            Poliomyelitis (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1971), 145. In Indiana during the same period 500 new cases had been
                        recorded. At the end of the year 1,147 cases (old and new) were reported. The highest year in
                        the previous decade was 1940 with 682 cases. 
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, August 22, 1949; Yearbook, 1950, 902.
               
                  57 Morris M. Cohn, "The Vicious Virus," Sewage Works Engineering and Municipal Sanitation, XVII (March, 1946), editorial page.
                        This piece was reprinted in the 
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, November 3, 1949.
               
                  58 M Paul, History of Poliomyelitis, 157.
               
                  59
                        Ibid., 282—87. Polio is "a common, contagious, epidemic
                        viral infection, not wholly confined to infants but also affecting children, adolescents, and
                        occasionally young adults." Ibid., 1.
            
            
            The notion that the fly transmitted the polio virus was also a commonly held impression since it
                    would explain the disease's "striking summer incidence in temperate
                        climates."60 It seemed logical, therefore, to recommend fly control
                    as a preventive measure. Because DDT had had "almost miraculous results" in the
                    mosquito-infested malarious areas of the South Pacific during World War II, it also seemed
                    reasonable to think that insect pests could be controlled by small doses of this powerful
                        chemical.61 Following several experiments with DDT the Public Health Service
                    conclusively demonstrated the ineffectiveness of the chemical in controlling flies and checking
                    epidemics in 1953. Yet, until a cure for polio was discovered, investigators continued to be
                    intrigued by the possible involvement of flies in the disease's transmission.62
            
            It was in this context that Jasper's local organizations, both civic and religious, passed
                    resolutions encouraging each citizen "to cooperate fully and immediately" with the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan since it would "eliminate the largest source of disease
                    carriers." These resolutions also emphasized the disposer's economic benefits
                    "over … the present system of waste collection" and testified to the
                    appliance's "safety, convenience, and sanitation."63
                    Individuals who still had doubts about the disposer visited the city's administrative
                    offices during a full week in early January, 1950, to see the device in operation and have their
                    questions answered by a General Electric representative. At the same time they read personal
                    testimonials, mostly from housewives who were "100% satisfied," in the Daily
                        Herald.64
            
            On February 14, 1950, with over 800 orders on file, the city council gave the "garbage men
                    … walking papers," asked General 
                  
                     60
                            lbid., 291.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 293–94.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 295—99.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, January 11, 1950. It reports that the Daughters of Isabella
                            endorsed the food waste disposal plan at its evening meeting on January 9. Other
                            organizations that passed similar resolutions were: VFW Auxiliary; Kappa Kappa Kappa
                            Sorority; Post 147 of the American Legion; Jaycees; and Knights of 
                                Columbus
                            .
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., January 6, 1950. Mrs. Ray Tucker of New 
                                Albany
                             Road described her complete satisfaction and that of her neighbors. General
                            Electric frequently incorporated endorsements by Jasper residents in its disposer
                            advertisements. See, for example, the 
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, June 29, 1950, where five women reported that they would
                            "never be without one again." Thyen recalled that his "best
                            backers were women." He said that when he spoke to women's groups he would
                            always deliver his "key punch line": "Helen, wouldn't
                            you feel a lot better to spend about a dollar or two a month and not have to ask your
                            husband to take the garbage out anymore." Thyen insisted that these women went home
                            with this message and that their husbands became immediate supporters of the 
                                Jasper
                             Plan. Interview with Thyen et al.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  SIGNATURES are GATHERED at the KNIGHTS of COLUMBUS CLUBROOM for a PETITION ASKING the CITY COUNCIL to OUTLAW GARBAGE COLLECTION.
                  Courtesy of General Electric.
                Electric to begin its work, and set August 1 as the date on which the collection of
                    garbage by the city would end.65 A month later the mayor and officials from
                    General Electric signed a formal contract, and four plumbing and two electrical teams began
                    installing the "Disposall" in the sinks of most 
                        Jasper
                     kitchens.66 Gordon H. Roney, commercial engineer for General
                    Electric and developer of an effective sink-boring tool, supervised the project. He reported that
                    the numerous instances of amateur or defective wiring proved the major problem. But, by the end of
                    October, 1950, nearly 800 disposers had been installed in 
                        Jasper
                    , a community of approximately 1,200 homes of which 90 percent were connected to
                    municipal sewers.67
            
            Both the 
                        United States
                     Public Health Service and the Indiana State Board of Health were eager to examine
                    "the effects of these installations on the environmental sanitation" of 
                        Jasper
                    
                    
                  
                     65 Dubois County Daily Herald, February 15, 1950.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., March 16, 1950; "Garbage Disposal Units for City Wide
                            Use," 266; General Electric, Monogram, 4.
                  
                     67 Poole and Erganian, "Public Health Benefits,"
                            1109. By October, 1951, over 900 household garbage grinders were in use, "serving
                            75% of the community's population." "
                                Jasper
                            , Ind., Measures Its Garbage-Grinder Sanitation Progress," American City, LXVIII (February, 1953), 108; 
                                Dubois County
                            
                            Daily Herald, April 14, 1950; and August Eckel, "Installing 1,300
                            Food Waste Disposers," Electrical Construction and Maintenance,
                            
                                IL
                             (November, 1950), 58—60.
               
                     and they conducted an investigation from March, 1950, to
                    October, 1951.68 No doubt to everyone's relief, they found that the
                    disposers had caused "no noticeable per capita increase in residential water
                    consumption," and that ground garbage created "no deleterious effect on the
                        sewers."69 They also determined that the sewage treatment plant had
                    experienced no difficulty in treating the effluent despite the fact that the raw sewage was stronger
                    in suspended solids and demanded more biochemical oxygen.70
            
            The investigators also learned that Jasper enjoyed a "lower average number of flies per
                    grill count" than the city used as a basis of comparison (
                        Huntingburg
                    , about seven miles away). This factor, they concluded, resulted directly from 
                        Jasper
                    's unique way of disposing of its garbage.71 The local
                    dump, however, remained infested with flies and rodents since it continued to receive rubbish
                    collected by the city and garbage deposited by homeowners and merchants who did not own disposers.
                    Although city administrators did not deny the problem, they explained that it would disappear once
                    disposers became almost universal and the ordinance was rigidly enforced.72
            
            The national response to the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan was cautious despite local and state approval.73 The
                    engineering community in particular noticed certain elements in 
                        Jasper
                    's situation which were scarcely present everywhere: utilities were publicly
                    owned; the economy was stable and diverse; the community was middle-class and home-owning; no public
                    funds had been invested in collection trucks and equipment since private scavengers had removed
                    garbage prior to the cholera outbreak; and 
                        Jasper
                     had constructed a sewage treatment plant suited precisely to its needs.74
            
            
               
                  68 Walter G. Belter, George K. Erganian, and Ralph C. Graber, Effects of Community-Wide Installation of Household Garbage-Grinders on Environmental
                            Sanitation,
                        
                            United States
                         Public Health Service Publication Series, no. 224 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1952), v. Belter and Erganian were sanitary engineers on the staff of the
                        Indiana State Board of Health, and Graber was a senior sanitary engineer at the 
                            United States
                         Public Health Service.
               
                  69
                        Ibid., 34.
               
                  70
                        Ibid., 34—35.
               
                  71
                        Ibid., 36.
               
                  72
                        Ibid. See also Poole and Erganian, "Public Health Benefits,"
                        1110.
               
                  73 Frank D. Wraight, "Community-Wide Installation of Household
                        Garbage Grinders a Success at 
                            Jasper
                        , Indiana" (Paper delivered at the Local Government Conference on Refuse
                        Disposal Methods, 
                     Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
                  , April 22—23, 1954,
                        in Garbage Grinders File (American Public Works Association, 
                     Chicago, Illinois
                  ).
                        Wraight was the chief of the Sewage Disposal Section of the Indiana State Board of Health.
               
                  74
                        Ibid. See also 
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, June 12, 1950. The plant was completed in June at a cost of
                        approximately $400,000.
            
            
            
               PLUMBER ED SCHROEDER PREPARES FOR A DAY'S WORK.
               Courtesy of General Electric.
            
            But 
                        Jasper
                    , along with General Electric, was a pioneer and can be credited with initiating and
                    successfully completing an experiment that subsequently provided a model for many American homes and
                        cities.75 Although the garbage disposer never became a standard home
                    appliance and was never listed among the "glamour products" for the
                    "modern living kitchen" of the 1960s, it did become a "must" for
                    the "complete kitchen" of postwar America and it reached a level of consumption in
                    the 1960s that few would have imagined two decades earlier.76 And in 
                        Jasper
                    , where the population has nearly doubled in the past thirty 
                  
                     75 Several older and larger northeastern cities (e.g.,
                                    
                        New York, Boston
                     , and 
                                Philadelphia
                            ) forbade installation of disposers because they feared the consequences of an
                            increased load on their sewer systems. But for the greater part of the nation the consumer
                            could make a choice. And in some cities (e.g., 
                        Detroit, Denver
                     , and many 
                                California
                             municipalities) food waste disposers were required in all new residences. For a
                            fuller discussion of the impact of the disposer on other American cities, see Hoy,
                            "The Garbage Disposer, the Public Health, and the Good Life."
                  
                     76 The "complete kitchen" was sometimes referred to
                            as the "packaged kitchen" or the "unit kitchen." Helen
                            E. McCullough, "The Kitchen of Tomorrow," Journal of Home
                                Economics, XXXVII (January, 1945), 8—10. See also
                            "She'll Buy This Dream!" Domestic Engineering,
                            CLXXXI (February, 1953), 106—107; "Mrs. Smith (82 of 'em) Goes
                            to 
                                Washington
                            ," ibid., CXCII (November, 1958), 110—12;
                            and "80,000 Tell What They Want in Home Improvements…," ibid., CXCIII (May, 1959), 123.
               
                     years, almost every kitchen contains a disposer. As Thyen
                    recently noted, "You couldn't sell a house without one!"77
            
            The city of 
                        Jasper
                     has taken great pride in its achievement. In 1950 it thought of itself as "the
                    world's most sanitary city" and believed it had achieved the distinciton at a
                    reasonable cost.78 In the year prior to the one in which the disposers were
                    installed, the city council had paid $6,000 to local scavengers to collect and dispose of 
                        Jasper
                    's garbage. The mayor had estimated that if the city's street
                    department were to assume responsibility for this service the annual cost would rise to
                        $13,000.79 By shifting primary responsibility for garbage
                    disposal to individual homeowners and by asking them to participate in a community-wide effort, the
                    city convinced most of its citizens that besides a reduction in taxes they would receive tangible
                    health and environmental benefits. And in large measure they have.
            For this reason few adjustments have been made in the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan since it was implemented. The alterations that have been made since 1950 have only
                    served to strengthen it. In 1964 an ordinance was passed requiring garbage disposers to be installed
                    in all new dwellings as well as in remodeled homes and apartments.80 In that
                    same year large public institutions and commercial establishments, such as hospitals and
                    restaurants, were made responsible for installing grease, oil, and sand interceptors "when,
                    in the opinion of the said Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
                    containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable wastes … and other harmful
                        ingredients."81 In 1964 and again in 1973, 
                        Jasper
                    's sewage treatment plant was enlarged to serve better the city's
                    expanding population.82 And each week, while there is no collection of garbage,
                    public employees pick up trash—tin cans, paper cartons, newspapers, glass—in
                    city-owned trucks.83
            
            While a small segment of 
                        Jasper
                    's homeowners (two hundred out of fourteen hundred) chose to burn or bury their
                    garbage following the August 1 deadline, a large majority agreed to 
                  
                     77 Interview with Thyen et al.
                  
                  
                     78 Dubois County Daily Herald, August 14, 1950.
                  
                     79 "Garbage Disposal Units for City Wide Use," 101.
                  
                     80 City of 
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana, "Ordinance Number 563," August 19, 1964.
                  
                     81 City of 
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana, "Ordinance Number 557," May 28, 1964.
                  
                     82 Albert F. Reinsch, "Plant History," section in
                                Annual Report of 
                                    Jasper
                                 Wastewater Facilities, 1980, files of the 
                                Jasper
                             Wastewater Facilities (
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     83 Robert E. Parker to Edwana Tibbs, September 30, 1974, form letter
                            in file t;e (Office of the Mayor, 
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana).
               
                     participate in a plan designed "to serve the best
                    interests of the entire community."84 Although German-Americans have on
                    occasion resisted public policies that "seemed to invade their private lives,"85 they have at other times been willing to put aside their suspicions and to
                    sacrifice their individualism for the common good. Particularly among German-American Catholics
                    self-reliance and independence have often been complemented by strong strains of voluntary mutual
                    assistance and respect.86
            
            In the case of the 
                        Jasper
                     Plan collective action came with relative ease and for good reason. Faced with several
                    environmental and public health hazards—pollution of the Patoka
                    River, cholera among garbage-fed hogs, and a polio epidemic—the community knew
                    full well that all it held dear was in danger. When it was demonstrated that these problems could in
                    large part be solved by a unique household appliance that was not only "simple, safe, and
                    sanitary" but also economical, most households fell "in line with 
                        Jasper
                    's revolutionary installation plan."87 However,
                    without the tireless efforts and persuasive arguments of Mayor Thyen and Editor Rumbach, 
                        Jasper
                     may not have become "the town that made garbage illegal."88
            
            
                    groups he would always deliver his "key punch line": "Helen,
                        wouldn't you feel a lot better to spend about a dollar or two a month and not have to
                        ask your husband to take the garbage out anymore." Thyen insisted that these women went
                        home with this message and that their husbands became immediate supporters of the 
                            Jasper
                         Plan. Interview with Thyen et al.
               
                
            
               
                  84 General Electric, Dad—What Was Garbage?
                        pamphlet (
                            Jasper
                         Public Library, 
                            Jasper
                        , Indiana).
               
                  85 See, for example, Judith Walzer Leavitt, The Healthiest
                            City: Milwaukee and the Politics of Health Reform (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1982), 82–83. Threatened by a smallpox epidemic, many
                        German-Americans in Milwaukee resisted a board of health vaccination policy because they did not
                        want "their personal liberty" diminished. They had come to the 
                            United States
                         in search of political freedoms and were not willing to "support a
                        government policy that seemed to invade their private lives."
               
                  86 See especially Philip Gleason, The Conservative Reformers:
                            German-American Catholics and the Social Order (Notre Dame, Ind., 1968),
                        201–202.
               
                  87
                        
                            Dubois County
                        
                        Daily Herald, August 11, 1950.
               
                  88 From a popular General Electric advertisement that read: "
                            Jasper
                        , Indiana. The town that made garbage illegal."
            
         
         
         
            The Dilemma of School Integration in the North: Gary, Indiana, 1945–1960
            Ronald D. Cohen∗
            
            On August 27, 1946, the Gary, Indiana, school board adopted a perhaps unprecedented policy: that
                    children shall not be discriminated against "in the school district in which they live, or
                    within the schools which they attend, because of race, color or religion." Integration
                    leader Reuben Olsen was particularly ecstatic. "Last night the Board of Education, in
                    solemn session, enacted the non-discrimination policy long fought over, and much feared,"
                    he reported to the National Urban League. "History was written last night." The
                    future for civil rights looked bright indeed. Sixteen years later, however, in a law suit filed
                    against the Gary school board, the plaintiffs charged that the city's schools, now over 50
                    percent black, were rigidly and systematically segregated. Whether by intent or accident, by 1961,
                    90 percent of the schools were segregated. What had happened to dash the high hopes of Reuben Olsen
                    and his civil rights colleagues? Why were their dreams blighted?1
            
            Public school integration has been one of the cornerstones of the civil rights movement in the 
                        United States
                     since World War II. The 1954 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     v. Board of Education decision marked 
                  
                     ∗ Ronald D. Cohen is professor of history at Indiana
                            University Northwest, Gary, Indiana. An initial draft of this paper was presented at the
                            annual meeting of the Organization of American Historians, 
                                Cincinnati
                            , April, 1983. The author is indebted to William Reese, Edward McClellan, and
                            Michael Homel for their astute comments.
                  
                     1 Gary Post-Tribune, August 28, 1946; Reuben Olsen
                            to Manet Fowler, August 29, 1946, Container 24, Gary, Indiana, Research File VI, C (National
                            Urban League Papers, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.); cited hereafter as NUL Papers; Max Wolff, "Segregation in the
                            Schools of Gary, Indiana," Journal of Educational Sociology,
                            XXXVI (February, 1963), 251–61. On the lawsuit Bell v. School City of Gary (1962), see John Kaplan, "Segregation
                            Litigation and the Schools—Part III: The Gary Litigation," Northwestern University Law Review, LIX (May-June, 1964), 121–70.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OK HISTORY. LXXXII (June. 1986). © 1986, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     the beginning of a new era in the struggle for racial equality
                    by undermining Jim Crow and insisting that separate schools meant inherently unequal schools. The
                    prime battleground between segregationists and integrationists was initially in the South; conflict
                    in the North was muted until the 1960s. Northern segregation, however, was more subtle and elusive,
                    and perhaps more insidious. It was clearly more persistent. An examination of school segregation and
                    integration in Gary, Indiana, between the war and the beginnings of a national civil rights struggle
                    enables us to comprehend more readily the historical forces that both promoted and resisted the
                    expansion of civil rights to all citizens in the North and across the nation.
            There is no general study of postwar northern school segregation, but bits and pieces of the story
                    have begun to appear. In 
                        Chicago
                    , for example, public schools became increasingly segregated during and after the 1920s.
                    Michael Homel found that, "In 1965, 89 percent of 
                        Chicago
                    's black pupils were enrolled at schools with 90–100 percent black
                    enrollments, a figure slightly above the level of the 1930s." The 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     decision had seemingly little influence. Vincent 
                        Franklin
                    , in his study of black education in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , concluded that "many northern school boards revealed that through various
                    quasilegal maneuvers, such as the shifting of school boundaries within the districts, school
                    officials were able to create separate [and inferior] black and other minority public
                    schools." What frustrated any attempt to change conditions, however—and there
                    were scattered active and passive protests—was the essentially de facto
                    nature of northern segregation. In many cities school boards did indeed pursue a policy of
                    separating black and white children. But with or without these efforts—and the lack of
                    interventionist measures, such as busing—school segregation would have occurred, for
                    neighborhoods, more than deliberate policies, fostered separate schools. Such was certainly the case
                    in Gary.2
            
            
               
                  2 Michael Homel, Down from Equality: Black Chicagoans and the
                            Public Schools, 1920–1941 (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1984), 187; Vincent 
                            Franklin
                        , The Education of Black 
                                Philadelphia
                            : The Social and Educational History of a Minority Community,
                            1900–1950 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1979), 199–200. See also David Kirp, Just Schools: The
                            Idea of Racial Equality in American Education (Berkeley, Calif., 1982); August Meier
                        and Elliott Rudwick, Along the Color Line: Explorations in the Black
                        Experience (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1976), 359–63. For a general overview of race and education which
                        slights the North, see Diane Ravitch, The Troubled Crusade: American Education,
                            1945–1980 (
                            New York
                        , 1983), 114–44. For the 
                            
                                Brown
                            
                         case, see Richard Kluger, Simple Justice: The History of Brown v. Board of
                            Education and Black America's Struggle for Equality (
                            New York
                        , 1975). In general, see 
                            Harvard
                         Sitkoff, The Struggle for Equality (
                            New York
                        , 1981), chap. 1. For increasing segregation in 
                            Chicago
                        , see Arnold R. Hirsch, Making the Second Ghetto: Race and Housing in 
                                Chicago
                            , 1940–1960 (
                     Cambridge, England
                  , 1983).
            
            
            The first northern city to champion school integration publicly was an unlikely choice for the honor.
                    The public school system of Gary began in 1906 when the city was founded on the southern shore of
                        Lake Michigan by the 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation. Within a few years the city would boast the world's largest
                    integrated steel mill and a multiethnic, multiracial population; by 1960 the population would reach
                    178,000, 40 percent of whom would be non-white. Its school system, once considered one of the most
                    innovative and "progressive" in the country, would drop from the limelight by the
                    eve of World War II, although it still maintained much of its original organization and program. By
                    1960 these, too, would be in shambles. The enrollment would be 22,000 in 1950 and over 41,000 in
                    1960, of whom half would be black.3
            
            Gary's schools always had been essentially segregated by residential boundaries and school
                    board policy. In 1927, responding to a strike by white students at the Emerson school, the board
                    decided to reinforce the existing de facto segregation by transferring the few
                    black students out of the Emerson school and deciding to build the all-black Roosevelt school. Only
                    the Froebel school, in the midst of the city's crowded ethnic and black south side,
                    thereafter had a racially mixed student body. While about 40 percent of the school's more
                    than 2,000 students in grades K-12 were black in 1945, there was only one black teacher. Social and
                    recreational activities were routinely segregated.4
            
            White community leaders and school officials had taken little notice of the segregated nature of the
                    schools until the 
                        Detroit
                     race riots of 1943, which frightened the Chamber of Commerce into appointing a fifteen
                    member committee to study the city's pervasive segregation. Composed of the mayor, the
                    editor of the local newspaper, the superintendent of the U.S. Steel plant, the school
                    superintendent, and six blacks, the committee 
                  
                     3 Ronald D. Cohen and Raymond A. Mohl, The Paradox of
                                Progressive Education: The Gary Plan and Urban Schooling (
                                Port Washington
                            , N.Y., 1979); Ronald D. Cohen, "World War II and the Travail of
                            Progressive Schooling: Gary, Indiana, 1940–1946," in Ronald K. Goodenow
                            and Diane Ravitch, eds., Schools in Cities: Consensus and Conflict in American
                                Educational History (
                                New York
                            , 1983), 263–86; James B. Lane, "City of the
                                Century": A History of Gary, Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1978); Raymond A. Mohl and Neil Betten, Steel City: Urban
                                and Ethnic Patterns in Gary, Indiana, 1906–1950 (
                                New York
                            , 1986), especially 55–59.
                  
                     4 Theodore Brameld, Minority Problems in the Public
                                Schools (
                                New York
                            , 1946), chap. 7; National Urban League, "A Study of the Social and
                            Economic Conditions of the Negro Population of Gary, Indiana," mimeo (December,
                            1944), 27 (Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana University Northwest, Gary, Indiana).
               
                     drafted a code on race relations which deplored segregation and
                    discrimination. Other organizations, including the local Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO),
                    supported these sentiments. In October, 1944, school officials sent representatives to a conference
                    on intergroup education sponsored by the Rosenwald Foundation. Subsequently, the superintendent
                    requested that the Bureau for Intercultural Education provide a consultant to the schools, and late
                    in the year Gary became one of three cities to obtain such assistance. By August, 1945, school
                    administrators and teachers had attended three conferences in the city which explored the use of
                    intercultural activities in the classrooms. But talk was not enough. As Theodore Brameld of the
                    Bureau wrote at the time, "The real task of breaking the steel ring of discrimination and
                    segregation now gripping Copperberg [Gary] so malevolently will require all the strength of ordinary
                    citizens as well as the finest kind of schools." The test came soon enough.5
            
            "A nationwide strike consciousness manifested itself in Gary this morning as white grade and
                    high school pupils of Froebel school walked out of class in protest against Negro pupils in that
                    institution," the Gary Post-Tribune informed its readers on September 18,
                    1945. The Froebel strike garnered national headlines and ran sporadically for the next three months.
                    It was a disturbing experience for all concerned, coming on the heels of the great victory over
                    fascism and amid a national labor strike fever. From the beginning community leaders, including the
                    superintendent and a united all-white school board, opposed any concessions to the strikers. As the
                    local daily paper editorialized, "approximately one fifth of Gary citizens are Negroes and
                    their needs and rights and privileges must be given equal consideration with all
                        others."6
            
            
               
                  5 Theodore Brameld, Minority Problems in the Public
                        Schools, 218, and chap. 7 in general; National Urban League, "A Study of the
                        Social and Economic Conditions of the Negro Population of Gary, Indiana," mimeo
                        (December, 1944), 23 (Calumet Regional Archives). On the history of the Bureau for Intercultural
                        Education, see Nicholas V. Montalto, A History of the Intercultural Educational
                            Movement, 1924–1941 (
                            New York
                        , 1982). See also, 
                            Harvard
                         Sitkoff, "Racial Militancy and Interracial Violence in the Second World
                        War," Journal of American History, LVIII (December, 1971),
                        661–81.
               
                  6 Gary Post-Tribune, September 18, 21, 22, 1945; James 
                            Tipton
                        , Community in Crisis: The Elimination of Segregation from a Public
                            School System (
                            New York
                        , 1953). From August, 1945, to August, 1946, there were a record 4,630 strikes
                        nationwide, with 5,000,000 strikers compiling a total of 120,000,000 days off. The Froebel
                        strike took place in this context. See Foster Rhea Dulles and Melvyn Dubofsky, Labor in America: A History (4th ed., Arlington Heights, Ill., 1984),
                        334–41.
            
            
            According to Noma Jensen of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP),
                    the strike and its counterparts in schools in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        New York
                     were excellent examples "of how Fascists can use and are using our children to
                    foment strife between our racial and religious groups." The city's recent
                    immigrant population seemed particularly susceptible to such machinations. A report by the school
                    system's social welfare director, Mark Roser, noted that virtually all of the strikers did
                    not "have what might be loosely called ‘An American
                    Background,’" Moreover, they were below average academically and exhibited a
                        "lack of status." In his detailed study of the strike, Community in Crisis, James 
                        Tipton
                     reaffirmed that "these boys who initiated the Bartow [Froebel] strike and who
                    chose the anti-Negro goal were ones whose lives, both at home and in school, had been largely
                    unhappy and difficult. One or two of them were badly maladjusted, the majority were mildly so, and
                    one or two were fairly well adjusted." He also noted that "they were driven to
                    become attention-seekers, ‘zoot-suiters,’ extremists in behavior, speech, and
                        appearance."7
            
            It was easy at first to blame seemingly fascist parents and maladjusted children for starting the
                    strike, but as it progressed the issues became more complicated. Initially the strikers, a majority
                    of the white high school students joined by some of the younger students, demanded removal of all
                    black students and the school's principal. On October 1 the strikers returned to classes
                    upon the school board's promise to investigate "charges of
                    maladministration" by the principal. In late October, with the principal exonerated by an
                    outside review board, the strike resumed, lasting from October 29 to November 12. The students now
                    demanded, not the transfer of blacks out of Froebel, but the integration of all of the
                    city's schools. The strikers' new goal went to the heart of the city's
                    and the school board's long-standing segregation policies. Slowly civic leaders recognized
                    the depth of the problem foretold in Brameld's recent warning. The strikers and their
                    parents, their hostility to the city's elite lying just below the surface, led the way in
                    forging an integration plan. "We are asking that all the schools be opened to all students,
                    both white and Negro," the Parents' Committee announced when the strike resumed.
                    "We are asking that all the public parks and beaches be opened to all citizens of the
                    community, both white 
                  
                     7 Noma Jensen, "What's Behind These School
                            Strikes?" The Nation's Schools (December, 1945), 24;
                            [Mark Roser], "Some Conclusions From the Study of the Personalities in the
                            Strike," manuscript in the Guy Wulfing Papers (Calumet Regional Archives); 
                                Tipton
                            , Community in Crisis, 68–69.
               
                     and Negro. By standing behind us in these demands, the
                    responsible members of other communities in Central City [Gary] can show unequivocably their
                    sincerity when speaking of the ‘democratic process.’" Three days
                    later Frank Sinatra, "The King of Swoon," arrived in the city "to croon
                    Gary bobby-soxers and their boy friends into a democratic attitude on the race relations
                    problem." Sinatra charmed the girls, denounced the strikers, then quickly left town. Less
                    than two weeks later the defeated strikers returned to their classes, having obtained no
                        satisfaction.8
            
            While the white establishment—business, political, civic, religious, and labor
                    leaders—quickly rallied to oppose the strike, the black community's response was
                    weak and divided. A central problem was the initial absence of a strong civil rights organization.
                    The local chapter of the NAACP, founded three decades before, had become inactive. In late September
                    National Secretary Walter White urged local chapter president Alfred Hall to contact the
                    superintendent, "making it known to him your opposition to separate schools for
                    Negroes." A month later, with still no action, White arrived in the city, meeting with the
                    editor of the paper and other community leaders. They reaffirmed their commitment to integration and
                    planned a mass rally, which never transpired, to feature Supreme Court Justice Frank Murphy and
                    entertainer Paul Robeson. White also urged William Hastie, an attorney with the national office of
                    the NAACP, to press the justice department concerning possible federal action, but this also
                    produced no results. In mid-December Assistant Secretary Roy Wilkins lamented that "the
                    recent school disturbance revealed that our branch was haplessly weak and ineffectual." The
                    following spring Director of Branches Ella Baker was again urging Hall to do something, particularly
                    since the National Urban League (NUL) had established a branch in Gary and was making a frontal
                    attack on the Gary school dilemma. "That the community had to wait for a new organization
                    to be established before the school situation was energetically attacked is a definite reflection
                    upon the NAACP," Baker complained. And indeed it was.9
            
            
               
                  8 Gary Post-Tribune, October 1, 29, November 1, 1945; 
                            Tipton
                        , Community in Crisis, 109.
               
                  9 Secretary Walter White to Alfred Hall, September 24, 1945, School
                        Incidents, January-October, 1945, Container 501, Series A, General Office File,
                        1940–1955, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Papers (Library
                        of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.); cited hereafter as NAACP Papers; White to Hall, October 22, 1945, ibid.; [Noma Jensen], "School Strikes in Gary, 
                            Chicago
                        , and 
                            New York
                        ," [1945], ibid.; Roy Wilkins to [Ella] Baker, December
                        12, 1945, folder 1940–1945, Gary, Indiana, Branch File 1940–1955, NAACP
                        Papers; Baker to Hall, March 27, 1946, folder 1946–1955, ibid.
               
            
            
            A highly critical 1944 study by the National Urban League of racial conditions in Gary had paved the
                    way for the league's arrival the following year. Organized in early fall the local chapter
                    was in no position to intervene during the strike's initial stages. In early October J.
                    Harvey Kerns, a representative from the national office, advised the small group against
                    "participation in the highly controversial school strike" because "the
                    League was too new—the organization was really not a going concern and had not been given
                    an opportunity to demonstrate its usefulness on many non-controversial issues." Kerns did
                    meet, however, with School Superintendent Charles Lutz and representatives of the Bureau for
                    Intercultural Education, who were still in the city. The league became more directly involved with
                    the arrival of Joseph Chapman, its first executive secretary, later in the month. In December it
                    joined with other organizations to form a coordinating agency on interracial problems.10
            
            Although they had returned to their classes, Froebel's white students were still not
                    satisfied and by early February they were threatening a renewal of the strike. As the school board
                    began considering a citywide integration plan, the local NUL chapter began playing a central role in
                    bringing Froebel whites and blacks together. Chapman informed the national office in February that
                    "we have established a relationship, that is, the local League and these dissatisfied
                    parents, and we are talking over very frankly racial issues. Through this same group the Executive
                    [Chapman] has established a relationship with a small group of Negroe [sic] students and White
                    students (former strike leaders), and through the two we believe the League is going to make a
                    significant contribution in solving the Froebel problem and prevent a strike." He was
                    correct. In early March six student leaders, black and white, having met in Chapman's
                    office, issued a public statement "declaring a permanent truce" and urging the
                    board of education to pass a general integration policy. The community was relieved.
                    "Froebel high school is once more the scene of light-hearted bobby soxers, whose main
                    concern these days is the chance of Froebel's thinlies in the Spring track
                    events," the Gary American, the city's black weekly, announced.
                    "The spectre of race hate, suspicion, and mutual distrust between Negro and white students,
                    has been dissolved." Mark Roser, who had strongly opposed the strike, commented
                    "that 
                  
                     10 J. Harvey Kerns to Eugene Kinckle Jones, October 12, 1945,
                            Container 25, Gary, Indiana, Research File, VI, C, NUL Papers; Gary Post-Tribune, December 21, 1945.
               
                     the students of Froebel school are becoming the most tolerant
                    in the whole city." As events would demonstrate he was probably correct.11
            
            By late spring pressure was mounting to integrate the schools and generally improve race relations.
                    Organized and unorganized intercultural activities flourished. In April, when the school board
                    created an intercultural scholarship foundation in order to send teachers to intercultural
                    workshops, the school superintendent reluctantly confessed, "race relations is
                    Gary's major problem." Finally, on August 27, 1946, the school board adopted an
                    integration policy stating that children "shall not be discriminated against in the school
                    districts in which they live, or within the school which they attend, because of race, color or
                    religion." The Urban League's Manet Fowler later wrote that "with this
                    step, the board not only raised a proud standard for democracy, but soundly and courageously stuck
                    its spade against the root of all future strikes." Implementation was to begin in
                    September, 1947, when all children, black and white, in grades K-3 (later changed to K-6) would have
                    to attend their neighborhood school. Older children would be allowed to finish in the school they
                    had been attending.12
            
            Gary was one of the first northern cities to officially integrate its schools. Why did this happen?
                    Foremost, the city's elite was united on the need for promoting racial harmony. They had
                    first tried educational programs and token measures, but when faced with unruly working-class
                    students and parents whose protests were tinged with overt racism, they decided to take a harder
                    line. Moreover, their resolve to integrate was reinforced by the city's more progressive
                    organizations, such as a civil liberties committee, the CIO, Anselm Forum, and the League of Women
                    Voters. The school board's membership reflected the interests of the city's elite.
                    Among its five members were a druggist, a U.S. Steel production planner, a Presbyterian minister,
                    the retiring president of the Chamber of Commerce and executive of the local power company, and a
                    civic leader who was the only female on the board. Three of the members were Democrats, one was a
                    Republican, and one was an Independent (the minister), but all five were connected to the
                    city's close-knit power 
                  
                     11 Joseph Chapman to Lester B. Granger, February 20, 1946, Container
                            91, Gary, Indiana, Research File, VI, F, NUL Papers; Gary Post-Tribune,
                            March 2, 1946; Gary American, March 8, 1946; 
                                Tipton
                            , Community in Crisis, 87–97.
                  
                     12 Gary Post-Tribune, April 10, August 28, 1946;
                            Manet Fowler, "Spotlight Still on Gary," American Unity,
                            V (January, 1947), 6; 
                                Tipton
                            , Community in Crisis, 97–101.
               
                     structure. Their integration plan reflected enlightened liberal
                    thinking, yet when implemented it obviously would not seriously disrupt the community. It was safe.
                    It also served as an important symbol of cooperation among community, business, and labor leaders
                    who were otherwise divided along economic and political lines. James Tipton has stressed the growing
                    national climate for integration as a general cause of integration in specific cities, but this does
                    not seem to have been of much importance given the continued segregation in other northern cities.
                    Also of little importance were the efforts of the black community which, aside from the belated
                    activities of the NUL, played a minimal role throughout the controversy. Although committed to
                    supporting equality through integration while retaining pride in the all-black schools, the black
                    community lacked organizational unity and forceful leadership.13
            
            An integration policy had finally been adopted, but implementing it would not be easy. Particularly
                    difficult was the situation at the Emerson school, the city's second oldest, situated in a
                    predominantly middle-class neighborhood on the north side—the area most susceptible to
                    integration. Many believed that the Froebel strike had been partially fueled by the memory of the
                    success of the Emerson strikers in 1927. The predominantly white neighborhood was now as opposed to
                    integration as it had been nineteen years earlier. In November, 1946, the school board received a
                    petition from purportedly 90 percent of the taxpayers of the district protesting enrollment of
                    "any persons other than members of the Caucasian race" in the Emerson school. The
                    petition was immediately "branded as undemocratic, un-American and un-Christian"
                    by the city's establishment, according to the Gary Post-Tribune. School
                    authorities, strongly supported by the teachers, moved slowly ahead to insure peaceful integration
                    the following year. By June, 1947, it was evident that only a handful of black children, dispersed
                    among six previously all-white schools, would be directly affected and that no white children would
                    be transferred to any all-black schools. Hopes brightened in the spring when the antidiscrimination
                    candidate for mayor won the Democratic primary by a slim margin against a man opposed to
                    integration, and black doctors were finally allowed to practice in the city's Methodist and
                    Catholic hospitals.14
            
            
               
                  13
                        
                            Tipton
                        , Community in Crisis, 101–11.
               
                  14 Gary Post-Tribune, November 13, 1946; 
                            Tipton
                        , Community in Crisis, 112–32. Emerson, similar to
                        Froebel and Gary's other major schools, still included grades K-12. The establishment
                        of separate high schools would come in the late 1950s. On the 1927 Emerson strike, see Cohen and
                        Mohl, Paradox of Progressive Education, 138–40. On intercultural
                        policy in 1946 and 1947, see also Dana Philip Whitmer, "Proposed Extension in the
                        School and Classroom Programs of Inter-group Education in the Public Schools of Gary,
                        Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            Ohio
                         State University, 1949), 31–34.
            
            
            
               EMERSON SCHOOL STUDENTS' STRIKE, 1947
               Courtesy of the Calumet Regional Archives, Gary, Indiana.
            
            
            The rest of the city was apparently prepared for the inevitable. However, when school opened in
                    September and 116 black children cautiously entered the doors of six previously all-white schools, a
                    storm broke at Emerson as about 200 students walked out to protest the 38 newcomers to the
                    elementary grades. The next day they were joined by another 600 or 700, mostly from the high school.
                    School authorities, having learned their lesson, did not hesitate to threaten retaliation. Students
                    under sixteen who did not return to classes were to be considered truants, while students sixteen
                    and over were to be suspended and made ineligible for athletics. The strike lasted ten days. Again
                    most of the community rallied behind school authorities, and there was no trouble at the other newly
                    integrated schools. "What have the people of Emerson district accomplished by standing out
                    against the democratic policy of the school board," the local paper editorialized.
                    "They have lost a week's schooling for their children. They have stirred up a
                    cauldron of ill-will which can become a lasting poison if it is not countered with a realization
                    they have made a mistake. For they are trying to turn backward the democratic process in an age in
                    which that process is being accelerated everywhere." The strikers were also condemned by
                    the Catholic church and other religious organizations, the CIO, the Chamber of Commerce, and the
                    Gary Bar Association, to name but a few. The black community again took a back seat, however. The
                    NAACP national office wrote to local president Hall, "we expect that the NAACP leadership
                    in matters of this kind would be in the thick of the fray working with various groups and with our
                    own membership urging them to take a dynamic and aggressive part to alleviate the basic problems
                    which confront our citizenry." But nothing happened. Similarly, the Urban League stayed in
                    the background, confident that the white establishment would satisfactorily handle the situation.15
            
            The principle, if not necessarily the substance, of integration was firmly established in the Gary
                    schools by late 1947. Some had resisted, others had argued that more should have been accomplished
                    (particularly the integration of the all-black schools and the high school grades), but most were
                    satisfied. "The tremendous job of allaying tensions, of reestablishing good will and of
                    educating the public to a proper acceptance of the Negro's rightful position in the
                    community remains to be done," S. Andhil 
                  
                     15 Gary Post-Tribune, September 5, 1947; Gloster B.
                            Current to Hall, September 16, 1947, folder 1946–1955, Gary, Indiana, Branch
                            File, 1940–1955, NAACP Papers; Joseph C. Chapman, interview with author, Gary,
                            Indiana, December 1, 1981; 
                                Tipton
                            , Community in Crisis, 133–49.
               
                     Fineberg reported to the Bureau for Intercultural Education in
                    late September. "These things can be done better, however, now that the system of
                    segregation in Gary schools has ended." In early 1948 Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt presented
                    Superintendent Charles Lutz a citation from the Bureau for Intercultural Education for the Gary
                    schools' "contribution to the democratic cause."16
            
            It was now necessary for Gary leaders to build upon the gains that had been made. Representatives
                    from the bureau temporarily remained in the city to offer advice and establish networks within and
                    between the schools to promote intercultural activities. A City-wide Democractic Living Committee,
                    composed of representatives from each school's Building Committee on Democratic Living,
                    organized the previous year, discussed ways of promoting better democratic living and brought in
                    consultants to meet with the teachers. By 1949, however, a shortage of funds forced the bureau to
                    withdraw, and the lack of an overall strategy to promote equality by the school board and school
                    administrators continued to produce mixed results. In his 1949 dissertation on the Gary school
                    system, Dana Whitmer applauded how much had been accomplished, but also warned: "there has
                    been no planned program through which the majority, or even a large number, of teachers have worked
                    toward common ends in integroup education. The programs of intergroup education which have been
                    developed … have depended largely on the individual interest, initiative, and enthusiasm
                    of the principals and teachers in the schools." He also noted that "with the
                    exception of two schools, pupils in Gary Schools have complete equality of opportunity in regard to
                    school curricula, activities, and services." In the Froebel school there was full
                    integration in the lower grades, but in grades eight through twelve discrimination persisted in
                    athletics, the band, swimming facilities, theater, social activities, and class offices. A few black
                    teachers had been hired, however, as well as a black school psychologist.17
            
            Although disturbed by continuing inequalities, the black community focused its attention on having
                    the mayor appoint a 
                  
                     16 Gary Post-Tribune, February 21, 1948; S. Andhil
                            Fineberg, "What Happened in Gary," September 26, 1947, American Jewish
                            Committee Papers (Blaustein Library, 
                                New York
                            ).
                  
                     17 Whitmer, Proposed Extension in the School and Classroom
                            Programs," 36–40, 244–45. For information on an intercultural
                            unit at the Emerson school, see Gladys Pierce, "Intercultural Relations, Gary,
                            Indiana" (Master's thesis, Indiana University, 1950).
               
                     black member to the school board. "Many individuals
                    not living in the Central District are of the impression that the citizens south of the 
                        Wabash
                     tracks are not too concerned over the present school board appointment that is to be
                    made in the near future," the Gary American editorialized in August,
                    1948. The whites could not be more wrong. "We're quiet, but we're not
                    asleep in the Central District." Success came the following year when, after months of
                    delay, Mayor Eugene Swartz appointed the Reverend J. Claude Allen of the Colored Methodist Episcopal
                    church to the school board. The Gary American was jubilant, commenting that this
                    "has won the respect for the mayor of nearly every citizen in the Central
                    District." This appointment and the passage of a statewide desegregation plan were flickers
                    of hope as the troubled decade ended.18
            
            While hope remained, conditions deteriorated. By 1951, 85 percent of the schools were segregated, and
                    83 percent of the 8,406 black children were attending all-black schools. Ten years later 90 percent
                    of the schools were highly segregated, and 97 percent of the 23,055 black pupils were in eighteen
                    predominantly or exclusively black schools, with primarily black teachers and administrators. The
                    ever worsening problem of school overcrowding was particularly galling. All five schools in the
                    black district were over capacity; by 1949 the Roosevelt school was bulging at the seams with 3,800
                    in a building built to hold no more than 2,711. Half-day classes, rented facilities, and overflowing
                    classrooms soon became common at Roosevelt and many other schools.19
            
            Gary entered the 1950s as one of the most segregated cities in the North. While a 1955 Urban League
                    study by Warren Banner argued "that the Board of Education and school administrators
                    [should] be lauded for their zeal in attempting to provide sufficient building facilities for the
                    school population and for their efforts in eliminating discriminatory practices in the school
                    system," all were not satisfied. The local Urban League, for instance, was concerned about
                    six issues: the segregation of school districts, the integration of teaching staffs, equal access
                    for blacks to all school facilities, the hiring of additional black employees in the school system,
                    the expansion of vocational programs, and attention to the employment opportunities of high school
                    graduates. Furthermore, Clifford Minton, director of the local NUL, felt that Banner had gone too
                    far in praising school officials. "It 
                  
                     18 Gary American, August 27, 1948, March 4, 1949.
                  
                     19 Wolff, "Segregation in the Schools of Gary,
                            Indiana," 251–61.
               
                     is commonly known and generally agreed that the initiation and
                    progress on integration in the Gary School System came as the direct result of a
                    ‘crisis,’" he wrote to Banner in 
                        New York
                    . "Further that in the main, the gradual changes which have taken place from
                    year to year came almost in spite of rather than because of interest and leadership on the part of
                    top school administrators. In most cases positive changes have been effected in proportion to the
                    extent they were warranted by expediency." Minton believed the best tactic for obtaining
                    action on the local NUL's concerns was through "communication and negotiation with
                    the superintendent and his staff and members of the [school] board rather than formal pronouncements
                    and I think we got a heck of a lot more done that way." He was particularly proud of the
                    role he played in replacing School Superintendent Lutz with Alden Blankenship in 1956. "We
                    remained in the background," he informed Urban League Executive Director Lester Granger,
                    "but to put it mildly, our interest and influence on this development was
                    siginificant." A member of the advisory board to select Lutz's successor, he
                    believed his personal knowledge of Blankenship through NUL connections was a decisive factor.20
            
            Lutz was fired by the school board in September, 1955, following the publication of a very critical
                    survey of the schools conducted by the Public Administration Service (PAS). The survey reported that
                    the schools were overcrowded, the curriculum inadequate, finances in disarray, and "student
                    achievement … low and in great need of improvement." The responsibility for
                    these faults, the survey concluded, lay with the superintendent: Lutz's weak leadership
                    served to "undermine completely the morale and confidence of the board and of teachers,
                    principals, parents, and students in those persons and institutions which are supposed to provide
                    positive and responsible leadership in public education." Although virtually complete in
                    its examination of Lutz and the school system, the report ignored any signs of racial segregation or
                    discrimination. It mirrored the official line that denied there were any problems. Following the
                    Supreme Court's 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     ruling the previous year, the Gary Post-Tribune had crowed that the decision
                    had come more than seven years after the Gary School Board had laid down 
                  
                     20 Warren M. Banner, A Study of the Social and Economic
                                Conditions in Three Minority Groups, Gary, Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 81; Clifford Minton, interview with author, Gary, Indiana, October 19,
                            1982; Minton to 
                                Warren
                             Banner, June 3, 1955, Container 97, Gary 1955, Affiliate File D, 1
                            Administrative Department, NUL Papers; Minton to Granger, January 24, 1956, Container 97,
                            Gary 1956, ibid.
                  
               
                     the policy that had eliminated such segregation from the Gary
                    school system, and quoted Superintendent Lutz's optimistic evaluation, "The
                    program of eliminating gradually segregation in the city's schools has now been
                    completed." Such self-deception was easy when there were the more pressing problems of
                    overcrowding and funding. A few, however, did not share the prevalent optimism. "Local
                    citizens have and are raising many pertinent and constructive questions about progress on carrying
                    out the Gary school integration policy," Minton noted in May, 1955. "It seems that
                    the consensus is that after the pressure of the incidents that lead [sic] to the ‘1946
                    Policy’ subsided, that school administrators have not been consistent or given much or
                    effective leadership to this matter."21
            
            Blankenship was quickly embroiled in questions of segregation and integration. The situation at two
                    transition schools was particularly acute, prompting Minton to inform the new superintendent in
                    March, 1957, that there was "evidence of subtle and overt teacher-pupil resentment to the
                    increase of Negro enrollment in the school population [that] has not and is not being met with
                    positive leadership." Moreover, questions were "raised about evident methods by
                    which school district boundaries are regulated and the apparent plans to maintain as high a degree
                    of racial segregation in the schools of the area as possible through illogical or unnatural
                    manipulation of school boundaries." In December Blankenship assured the Urban League
                    director: "we are making progress in the schools even though we do not have all of the
                    answers. In our school curriculum, we are emphasizing the likenesses of people of different races
                    and creeds and the fact that it is the individual rather than his race, color or creed which is
                    important…. We still have some schools with an all-white or an all-Negro
                    population…. Changes will come slowly in certain areas of the community. Nevertheless, we
                    feel that we are making progress on a sound basis." Two days later Minton informed the
                    national office that while some progress had indeed been made, particularly in the few integrated
                    schools, there remained many problems. "A major proportion of the new schools constructed
                    during recent years are located in areas almost totally inhabited by Negroes," he noted.
                    "Generally, due to the placement of these schools, they will have little, if any, influence
                    on the integration process." He preferred, however, to stress the 
                  
                     21 Public Administration Service, The Public School
                                System of Gary, Indiana (n.p., 1955), 17, 37; Gary Post-Tribune,
                            May 18, 1954; [Clifford Minton], "Implementation of Policy on Integration Adopted
                            by Gary School Board—9 Years Ago—August, 1946," May 25, 1955,
                            Minton Papers.
               
                     "progress" that had been made in order to
                    "realistically enhance our city's prestige."22
            
            Segregation, so pervasive, was difficult to reduce, but more specific grievances were easier to
                    confront, if not redress. The black community, desiring to broaden the students'
                    opportunities, continually sought more vocational courses and counseling. In a 1949 editorial the
                    Gary Post-Tribune related that the "Gary American [sic] has hammered away
                    for years for more shops, better equipped. Maybe one day the head of the institution will see the
                    need for teaching for the masses instead of the classes." The problem, simply, was the
                    elitist principle. The PAS survey listed the Roosevelt school, still the largest all-black school,
                    as having one of the three best vocational programs in the city. This, however, was within the
                    context that the "entire industrial arts program in the Gary schools is poorly developed
                    and has been neglected by the administration both centrally and in the individual schools."
                    The previous year a group of black ministers had queried the school board regarding the employment
                    opportunities for black high school graduates who did "not meet standards normally expected
                    of individuals with high school education." They particularly lacked English, typing, and
                    shorthand skills. In his official reply Assistant Superintendent Whitmer related that school
                    officials were color-blind regarding vocational courses and guidance. "Our experience
                    indicates that membership of a student in any religious, ethnic, or racial group does not determine
                    his needs, interests, and potentialities. These are determined by factors of heredity and
                    environment," he concluded. "Consequently, we have not set up special programs in
                    guidance activities for Negro students." Still, complaints continued. In 1959 Minton
                    reported to the Urban League that black youth still had difficulty obtaining clerical jobs because
                    of inadequate school training. He echoed the old charge "that while possibly not more than
                    25 percent of the graduates of some Gary schools enter college, … high priority is placed
                    on college preparatory training." As the decade ended the curriculum issue remained
                        clouded.23
            
            
               
                  22 Minton to Alden Blankenship, March 5, 1957, Gary Urban League Papers
                        (University of 
                            Illinois
                         at 
                            Chicago
                         Library, 
                     Chicago, Illinois
                  ); Blankenship to Minton, December
                        3, 1957, ibid.; Minton to R. Maurice Moss, December 5, 1957, ibid.
               
               
                  23 Gary Post-Tribune, November 11, 1949; Public
                        Administration Service, Public School System of Gary, Indiana, 89; Reverend
                        Ivor Moore et al. to Charles E. Daugherty, March 16, 1954, Minton Papers; Dana
                        Whitmer to Ministers' Study Group, May 11, 1954, ibid.; Minton to
                        Members, Gary Urban League Board of Directors and Advisory Council, January 20, 1959, Gary Urban
                        League Papers.
            
            
            Another source of friction was teacher segregation. The large year-by-year jump in school enrollments
                    created periodic shortages and required continual recruitment and placement of new teachers. The
                    Urban League supported integrated faculties. But in 1955 four schools had all-black teaching staffs,
                    thirteen schools had all-white staffs, and another eight schools had integrated staffs. Eleven of
                    the twenty-five schools had no black students. Overall, 42 percent of the pupils were nonwhite, but
                    only 25 percent of the teachers. Minton recognized that some teachers might not be comfortable in
                    integrated classrooms, but integration, he felt, had to be the goal. Two years later Blankenship
                    assured Minton "we base our selection of staff members on the person best qualified for the
                    job." The meaning of this statement became clear in November, 1959, when the league
                    discovered that in an advertisement of current teaching vacancies certain positions were secretly
                    designated as being for white applicants while others were for blacks. In an interview with the
                    director of personnel, he "admitted that this was the first occasion on which
                    ‘apparent racial designations’ were used to describe the location of specific
                    vacancies." He added "that no subsequent announcements with such
                    ‘connotations’ had been, or would be, used." Such a blatant policy
                    was probably dropped, but integration remained elusive.24
            
            Occasionally there were events which provided a glimmer of hope for the advancement of school staff
                    integration. For example, when the first black supervisor was appointed in 1956 the Gary American believed the appointment would "mean much toward bettering race
                    relations in the city." But in late 1959 the Midtown Citizens' Committee, an
                    interracial group, reported that aside from supervisory personnel, there had been little progress.
                    "There is little if any evidence to show that systematic efforts are being made to
                    encourage or to implement a policy of teacher integration in the majority of our public
                    schools," the committee noted. One glaring problem was "that the majority of the
                    school principals have a passive or reactionary or negative attitude toward teacher
                    integration," black as well as white. The committee found only six or seven schools with
                    token teacher integration, and they were ones with predominantly black student bodies; the remainder
                    of the thirty-six schools were either all white or all black. The superintendent and the school
                    board, meeting with 
                  
                     24 [Minton] to Mary Harris, May 17, 1955, Minton Papers; Blankenship
                            to Minton, December 3, 1957, Gary Urban League Papers; Charles Graves to Minton, November
                            12, 1959, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  URBAN LEAGUE DINNER, 1958
                  Left to right, Clifford E. Minton, executive director of the Gary Urban League; H. B. Snyder,
                            president of the Gary Urban League and publisher of the Gary Post-Tribune;
                            Winthrop Rockefeller; and Peter Mandich, mayor of Gary, Indiana
                  Courtesy of the Calumet Regional Archives, Gary, Indiana.
               
                     the committee, once again promised "an uneventful
                    integration of all school personnels [sic]."25
            
            Another somewhat clearer problem was school overcrowding. The rapid increase of students,
                    particularly in black and white working-class neighborhoods, put a great strain on school buildings
                    and finances. By mid-decade new schools were being built at a rapid rate, but this rate continued to
                    lag behind the increase in demand. The black community continually demanded new classrooms. In 1950
                    hundreds of Roosevelt school students were either in rented facilities or attending half-day
                    sessions. Two years later the Gary Post-Tribune boasted, "For the first
                    time in more than 20 years Roosevelt School will operate with all children on full-time
                    schedules." Of course, almost two hundred were still housed in the American Legion hut or
                    in the basement of the local Lutheran church. The opening of six new elementary schools in 1958
                    finally allowed for the conversion of Roosevelt and three other unit (K-12) schools to upper grades
                    only. While conditions eased somewhat at Roosevelt, elementary students at Froebel, now a
                    predominantly black school, experienced half-day sessions or attended classes at the Galilee Baptist
                    Church, First Hungarian Reform Church, Gary National Guard Armory, and the local branch library.
                    Overall some 2,000 students citywide were taught in similar facilities in 1958.26
            
            While new schools were greatly needed and welcomed, their location could cause controversy. In 1957,
                    Minton wrote: "a major proportion of the new schools constructed during recent years are
                    located in areas almost totally inhabited by Negroes. Generally, due to the placement of these
                    schools, they will have little, if any, influence on the integration process." During the
                    decade Minton attempted from time to time to raise the issue of grouping new schools with school
                    officials, but, as he later admitted, "we just simply didn't have the
                    horses—we could have made a stronger protest but that's just about what it
                    really added up to." Finally, in 1962 the NAACP entered a lawsuit on behalf of 100 black
                    plaintiffs. In Bell v. School City of Gary the plaintiffs made three charges: that
                    the school board and superintendent had a "constitutional duty to provide and maintain a
                    racially integrated school system"; that segregation was deliberate; and 
                  
                     25 Gary American, August 31, 1956; "Special
                            Factors Re: Teacher-Integration in Gary Public Schools to be Considered at the December
                            Meeting of the Midtown Citizens' Committee," December 4, 1959, Gary Urban
                            League Papers; F. Laurence Anderson et al. to Joseph Lucky et
                                al., January 8, 1960, ibid.; Anderson to Midtown Citizens
                            Committee, February 12, 1960, ibid.
                  
                  
                     26 Gary Post-Tribune, September 8, 1952.
               
                    
                    
                  GATHERING of GARY SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS and TEACHERS, CA. EARLY 1950s. DANA WHITMER is on the FAR RIGHT.
                  Courtesy of the Calumet Regional Archives, Gary, Indiana.
               
                     that black schools had "unequal facilities in all
                    respects, including, but not limited to over-crowded and larger classes, and unequal recreational
                    facilities." The suit, one of the first in the North, although lost, capped the twenty-year
                    struggle to achieve equal schooling in Gary.27
            
            In 1962, eighteen of the forty-two schools had an essentially all-black student body, twenty were all
                    white, and only four were mixed. According to one authority 97 percent of the 23,000 black students
                    attended segregated schools. The school board's decision in March to build another high
                    school in the predominantly black Central District touched off a protest in the black community,
                    which preferred a site further west to insure greater integration. A month later the board backed
                    down. Now committed to challenging the board, the rejuvenated local NAACP decided to file a general
                    discrimination suit against the board. School authorities, while admitting racial imbalance, denied
                    this was intentional or that the black schools were in any way inferior. The trial in federal court
                    began on September 10 and lasted four days. Robert Carter, chief counsel of the NAACP, orchestrated
                    the plaintiffs' fase, which hinged on the testimony of an expert witness, Dr. Max Wolff.28
            
            The plaintiffs lost because they could not prove that Gary's school segregation was designed
                    by the school board. High school boundaries essentially had not changed since 1941, a time when
                    racial segregation was permitted under state law as well as official school board policy. While
                    elementary school construction had continually altered attendance boundaries, these boundaries could
                    be explained on the basis of natural barriers and conditions—railroad tracks, roads, and
                    rivers. There was no written or oral evidence that race had been a factor in boundary selection;
                    indeed, school authorities had plausible explanations for the building of various schools and their
                    attendance patterns. New schools were grouped together because of population congestion and the
                    availability of land, often land already owned by the school system. Particularly damaging to the
                    plaintiffs' case was the testimony of the black school board president and a white
                    prointegration member that race had never been considered in drawing district boundaries. The judge
                    ruled that the plaintiffs had failed to prove the school board had "deliberately or
                    purposely 
                  
                     27 Minton to Moss, December 5, 1957, Gary Urban League Papers;
                            interview with Minton; Kaplan, "Segregation Litigation and the
                            Schools—Part III," 131–32.
                  
                     28 Wolff, "Segregation in the Schools of Gary,
                            Indiana," 252. For somewhat different figures, see Kaplan, "Segregation
                            Litigation and the Schools—Part III," 128.
               
                     segregated the Gary schools," although there was legal
                    precedent for putting the burden of proof on the defendants in such cases.29
            
            The absence of school board reports and inadequate board minutes, combined with a scarcity of
                    supporting documentation, make it very difficult to corroborate either the charges of the NAACP or
                    the findings of the court. What seems clear is that the five-member school board, composed through
                    the 1950s of essentially middle-class businessmen, union leaders, and a black
                    minister—eight men and one woman—gave little thought to school integration.
                    Responding to pressures from various neighborhoods to eliminate overcrowding, their primary goal was
                    to build new schools. They did what they thought was expedient. That their decisions encouraged
                    segregation, and that they ignored methods of promoting integration were matters of little concern
                    to them. Gary's persistent school segregation can be said, therefore, to have been
                    essentially de facto.
            
            As for the charge that the black schools were inferior and grossly overcrowded, and that their
                    students displayed poorer academic achievement, the judge ruled that in building ten new schools in
                    the Central District the school board had shown good faith in trying to cope with the population
                    explosion. The plaintiffs could have emphasized the almost complete segregation of teachers, which
                    did appear contrived, but "they carefully avoided implying that the Negro schools might be
                    made in any way inferior by their predominant number of Negro teachers." Since the courts
                    had not ruled that de facto segregation necessarily meant academic inferiority,
                    the charge used by the plaintiffs was weak. Busing and its controversial justifications were still
                    in the future. In fact, the judge argued that transferring students miles from their homes in order
                    to promote integration "would in my opinion be indeed a violation of the equal protection
                    clause of the Fourteenth Amendment." The judge was upheld by the Seventh Circuit Court of
                    Appeals. It ruled that there was no legal remedy for de facto school segregation,
                    which the plaintiffs had now practically admitted was the form of segregation existing in Gary
                    schools. The Supreme Court never heard the case.30
            
            Following the Bell case, as the city was becoming more black, there was an
                    increasing commitment in Gary to foster school 
                  
                     29 Kaplan, "Segregation Litigation and the
                            Schools—Part III," 142.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 155; John Kaplan, "Segregation Litigation and the
                            Schools—Part II: The General Northern Problem," Northwestern University Law Review, LVIII (May-June, 1963), 191. Also see, in
                            general, J. Harvie Wilkinson, From 
                                    Brown
                                 to Bakke: The Supreme Court and School Integration,
                            1954–1978 (
                                New York
                            , 1979).
               
                     integration. Integration had become a political and social,
                    rather than a legal, issue per se. Although most whites remained unconvinced of the need to promote
                    integration, most blacks felt that further integration was necessary for black academic performance
                    to improve; this despite continuing black pride in all-black schools, Roosevelt in particular.
                    Still, there were indications that there were troubles in the few mixed schools. In 1957 Minton
                    alerted the superintendent to ways of preventing friction at two newly integrated white schools
                    where there was "evidence of subtle and overt teacher-pupil resentment to the increase of
                    Negro enrollment in the school population [which] has not and is not being met with positive
                    leadership and planning." More serious problems erupted at the previously troubled Emerson
                    school in 1960. Black parents charged some of the (all) white teachers and students, supported by
                    the principal, with violence and intimidation. The superintendent reported to the school board
                    "that he and his supervisory staff have investigated the charges and are continuing to seek
                    a solution to the school's human relations problems." Unfortunately, such
                    difficulties would continue as blacks moved into other previously all-white neighborhoods and
                        schools.31
            
            In the two decades following World War II Gary, with a large black population, remained one of the
                    main battlefields in the North over school integration. The Froebel strike, the school
                    board's integration plan, the Emerson strike, galloping de facto
                    segregation, attempts to promote intercultural education and teacher integration, and finally a
                    lawsuit kept Gary in the headlines and made it a focal point for the dreams and aspirations of those
                    who supported civil rights. The role of the black community in this struggle was generally low-key,
                    except in the earliest years when the Urban League was instrumental in healing the wounds at the
                    Froebel school and bringing about an integration plan. Nevertheless, the league never abandoned the
                    dream of educational equality and opportunity, normally working with and through the city's
                    white power structure. A key factor was the league's long-time president H. B. Snyder,
                    publisher of the Gary Post-Tribune, whom Minton attributes with much
                    behind-the-scenes maneuvering. Minton well expressed his dilemma, "you're in the
                    middle in the Urban League, you're suspect by many whites of being too liberal or too
                    radical and you're right 
                  
                     31 Minton to Blankenship, March 5, 1957, Gary Urban League Papers;
                            Gary Post-Tribune, April 27, 1960.
               
                     in the middle and you have a tight line to walk." And
                    walk it he did.32
            
            Gary accomplished much on paper but little in practice. One problem was that de
                    facto segregation, in the years before the relief of busing, successfully prevented substantial
                    school integration. The black community, growing rapidly, spread outward from its base in the
                    Central District, providing little chance for mixed neighborhoods. In the Bell
                    suit the NAACP tried to prove deliberate school segregation but was unsuccessful and even dropped
                    this line of argument in its appeals. To be sure there was white resistance, both overt and subtle.
                    This, combined with natural demographic changes, successfully frustrated any real integration. After
                    the Emerson strike in 1947 the battle between integrationists and segregationists was essentially
                    muted: the former claiming victory, the latter uneasily awaiting the future. Following the 
                        
                            Brown
                        
                     decision the city's elite congratulated themselves on solving Gary's
                    problems and with their fellow Northerners turned their eyes to the South. They were also confident
                    that school integration would be limited to the working-class schools, which was essentially true
                    until the 1960s. Gary was an early leader among northern cities in recognizing the obvious dangers
                    of blatant racism and segregation, but it chose to settle for paper solutions and token
                    satisfaction, a northern trait of the period. Such acquiescence was directly challenged in the 1960s
                    in Gary and elsewhere, again with mixed results. The dilemma of discrimination and segregation in
                    the land of democracy would continue to plague everyone concerned.33
            
            
               
                  32 Interview with Minton.
               
                  33 On integration attempts in the 1960s, see, in addition to the works
                        cited above, Allen Matusow, The Unravelling of America: A History of Liberalism in
                            the 1960s (
                            New York
                        , 1984), 60–96, 180–216.
            
         
         
         
            "The Late Dr. Ward of Indiana": Rafinesque's Source of the Walam Olum
            William Barlow and David O. Powell∗
            
            In 1954 the Indiana Historical Society published Walam Olum or Red Score: The Migration
                        Legend of the Lenni Lenape or 
                            Delaware
                         Indians; A New Translation Interpreted by Linguistic, Historical, Archaeological,
                        Ethnological, and Physical Anthropological Studies.
               1 The volume was the
                    product of a twenty-year, interdisciplinary study of the tribal chronicle of the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians from the time of their migration from Asia to Alaska through their migration
                    across the North American continent. The story was recorded each generation by pictorial symbols
                    painted on sticks and preserved in bundles. Although the sticks are not extant, copies of the
                    pictographs and the 
                        Delaware
                     text which explains them were prepared by the nineteenth-century botanist and natural
                    historian, Constantine Samuel Rafinesque. During his tenure as professor at Transylvania University
                    in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , Rafinesque obtained "some of the original Wallam-Olum" in 1822 from "the late Dr. Ward of
                    Indiana" who had received them from "the Linapi tribe of Wapahani or
                        White River" in 1820 "as a reward for a medical cure,
                    deemed a curiosity." Initially, Rafinesque considered the sticks to be 
                  
                     ∗ William Barlow is professor of history at Seton Hall
                            University, South 
                        Orange, New Jersey
                     . David O. Powell is professor of history
                            at Long Island University, Greenvale, 
                                New York
                            . The authors are indebted to Howard H. Peckham, secretary of the Indiana
                            Historical Society, 1945–1953, and director of the Clements Library, University
                            of 
                                Michigan
                            , 1954–1977, for suggesting the connection between Dr. Malthus A.
                            Ward and Rafinesque; and to Charles Boewe, presently a research associate of the Filson
                            Club, for sharing his vast knowledge of Rafinesque and the Walam Olum.
                  
                     1 Glenn A. Black, Eli Lilly, Georg K. Neumann, Joe E. Pierce, Carl F.
                            Voegelin, Erminie W. Voegelin, and Paul Weer, Walam Olum, or Red Score: The
                                Migration Legend of the Lenni Lenape or 
                                    Delaware
                                 Indians; A New Translation, Interpreted by Linguistic, Historical,
                                Archaeological, Ethnological, and Physical Anthropological Studies (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954); cited hereafter as Walam Olum.
                  
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXII (June, 1986). © 1986, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     "inexplicable," but after moving to 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1826 he mastered the 
                        Delaware
                     language, translated the Walam Olum into English, and published his work under the
                    title The American Nations in 1836.2
            
            One of the collaborators in the Indiana Historical Society project, the late Paul Weer, assumed the
                    task of writing a history of the Walam Olum and investigating the relationship between Rafinesque
                    and Ward. He succeeded in tracing Rafinesque's manuscript through various hands to its
                    present location in the University Museum at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Weer, however, considered the history of the Walam Olum after 1822 "of
                    secondary importance to the documentation of the transfer of the original painted records from the
                    Lenape through Dr. Ward to Rafinesque." After intensive research into secondary and primary
                    sources, Weer was unable to locate any doctor named Ward in Indiana prior to 1870. In fact, the only
                    Dr. Ward who lived near Indiana was Dr. John Russell Ward, a resident of the 
                        Lexington
                     vicinity from 1808 to 1829, who died in 
                        Missouri
                     in 1834. Family tradition conveyed "the impression that the doctor was a
                    friend of Rafinesque," but information concerning his education, medical training, and
                    interests which might link him to Rafinesque could not be found. Weer, therefore, concluded that
                    whether he was the correct Ward could "only be a guess."3 It
                    must be added, moreover, that Rafinesque's Dr. Ward was a Hoosier not a Kentuckian, and
                    there is no evidence that Dr. John Russell Ward ever lived in Indiana or even visited there.
            Unknown to Weer, however, there was a Dr. Ward living on the White River in
                    Indiana in 1820. His full name was Dr. Malthus A. Ward, and his early years and subsequent career
                    make him a serious contender for the honor of being the first white man to possess the Walam Olum
                    and the man who gave these artifacts to Rafinesque. He was born in 
                        Haverhill
                    , 
                        New Hampshire
                    , in 1794. After studying under a local physician and attending the Medical Institution
                    at Dartmouth College, he settled in Kittanning, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1815, then moved to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1816. In 1819 he moved to Hindostan, a pioneer Indiana village situated on the east
                    fork of the White River near the contemporary town of Shoals, in 
                        Martin County
                    . Ward's lengthy and 
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., ix-x; Constatine S. Rafinesque, The American
                            Nations … (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1836), 122, 151, 248. For a recent biography of Rafinesque, see Thomas
                            Jefferson Fitzpatrick, Rafinesque: A Sketch of His Life with Bibliography,
                            introduction and a revised and corrected bibliography by Charles Boewe (Weston, Mass.,
                            1982).
                  
                     3
                            Walam Olum, 243–65.
               
                     detailed letters written during this period reveal his interest
                    and erudition in both botany and natural history. His interests in these two sciences developed
                    during his student days from 1812 to 1814 at 
                        Middlebury
                     College, 
                  Middlebury, Vermont
               , where he attended the lectures of the
                    illustrious Frederick Hall, a professor of natural philosophy whose avocations included natural
                        history.4
            
            After returning to New 
                        England
                     from Indiana, probably in late 1822, and earning an M.D. degree at the Medical School
                    of 
                        Maine
                     in 1823, Dr. Ward settled in 
                  Salem,
                            Massachusetts
               , where he divided his time
                    between his medical practice and his botanical and natural history interests. He gave popular
                    lectures on chemistry and botany, donated his time to strengthening the scientific holdings of the 
                        Salem
                     Athenaeum, and helped found the local lyceum where he delivered talks on gardening and
                    natural history. As superintendent of the East 
                        India
                     Marine Museum—which contained "curiosities" from beyond
                    the Cape of Good Hope and Cape Horn—he systemized the exhibits and prepared a catalogue
                    of its holdings. He also participated in the establishment of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Horticultural Society and became its first professor of botany and vegetable
                        physiology.5
            
            Dr. Ward's reputation won him an appointment to the new position of professor of natural
                    history at the University of 
                        Georgia
                     in 1832. Besides teaching courses in botany, minerology, geology, chemistry, and
                    history, he began a minerological and geological cabinet and developed the University Botanical
                    Garden. After resigning his teaching position he concentrated on horticulture by operating a
                    commercial nursery, adapting various fruits to the local area, helping organize the state
                    horticultural and pomological societies, and exchanging seeds and plants with prominent botanists
                    such as Andrew Jackson Downing and John Torrey. According to his obituary, he contributed
                    "freely but … anonymously" to scientific journals; however, only one of
                    his publications can be identified. After his death in 1863 he was remembered as "one of
                    the best practical botanists" of the South 
                  
                     4 William Barlow and David O. Powell, "The Early Life of a
                            University of 
                                Georgia
                             Professor: Malthus A. Ward, M.D., 1794–1831," 
                        
                                    Atlanta
                                 Historical Journal, XXII (Fall-Winter, 1978), 68–71; idem., "Frontier Medicine and Life: Kittanning, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , in 1815 and 1816," Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Historical Magazine, LXI (January, 1978), 17–30; idem., "Malthus A. Ward, Frontier Physician,
                            1815–1823," Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied
                                Sciences, XXXII (July, 1977), 280–291; idem.,
                            "Malthus Augustus Whitworth Ward," in Kenneth Coleman and Charles Stephen
                            Gurr, eds., Dictionary of 
                                    Georgia
                                 Biography (2 vols., 
                                Athens
                            , Ga., 1983), II, 1033–1035.
                  
                     5 See note 4 above.
               
                    
                    
                  CONSTANTINE S. RAFINESQUE, 1783–1840
                  Courtesy of Transylvania University, 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     .
                  Rafinesque undertook the task of translating the Walam Olum after he left 
                                Kentucky
                             to live in 
                                Philadelphia
                            . With the help of two other men and a Lenape-English dictionary written by
                            Moravian missionaries, Rafinesque completed his translation in 1833. The two illustrations
                            on the facing page were taken from the manuscript of Rafinesque's translation. Each
                            of them shows a 
                                Delaware
                             pictograph, the meaning of the pictograph expressed in the words of the 
                                Delaware
                             language, and Rafinesque's translation of the 
                                Delaware
                             words into English. The translations printed below each illustration and the
                            illustrations themselves were taken from Walam Olum, 68–69.
                            They are reproduced here by courtesy of the Indiana Historical Society.
               
                    
                    
                  "All of them said they would go together to the land there, all who were
                            free…"
               
                    
                  "… the Northerners were of one mind and the Easterners were of one mind:
                            it would be good to live on the other side of the frozen water."
               
                     who "did more to introduce and disseminate fruits and
                    flowers than anyone in the state" as well as one "who pursued the science of
                    natural history with a quiet enthusiasm that conducted him to wide attainments in that
                        department."6
            
            This brief sketch of Ward's career suggests that he was no ordinary frontier doctor. If he
                    received the Walam Olum from the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians in Indiana in 1820, he would have recognized the importance of transferring it
                    to Rafinesque, who, in Weer's words, "was the most qualified individual then in
                    the Ohio Valley to appreciate its value."7
            
            Although Dr. Ward never mentioned Rafinesque in either his letters or his manuscript notes, the
                    celebrated botanist repeatedly referred to a Dr. Ward of Indiana as a collaborator. For example, in
                    regard to certain plant specimens, he wrote, "They were chiefly discovered in 1818, or
                    given me since by … Dr. Ward." In regard to the Lophactis, he
                    wrote: "I noticed in 1818 this plant on the 
                        Wabash
                    , but out of blossom; in 1821 Dr. Ward brought me a perfect specimen from White R.
                    Indiana." In addition, he included Ward among the "Professors and
                    Doctors" who have "added to my N. Amer. herbals" and named a variety of
                    Saint-John's-wort "Hypericum wardianum." Finally, in
                    1836 he described Ward as one of his botanical "friends and assistants," a
                    collector rather than a writer, from whom "I have received much help by gifts or exchanges
                    of specimens, new facts and observations."8
            
            Unfortunately, there is no definite proof that Malthus A. Ward was the Dr. Ward to whom Rafinesque
                    referred or from whom he obtained the Walam Olum. Circumstantial evidence, 
                  
                     6 See note 4 above. The only one of Ward's publications which
                            can be identified is a speech he gave before the 
                                Massachusetts
                             Horticultural Society in 1831 which was published by that organization and
                            reprinted in the New 
                                    England
                                 Farmer and Horticultural Journal.
                  
                  
                     7
                            Walam Olum, 250.
                  
                     8 Manuscript notes, Rafinesque Papers (American Philosophical Society, 
                                Philadelphia
                            ); Constantine S. Rafinesque, "111. On 12 N[ew]. S[pecies]. of Plants
                            from 
                                Illinois
                            , &c.," Atlantic Journal and Friend of
                            Knowledge, I (Winter, 1832), 149; idem., "114. Lophactis
                            N[ew]. G[enus].," ibid., 152; idem.,
                            "Account of the Botanical Collections of Professor C. S. Rafinesque," ibid. (Spring, 1833), 167; idem., New Flora and Botany of
                                North America … (4 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 11836–1838]), II, 8–9; Walam Olum,
                            261–262. Each of the four volumes of New Flora give 1836 as the
                            date of publication on their respective title pages. The dates of 1836–1838 used
                            here are taken from a 1907 study of the publication dates of New Flora and
                                Flora Telluriana. See John Hendley Barnhart, "The Dates of
                            Rafinesque's New Flora and Flora Telluriana," Torreya,
                            VII (September, 1907), 177–182. The Lophactis quotation is
                            taken from a manuscript in the Rafinesque Papers. When Rafinesque's manuscript was
                            published in the Atlantic Journal the Lophactis
                            quotation was set incorrectly and thus reads differently than what Rafinesque actually
                            wrote. See Walam Olum, 262.
               
                     however, indicates that he was. He left 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1819 and probably arrived in Indiana the same year. In 1821 he delivered the Fourth
                    of July oration in Hindostan in which he describes local events of the previous year, and in
                    February, 1822, he received $6.00 from the town clerk for unspecified services.9 Since he was certainly in Hindostan in 1820, perhaps he was on a botanizing
                    excursion to the northeast on the main branch of the White River where all of
                    the 
                        Delaware
                     towns were located and obtained the sticks there; or, perhaps he performed his curious
                    cure on a member of one of the bands of 
                        Delaware
                     who were then migrating from Indiana and obtained the sticks from them in the vicinity
                    of Hindostan. Either is possible. Ward's documented residence in Indiana proves that he was
                    in the right location at the right time to acquire the Walam Olum in 1820 and to transfer it to
                    Rafinesque in 1822. That Rafinesque received a plant specimen from the White
                    River in 1821 from Dr. Ward also lends credence to the conclusion that Malthus A. Ward
                    was the person in question.
            Although no documentary evidence exists, it is likely that Rafinesque and Ward became acquainted in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . While Ward was practicing medicine there from 1816 to 1819, Rafinesque visited three
                    times: in the summer of 1818, the fall of 1818, and the early summer of 1819.10
                    Since it is clear from Rafinesque's "A Life of Travels" that he sought
                    out prominent figures wherever he went, it is plausible that he would have wanted to meet
                    Ward's medical partner, Dr. Felix Brunot, who was a foster brother of the Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                    . Also, since Ward had forsaken Kittanning for metropolitan 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in order to find a more intellectual environment, it is inconceivable that the neophyte
                    natural historian would not have wanted to pick the brain of the famous Rafinesque, as he had the
                    members of the Yellowstone Expedition which halted briefly in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1819.11 It is even possible that Ward accompanied Rafinesque
                    when he traveled to 
                        Lexington
                     to assume his teaching post at Transylvania. Rafinesque departed 
                        Philadelphia
                     in May, 1819, stopped 
                  
                     9 Malthus A. Ward, "An Oration, Pronounced at Hindostan,
                            Martin, Co. (I[ndian]a) on the 45th Anniversary of American Independence," edited
                            by William Barlow and David O. Powell, Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIV
                            (June, 1978), 135–45.
                  
                     10 Constantine S. Rafinesque, "A Life of Travels,"
                            introduction by Elmer D. Merrill, critical index by Francis W. Pennell, Chronica Botanica, VIII (August, 1944), 317, 319.
                  
                     11 Ibid., 315–16, passim; Charles L.
                            Slattery, Felix Revielle Brunot, 1820–1898 … (
                                New York
                            , 1911), 3–4; Malthus A. Ward to Ezra Bartlett, February 2, 1818, May
                            24, 1819, Bartlett Family Papers (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
               
                     in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , "went down the 
                        Ohio
                     in a keel boat," and began his lectures at the University in the fall. Ward,
                    according to his Day Book, was on a boat on the Ohio River in June, 1819, but
                    is silent as to his destination.12 Even if the two did not make the trip
                    together it is possible that they knew each other in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     before they migrated west to Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            While many of the known facts about Malthus A. Ward's life tend to support the tentative
                    conclusion that he was the Dr. Ward from whom Rafinesque received the Walam Olum, one major problem
                    exists. Ward did not die until 1863. Yet, in an 1836 work Rafinesque refers to "the late
                    Dr. Ward" and in an 1837 work, includes him among botanists "who have fallen
                    victim to their zeal in arduous travels, or from diseases contracted by their labors."13 However, there are two possible explanations which may reconcile the apparent
                    contradictions of the evidence. One is that Rafinesque actually believed that his old friend had
                    died. After Ward began his duties at the University of 
                        Georgia
                     he became an infrequent correspondent because of numerous burdens and responsibilities.
                    In 1832, when he was elected to the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , he explained to Dr. Samuel G. Norton, secretary of that prestigious science
                    organization, that his "time and attention" were "so employed by the
                    duties of my situation" that he had "absolutely no
                        time."14 If Ward stopped writing to Rafinesque in the early 1830s,
                    the latter may have concluded that he had died. The second explanation is that Rafinesque may have
                    been referring to two different Dr. Wards. Significantly, his remarks were made in two separate
                    publications. The one placing Dr. Ward among the botanists "who have fallen
                    victims" appeared in his New Flora and Botany of North America and
                    perhaps alluded to Dr. John Russell Ward who died in 
                        Missouri
                     in 1834. The other—"the late Dr. Ward"—appeared
                    in his The American Nations. Recognizing that this was the first published
                    translation of the Walam Olum and that Dr. Malthus A. Ward had provided the painted sticks,
                    Rafinesque 
                  
                     12 Rafinesque, "A Life of Travels," 319; Constantine
                            S. Rafinesque to Zaccheus Collins, September 25, 1819, December 1, 1819, Rafinesque Papers;
                            Malthus A. Ward, Day Book, 1822, Ward Papers (University of 
                                Georgia
                             Library, 
                                Athens
                            , Ga.).
                  
                     13 Rafinesque, The American Nations, 122; idem., New Flora and Botany, II, 13. Although volume two of New Flora gives 1836 as the date of publication on its title page, it was actually
                            published in 1837. See Barnhart, "Dates of Rafinesque's New
                            Flora," 180–81.
                  
                     14 Ward to Samuel G. Norton, May 7, 1832, Correspondence of the
                            Secretary, Letter & Memorandum Book, III (Academy of Natural Sciences of
                                    
                        Philadelphia, Philadelphia
                     ).
               
                     may not have meant that his benefactor had died but simply that
                    he had left Indiana.15
            
            Who was "the late Dr. Ward of Indiana?" If more of Malthus Ward's letters
                    had survived that question could probably be answered definitively. Nevertheless, although
                    conclusive proof is lacking, circumstantial evidence points to Dr. Malthus A. Ward as the source of
                    Rafinesque's Walam Olum.
            
               
                  15 Dr. Charles Boewe has suggested that Rafinesque, whose native tongue
                        was French, frequently used "late" in English in instances where one whose
                        native tongue was English would write "earlier," "previous,"
                        or "former." For example, in "A Life of Travels" he writes:
                        "I met here Mr. Ismar lately from Mexico … "; and
                        "Meantime wishing to spread some of my late labors, I issued this year two
                        pamphlets…." Rafinesque, "A Life of Travels,"
                        331–32; Charles Boewe to David O. Powell, May 28, 1985.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Hoosier Politician: Officeholding and Political Culture in Indiana,
                        1896–1920. By Philip R. VanderMeer. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xii, 256. Notes, tables, illustrations, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $19.95.)
            In his first chapter, Philip R. VanderMeer sketches the broad contours of the Indiana political scene
                    during the years 1896–1920: the close balance between Republican and Democratic parties;
                    the continued strength of party identification and loyalties; the existence of elaborate and strong
                    party organizations; and a high level of voter participation. In the fourth chapter, he analyzes the
                    institutional functioning of the General Assembly. But the work's major focus is a
                    collective biography of the 1,127 men who served in that body during the period as a means of
                    illuminating the state's "political culture—the complex of political
                    values in a society and the prevailing attitudes toward political institutions" (p. 2).
            
               From Frank McKinney Hubbard, A Collection of Indiana Lawmakers and Lobbyists (
                            Indianapolis
                        , [1903]).
            
            VanderMeer deserves praise for his labors in compiling biographical data about a host of mostly
                    obscure individuals from the multitude of sources described in detail in the appendix. He is
                    similarly to be congratulated for the sophistication displayed in testing the different variables
                    examined. At times the mass of detail threatens to inundate the reader, but the overall picture is
                    reasonably clear. Generally speaking, the members of the General Assembly came from families of
                    "moderate or middling" status (p. 54) and were upwardly mobile personally but
                    nevertheless remained mostly "of moderate means" (p. 62). They had achieved local
                    prominence partly through long residence and/or associational involvements, but, most importantly,
                    because they were employed in "brokerage" 
                    occupations (lawyer, doctor, merchant) involving extensive direct contact with people. There was no
                    significant difference between Republicans and Democrats in age, social and economic background, or
                    even occupational distribution. Ethnicity in the broad sense—that is, including regional
                    subcultures within the 
                        United States
                    —was a significant differentiating variable, although VanderMeer shows that
                    southern family roots did not automatically translate into Democratic allegiance. The most important
                    factor distinguishing opposing party adherents, however, was religious affiliation. While VanderMeer
                    faults the pietist/liturgical distinction so popular in ethnocultural analyses of political behavior
                    as too simple, the basic line of cleavage in his own more complex schemata remains differing
                    attitudes on the role government should play in regulating personal behavior.
            More problematic are the generalizations about the larger political culture that VanderMeer draws
                    from his data. Most members of the General Assembly served only a single term; the evidence
                    indicates that many did so reluctantly out of a sense of duty to party and community; few before or
                    after held another public office above the local or county level. VanderMeer concludes that the
                    Indiana political ethos remained committed to the "citizen politician" (p. 198)
                    along with the corollary principle of rotation in office. A look at the Hoosier congressional
                    delegation of the time, however, would appear to raise questions about this conclusion. For the
                    Republicans, James A. Hemenway won six consecutive elections to the House of Representatives before
                    going on to the Senate; Edgar D. Crumpacker had eight consecutive terms until defeated for
                    reelection; and James E. Watson was elected in 1894, was defeated for renomination two years later,
                    then came back to serve five consecutive terms before running unsuccessfully for governor, and went
                    on to serve sixteen years in the Senate. On the Democratic side, Francis M. Griffith was first
                    elected to the House in 1897 to fill the vacancy left by the incumbent's death and was
                    reelected for three successive terms before retiring, while James M. Robinson served four
                    consecutive terms before being defeated for reelection. All that the brief tenure of members of the
                    General Assembly shows, therefore, is that politically ambitious men did not regard service in that
                    body as a way of gaining power and influence. Why they so viewed the General Assembly requires
                    fuller information about its place in the Indiana political system and governmental structure than
                    VanderMeer supplies.
            The most suggestive aspect of the work is VanderMeer's attempt to place his findings for the
                    1896–1920 period in a longer-term  historical
                    perspective. He denies that the 1890s marked a sharp break in Indiana's political
                    development. He does see evidence by 1920 of a trend toward increased representation along
                    functional lines (union members among the Democrats, persons linked to industry among the
                    Republicans), toward more professionalization (e.g., a growing cadre of experienced lawmakers and
                    the institutionalization of leadership positions in the General Assembly), and toward basing
                    decision making upon uniform and rational standards. Even by that date, however, this process of
                    what may be called political modernization was no more than partially complete. He rightly ascribes
                    these developments to long-term social, economic, and demographic changes. But he unfortunately
                    fails to carry his explanation much beyond allusion to the familiar shibboleths of industrialization
                    and urbanization.
            Perhaps the most important question is how typical was Indiana. VanderMeer indicates that there were
                    similarities between Indiana and the band of states stretching from 
                        Delaware
                     through the Ohio Valley and as far west as 
                        Colorado
                    . Much further research, however, will be required before a firm conclusion is possible.
            
               University of 
                            Nebraska
                        , Lincoln John Braeman
         
         
            
               U.S. 40: A Roadscape of the American Experience. By Thomas J. Schlereth. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1985. Pp. viii, 150. Maps, illustrations, figures,
                    selected resources. Paperbound, $13.95.)
            Thomas J. Schlereth has written a history of the U.S. 40 roadscape in its historical evolution from a
                    portion of the National Road (constructed 1827–1839), through its diminished importance
                    as a competitor with railroads, its revival as a major highway in the auto age
                    (1925–1960), and finally in its current diminished status as a road parallel to
                    Interstate 70. For each of these eras, he analyzes the changing landscape of this major
                    transportation corridor. Schlereth emphasizes changes in the road itself (and accompanying
                    structures such as bridges and utilities) and in roadside buildings. For example, concerning
                    transient housing he writes about roadside inns for the National Road era, railroad hotels (often
                    off U.S. 40 itself) for the next period, motor courts and camps in the U.S. 40 period, and motels
                    for the interstate era.
            Clearly the book's greatest virtue is its 146 maps, diagrams, and photographs which
                    magnificently illustrate the U.S. 40 roadscape. Many of the photos, apparently commissioned for this
                        
                    
                  
                            HIGHWAY SIGNS ABOVE U.S. 40 ON THE WEST SIDE OF TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA
                     
                        
                  Courtesy of the Indiana Historical Society-Seldon Bradley.
                work to show U.S. 40's recent history, were taken by Seldon Bradley. There is a
                    useful general history of U.S. 40 in the context of the history of American roads and road systems
                    with special attention to popular and commercial architecture. The bibliographical essay provides a
                    useful survey of the literature on both subjects.
            Professional historians, geographers and preservationists will not find this book of much value.
                    Schlereth uses an ill-defined concept, "above ground archaeology," as an
                    organizing concept. It seems to lack the precision one associates with archaeology. There is almost
                    no primary research, either historical or geographical. U.S. 40 is almost purely
                    about engineering structures, roads, or buildings. There is little about the people who used them.
                    Sections dealing with railroads, bicycles, and inter-urbans are skimpy. Maddeningly, there is no
                    index, a surprise in an otherwise beautifully produced book. Schlereth has written a valuable book
                    for the general reader who wants to know more about the history of roads and popular architecture,
                    especially the U.S. 40 corridor. Other readers may well be disappointed.
            
               Northeastern University, 
                            Boston
                        
               
                    
                        Clay
                     McShane
         
         
         
            
               Alice 
                            Hamilton
                        : A Life in Letters. Edited by Barbara Sicherman. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1984. Pp. xiv, 460. Illustrations, notes, sources, index.
                    $25.00.)
            Dr. Alice Hamilton was an extraordinary person whose accomplishments in the field of industrial
                    medicine in the first half of the twentieth century have generally been recognized. But surprisingly
                    little attention has been given to her equally extraordinary career outside medicine in the arenas
                    of social welfare, the peace movement of World War I and the 1920s, postwar socialism, and the Cold
                    War. Still less attention has been given to Alice 
                        Hamilton
                     as a person.
            Her autobiography, Exploring The Dangerous Trades (1943), has until now been the
                    only published source for understanding this remarkable woman. But this self-effacing work tells
                    little about the person and shields us from her other endeavors. Barbara Sicherman's
                    collection of Dr. Hamilton's letters does much to remedy these omissions and introduces us
                    to the profound richness of 
                        Hamilton
                    's century-long life.
            Sicherman's book is not a complete collection of the letters of Alice 
                        Hamilton
                    : only 132 of her more than 1,300 extant letters, written over a period of 76 years, are
                    published. Specialists in the various movements in which 
                        Hamilton
                     became closely involved will be disappointed at having only a sampling, but Sicherman
                    has sought to produce "a readable volume rather than a definitive textual
                    edition." In this she has been quite successful, and if her purpose was also to encourage
                    renewed studies into Alice 
                        Hamilton
                     (and her extraordinary kin) she has succeeded in this, too.
            Each of the carefully selected letters is complete. They are grouped according to chronological
                    periods in her life and illustrate the principal themes of her endeavors. Sicherman gives pertinent
                    sections of other letters when they illuminate or help in making a transition. Among the most
                    interesting are the letters touching on 
                        Hamilton
                    's medical training in the 1890s, her years at Jane Addams's Hull
                    House (1897–1907), her first struggles with the previously unknown "science of
                    industrial medicine," and her tenure as 
                        Harvard
                     Medical School's first female faculty member (1919–1927).
            Raised in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     as but one of a host of precocious Hamiltons descended from 
                        Dearborn County
                    's Emmerine Holman and 
                        Allen County
                    's first sheriff, Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    , Alice was the sister of the famed classicist Edith 
                        Hamilton
                     and the cousin (and lifelong confidant) of social activist Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                    . Alice, like others of the clan in the "
                        Hamilton
                     compound" in Fort 
                    
                  
                            ALICE HAMILTON, 1869–1970
                        
                  Courtesy of the 
                                Allen County
                            -Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Historical Society.
               
                    
                        Wayne
                    , was tutored at home until she could be sent east. In 1890 Alice studied at the
                    "third-rate" Fort 
                        Wayne
                     College of Medicine but soon entered the first-rate program at the medical department
                    of the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , from which she graduated with an M.D. in 1894.
            The early letters, from 1890 to 1919 (nos. 1–59) illustrate Alice's attraction to
                    science and her equally deep compulsion to throw herself into social reform. Hers is a superb and
                    intimately drawn example of that first great generation of college women who were to contribute to
                    so many varied fields.
            Never able to reconcile herself wholly to the ward and the clinic, even through her social service
                    opportunities at Hull House, 
                        Hamilton
                     was drawn at last to combine her skills as a laboratory scientist with her compassion
                    for social reform as a  member of the 
                        Illinois
                     Commission on Occupational Diseases. Here she began the long process of giving form to
                    her unique profession, industrial medicine, though it was not until 1915, while in her forties, that
                    she admitted she had at last found her vocation (p. 180).
            A proven and respected scientist firmly committed to social reform, with a compelling style marked by
                    her belief in the powers of persuasion instead of confrontation, 
                        Hamilton
                     had become an international figure by the end of World War I. The letters of the last
                    half of her life, 1919–1969 (nos. 60–132) are most stirring when they touch on
                    the petulant treatment she suffered in the presence of her (all male) colleagues at 
                        Harvard
                     and in her replies to being labeled a subversive in the McCarthy era.
            The selected letters in this edition are engagingly tied together by Sicherman in succinct,
                    informative commentaries, which often include information and some text from the unpublished
                    letters. The short essay that serves as a bibliography is strictly limited to works by and about
                    Alice 
                        Hamilton
                    ; other works used by Sicherman must be gleaned from the separate pages of notes.
            Sicherman has provided an enduring portrait of one of the twentieth century's most important
                    reformers and one of Indiana's most brilliant figures. What is especially attractive in
                    this book is that the portrait is created very largely by the subject herself.
            
               
                  
                            Allen County
                        -Fort 
                            Wayne
                         Michael Historical Society, Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                C. Hawfield
         
         
            
               The Great Father: The 
                            United States
                         Government and the American Indians. 2 volumes. By Francis Paul Prucha.
                    (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xxxii, 1302. Notes, maps, tables, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $60.00.)
            There is much to admire in this well ordered, heavily documented culmination of Francis Paul
                    Prucha's years of research upon the 
                        United States
                     government's relations with Indians. Subsuming his own numerous works on
                    various aspects and periods up to 1912, Prucha "boldly" (his own, quite accurate
                    assessment) carries the study to 1980, notwithstanding the paucity of accessible materials on many
                    aspects of twentieth-century Indian affairs.
            The result is an analytical chronology, managed by topical treatment within periods, which is
                    probably the only way to impose order upon such a welter of complexities and contradictions  as comprise the record of the 
                        United States
                     government's treatment of Indians. The selective bibliographical essay and
                    detailed critical citations in the footnotes add up to an extraordinarily useful assessment of key
                    documentary resources and pertinent secondary works. Those seeking greater detail are directed to
                    the bibliographies on Indian-white relations that Prucha published in 1977 and 1982.
            The daunting mass of the work, combined with its obvious usefulness as a source of both chronology
                    and bibliography, may result in its being used almost entirely as a reference work. That would be a
                    pity, since much of its value lies in the judicious continuity of Prucha's argumentation
                    from beginning to end. Happily, his style is concise, readable, and often provocative. Informed
                    readers may well find themselves spurred to vigorous debate with the author—that
                    interactive process which is reading at its most rewarding. Prucha's finding of greater
                    fundamental unity and continuity in the "Great Father's" performance than
                    he had expected assorts oddly with the facts that he marshals. Scholars particularly concerned with
                    Indian history will surely be dismayed to find the Indian dimension largely missing from the work.
                    But Prucha's specific focus is the course of policy and administration, which generally
                    have been so divorced from Indian actualities as to lend his approach a discomfiting realism.
            Prucha has constructed an important segment of the history of the 
                        United States
                     government and the Indians, a step necessary but not sufficient for balanced
                    comprehension of the whole. The magnitude of his accomplishment underscores the challenge of
                    constructing the multifarious Indian dimensions of the story and analyzing the interaction of the
                    dominant majority and Indians in terms of all the disparate cultures involved.
            
               Austin, 
                            Texas
                        
                Elizabeth A. H. John
         
         
            
               Drink and Disorder: Temperance Reform in 
                            Cincinnati
                         from the Washingtonian Revival to the WCTU. By Jed Dannenbaum. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xii, 245. Notes, tables, illustrations, figures, appendix, index.
                    $22.50.)
            Jed Dannenbaum's is the first full-length study of the temperance movement in the antebellum
                    Midwest. His aim is to explain "the grass-roots appeal" of the movement in 
                        Cincinnati
                     through its three major phases (essentially ignoring pre-1840 organizations): (1) the
                    Washingtonian and Sons of Temperance organizations; (2) the campaigns for prohibition, including
                    licensing struggles and the 
                        Maine
                     Law drives; and (3) the women's crusade of 1873–1874 and the
                    formation of WCTU.
            
            While the book has some strengths, it also has two serious failings. First, Dannenbaum consistently
                    fails to put his findings on 
                        Cincinnati
                     in a larger context; though his footnotes cite relevant studies of other cities, the
                    author rarely offers a judgment about how the 
                        Cincinnati
                     experience compares with that of other American cities. Second, for a scholar who
                    claims to be interested in "grass-roots appeal," Dannenbaum is remarkably
                    incurious about who was attracted to the movement in its various stages. He does
                    not seem to know any of the supporters very well—even the few he mentions by name, like
                    Samuel Gary and Abby Fisher Leavitt.
            His lack of acquaintance with his protagonists is most notable in his treatment of the Washingtonians
                    and the Sons of Temperance. He offers only a brief study of one hundred sixty-four of the several
                    thousand Sons of Temperance whose names, addresses, and occupations he found in city directories. He
                    tells us they moved frequently (like nearly everbody else) and that they were artisans and
                    middle-class men. He speculates that they were motivated by desires for self-improvement and need
                    for companionship, since they moved frequently. Since he does not ask about place of birth,
                    religion, or age, it is difficult to compare his results with those of Robert Hampel in his study of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Sons in Temperance and Prohibition in 
                            Massachusetts
                        , 1813–1852 (1982).
            Dannenbaum seems to be no better acquainted with temperance supporters in the second phase of the
                    movement, the political struggle for prohibition in the 1850s; but, since his real interest in this
                    section is the dramatic realignment of voters into new parties, often only tangentially related to
                    temperance issues, the omission of temperance people is less glaring. Dannenbaum shows the politics
                    of nativism and anti-Catholicism in a city of immigrants lucidly and with multiple regression
                    analysis of two key elections in 1853. Unsurprisingly, he concludes that with 26 percent of 
                        Cincinnati
                    's population being German and another 12 percent Irish, and with brewing and
                    distilling being major local industries, prohibition never had a chance. However 
                        Cincinnati
                     antebellum prohibitionists may have started out, they appear to have ended up bitterly
                    nativist.
            While Dannenbaum is no more interested in identifying women temperance supporters than he was the
                    men, his analysis of the role of women in the movement and especially the forces that created the 
                        Ohio
                     women's crusade winter of 1873–1874 is thoughtful and plausible.
                    Dannenbaum concludes that temperance women were driven to confrontational tactics by the failures of
                    political temperance and by events that persuaded them their backs were to the wall.
            
            Despite its unevenness and disappointments, Drink and Disorder is a useful addition
                    to the new temperance scholarship. Though Ian Tyrell's Sobering Up (1979)
                    is a more persuasive book, his model of the progressive prohibitionist is certainly challenged by
                    Dannenbaum's Know-Nothing temperance supporters in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Maybe the temperance movement was different in the Midwest.
            
               
                  
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind. Lana Ruegamer
         
         
            
               Into the Wilderness with the Army of the Potomac. By Robert Garth Scott. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xv, 236. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $17.95.)
            "Never in recorded military history has there been a battle quite like the one fought in the
                    Wilderness of northern 
                        Virginia
                     on May 5–6, 1864," claims Robert Garth Scott as he introduces a
                    very readable account of that confusing, bloody struggle (p. xiii). More than anything else, says
                    Scott, it was the terrain that made the fight unique. Without question the mass of second-growth
                    timber known as the Wilderness did often make command control difficult and sometimes impossible,
                    with entire brigades groping through the woods, losing all organization and direction.
            The general outlines of the battle, perplexing to all except dedicated Civil War enthusiasts, are
                    well delineated. The Army of the Potomac, commanded by George G. Meade, outnumbered the Army of
                    Northern 
                        Virginia
                    , led by Robert E. Lee, by two-to-one. Nevertheless, the rank and file of the Federal
                    army hardly seemed optimistic as they crossed the Rapidan River and headed
                    south into the Wilderness. Many anticipated that the Confederate forces would once again send them
                    back in defeat. But this time the new general-in-chief of all the Union forces, U. S. Grant, rode
                    with the Army of the Potomac and he had decided on a different strategy.
            All Federal armies were to act in concert with one another. W. T. Sherman would lead another major
                    Yankee force against the Rebel Army of 
                        Tennessee
                     in north 
                        Georgia
                    , while Franz Sigel pressed up the Shenandoah Valley and Benjamin 
                        Butler
                     approached 
                        Richmond
                     from the southeast. Grant was determined to apply pressure simultaneously and
                    unrelentingly on all these fronts until the outmanned Confederacy would finally collapse.
            The first great battle of 1864 was joined when the left wing of the Confederate army collided with
                    the Federal right center in the midst of the Wilderness. The fight escalated in a largely
                    uncoordinated manner, ultimately becoming a series of separate 
                    engagements spread over a five-mile front. For two days the struggle raged, becoming more horrible
                    and confusing as the woods caught fire.
            The Federals had suffered more than 17,000 casualties when the battle was over, the Confederates less
                    than half that number. Yet Grant was confident his plans to apply continual pressure would work. At
                    once, in spite of the casualties, he ordered another turning movement, attempting to slip around the
                    Rebel right flank. The campaign that would finally end at 
                        Appomattox
                     had begun with one of the war's most terrible battles.
            Scott's narrative is sure to be compared with Clifford Dowdey's study of the
                    Wilderness in Lee's Last Campaign, a 1960 publication. Scott's
                    account is almost exactly the same length as that portion of Dowdey's book which deals with
                    the Wilderness, and on major points of battle interpretation there are no significant differences.
                    Dowdey, however, gave more attention to Lee and was less favorable to Grant than is Scott, and
                    Dowdey was less concerned with the common soldier than Scott, who enlivens his acccount with a
                    number of fascinating recollections from the men of both armies. Anyone seriously interested in the
                    Battle of the Wilderness should read both books.
            
               David Lipscomb College, 
                            Nashville
                        
                James Lee McDonough
         
         
            
               Phil Sheridan and His Army. By Paul Andrew Hutton. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xvi, 479. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $14.95.)
            Along with Ulysses S. Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman, Philip Henry Sheridan is best remembered as
                    part of the terrible trio of Union generals which smashed the Confederacy in the final year of the
                    Civil War. Yet Sheridan's military career lasted for another twenty-three years after 
                        Appomattox
                    , and as Paul Andrew Hutton demonstrates in a thoroughly researched and judiciously
                    written study, Sheridan continued to serve his country with energy, ruthlessness, and success.
            Hutton has produced the first comprehensive account of Sheridan's life after the Civil War.
                    From 1867 until 1883 Sheridan was America's preeminent Indian fighter. He planned and
                    directed the Army's greatest Indian campaigns of the nineteenth century, including the
                        Red River War (1874–1875) and the Sioux War (1876). Under
                    Sheridan's supervision a few thousand troopers broke the power of the Plains tribes and
                    brought an end to centuries of warfare between red men and white. Despite his importance as an agent
                    in America's expansion, Sheridan was  frequently called
                    away from the frontier for special political and diplomatic missions, such as opposing Democratic
                    "Redeemers" in Reconstruction 
                        Louisiana
                     and touring Europe to observe the Franco-Prussian War. In 1883 Sheridan became the
                    Army's commanding general, a position he occupied until his premature death from heart and
                    liver failure five years later.
            Avoiding the biographer's most common pitfall—hero worship—Hutton has
                    produced an admirably objective portrait of Phil Sheridan. Sheridan emerges as a modern soldier who
                    realized war was a matter of destroying enemy armies and terrorizing enemy civilians. He was a man
                    who remained blindly loyal to his friends and dealt mercilessly with his foes. Though a devoted
                    patriot Sheridan's elastic ethics made him a willing tool for the Republican party and
                    Gilded Age business interests.
            The fact that Sheridan left few personal papers did not handicap his biographer. Hutton captured his
                    subject's personality by detailing the relationships Sheridan enjoyed with his leading
                    subordinates. Phil Sheridan and His Army is studded with brilliant character
                    sketches of such fascinating figures as George Custer, George Crook, Ranald Mackenzie, Benjamin
                    Grierson, and Buffalo Bill Cody.
            Hutton's major failing is his neglect of the enlisted men who composed the bulk of
                    Sheridan's Army. Nevertheless, this minor omission detracts very little from the
                    book's overall merit. Phil Sheridan and His Army is a solid contribution
                    to the study of American military history, the West, and the Indian wars. It offers a blend of
                    scholarship and readability which should prove appealing to a broad audience.
            
               University of Central 
                            Arkansas
                        , Conway Gregory J. W. Urwin
         
         
            
               From Peasants to Farmers: The Migration from Balestrand, Norway, to the Upper Middle
                        West. By Jon Gjerde. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1985. Pp. xiv, 319. Maps, tables, illustrations, figures, notes, note
                    on secondary sources, index. $32.50.)
            Located on the great Sognefjord of western Norway, Bale-strand is a place of unforgettable beauty.
                    This reviewer stood there, awestricken, at 11:00 PM one June evening while the sun glistened off
                    snowcapped peaks and cast long shadows on the fjord. But, as the author's grandfather (who
                    left Balestrand for the 
                        United States
                    ) once remarked, "you can't live off beauty" (p. xiii).
            This book compares and contrasts cultural patterns and change among two groups of people: those who
                    remained in Balestrand  and those who left for the Upper Midwest
                    in the nineteenth century. Jon Gjerde is at home in the rich documentation that is available on both
                    sides of the Atlantic and uses it to formulate firm conclusions. For example, in the peasant economy
                    of Balestrand grain production was traditionally men's work while the women attended to the
                    more labor-intensive production of animal products. In the new world, however, families from
                    Balestrand tended to concentrate their efforts on the production of land-intensive grain crops which
                    a nuclear family could raise with limited labor. Meanwhile, the more labor-intensive woman-produced
                    goods declined in economic importance, and labor needs from within the nuclear family increased the
                    utility of children and encouraged greater fertility. "As their reproductive roles grew and
                    their productive roles declined, women were compelled to move further into domestic roles, which
                    included care for large households of children. Men continued to specialize in farm work as grain
                    fields were enlarged with the help of bigger families and greater mechanization" (p. 235).
                    Thus, traditional sex roles changed. These shifts enabled the Balestrand families in
                            
                  Wisconsin, Iowa
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                     to preserve a rural way of life they valued highly and may not have been able to
                    maintain in Norway.
            The tidiness of the argument nearly causes one to forget that dairy farming has persisted as a way of
                    life in some Norwegian-American settlements from the pioneer period to the present. Was the rate of
                    social change slower in these localities, particularly for women? Still, Gjerde is convincing in his
                    arguments and at least anticipates such questions as that just raised. An able social scientist
                    working at the cutting edge of his discipline, he writes intelligibly, interestingly, and well. He
                    uses statistics effectively to advance his ideas and should be congratulated for keeping them under
                    narrative control. Twenty-two high quality photographs illustrate specific points and are well
                    placed in the text.
            Indiana does not enter into the study; few native Norwegians became Hoosiers. Yet, some Indiana
                    historians will want to read this book because of the methodology employed. Those who do will be
                    amply rewarded.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Peter T. Harstad
         
         
            
               The Dutch in America: Immigration, Settlement, and Cultural Change. Edited by
                    Robert P. Swierenga. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , N. J.: Rutgers University Press, 1985. Pp. xv, 303. Illustrations, tables, figures,
                    maps, notes, index. $32.00.)
            This collection of essays on Dutch immigration to the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     reveals the huge differences that separate  the old
                    immigration historiography from the new. At bedrock, traditional modes of thought in this field are
                    filiopietistic and elitist; the new ethnic history is rigorously attentive to problems of concept
                    and method. The former is inward-looking and has limited appeal outside the ethnic group; the
                    latter, sensitive to the need for comparative analysis, speaks to scholars interested in ethnicity
                    as a key to unlock mysteries in American social history.
            Both points of view are represented among the thirteen articles of this book, which were originally
                    presented in 1982 at a symposium sponsored by the Balch Institute of Ethnic Studies in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Among the contributors are three Netherlanders and one Canadian. They treat a variety
                    of subjects: immigration and settlement, community development, and patterns of family migration, as
                    well as religious and culural conflicts, the press, and popular literature. Inevitably, these essays
                    vary greatly in quality of concept, sophistication of method, and clarity of exposition. Some
                    represent the best that recent scholarship has to offer in immigration studies, and all tend to
                    reflect the remarkable influence that the editor, Robert P. Swierenga, has had on this field.
            The essays are particularly valuable for their exposition of the complexities of Dutch immigrant
                    society—its religious, socio-economic, linguistic, and cultural differences. The church
                    as the paramount immigrant institution is repeatedly emphasized, as the several authors reveal how
                    distinctions between Catholics and Calvinists and between the Reformed Church in America and the
                    Christian Reformed are fundamental to an understanding of the social history of the Dutch in
                    America.
            Individual essays stand out. Pieter Stovkis shows that Dutch immigration to the 
                        United States
                     must not be separated from international patterns and reveals the startling fact that
                    by 1909 significantly more Dutch had emigrated to 
                        Germany
                     than to the 
                        United States
                    . Henry van Stekelenburg explains that the numerous but seldom studied Dutch Catholics
                    in America tended to assimilate more rapidly than the Calvinists because they ordinarily held
                    membership in multiethnic parishes. Yda Saueressig-Schreuder employs the most sophisticated methods
                    to reveal the role of the family in Dutch Catholic migration to the Fox River
                    Valley in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . David Vanderstel's discoveries about Dutch neighborhoods in Grand Rapids
                    successfully challenge traditional notions about ethnic-group residential patterns in the cities, as
                    he shows that the Dutch clustered in neighborhoods to "experience the fellowship sustained
                    by familiar institutions and relationships" (p. 153). Richard Doyle effectively relates
                    Dutch residential persistence in Pella, 
                        Iowa
                    , with economic prosperity.
            
            Although some jarring lapses in copyediting or proofreading detract from the book's
                    excellence, The Dutch in America is an important, convenient addition to the
                    history of international migration. It is a commendable effort to combine Dutch and American
                    perspectives on a topic of importance to both countries.
            
               University of 
                            Nebraska
                        , Lincoln Frederick C. Luebke
         
         
            
               The Anti–Monopoly Persuasion: Popular Resistance to the Rise of Big
                        Business in the Midwest. By Steven L. Piott. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1985. Pp. x, 194. Notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $35.00.)
            The post—Civil War transformation of America from an agrarian community to an
                    urban-industrial society produced some strains and dislocations in traditional values and
                    institutions. The benefits of industrialization and the impact occasioned by the rise of big
                    business did not fall evenly on the participants, but then neither had the benefits of an
                    agricultural economy. In examining the impact of big business and industrialization, Steven L. Piott
                    has concentrated on the popular reaction to economic concentration—corporate monopoly or
                    trusts—in the Midwest, in the period 1887–1913. Piott argues, for the most
                    part convincingly, that informed and alert midwestern citizens correctly perceived that the
                    concentration of economic power in the hands of corporations was dangerous to basic democratic
                    principles as well as to their personal economic and social welfare.
            Although the popular reaction to "trusts" may have originated among economically
                    troubled farmers, the midwestern protest movement against the trusts broadened to include urban
                    laborers and small merchants. The evidence Piott marshalls to support his thesis is familiar: the
                    anti-trust activities of the various Grange organizations as well as the Agricultural Wheel and the
                    Farmer's Alliances; the actions of the state of 
                        Missouri
                     in the 1890s against the "binders" trust, the "insurance
                    trust," and other corporations that combined to take advantage of consumers, laborers, and
                    farmers; the 
                        St. Louis
                     streetcar strike of 1900; the popular reactions in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     against the "beef trust"; and the famous fight against Standard Oil
                    led by the state of 
                        Missouri
                    . Drawing on these familiar incidents Piott convincingly argues that farmers, urban
                    laborers, and small merchants organized a strong protest movement against the existence of
                    concentrated economic power, which by its very existence 
                    endangered the economic and social welfare of the "people" and presented a
                    persistent threat to basic democratic principles.
            The Panic of 1907 and the presidential campaign of 1908, Piott argues, "killed the popular
                    movement against trusts and monopolies" (p. 131). From this time on the Progressive
                    movement shifted from dissolution of trusts and restoring competition to a growing reliance on
                    government regulation. "What has been lost in this process," Piott concludes,
                    "had been a very rich progressive tradition of opposition to special interests; a more
                    direct, democratic participation in the political process; a continued governmental commitment to
                    bring about economic and social justice in society; a vibrant sense of community; and an expansive
                    sense of economic, social and political possibilities" (p. 156).
            When dealing with his central thesis Piott provides a well-documented, carefully written, and clearly
                    reasoned treatment of opposition in the Midwest to the rise of big business. However, anyone at all
                    familiar with current farm problems will leave Piott's explanation for the same problem in
                    the 1890s with a sense of déjà vu. Blaming low farm prices
                    on railroads, bankers, and middlemen simply will not suffice to explain problems that have persisted
                    for a century. It is, moreover, a gross distortion of history to suggest that fragmentation of
                    business, as opposed to regulation, would have solved those problems as well as most of the other
                    problems facing the 
                        United States
                     today.
            
               Northern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 
                            DeKalb
                        
                James D. Norris
         
         
            
               Class and Reform: School and Society in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1880–1930. By David John Hogan. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xxv, 328. Tables, diagrams, notes, index. $30.00.)
            Using the relationship between school and society in 
                        Chicago
                     as his framework, David John Hogan analyzes the meaning of progressivism in Class and Reform. He argues that the "market revolution" which
                    transformed America in the late nineteenth century had, by 1930, forced accommodations by
                    "not merely the school, but childhood, the family, and local government" (p. xii).
                    Rejecting both the traditional theme of expanding social justice and the revisionist emphasis on
                    social control, Hogan concludes that, above all, progressive reform can best be understood as a
                    class movement.
            The book begins with a description of class relationships in the nineteenth century and examines
                    labor unrest, the settlement movement, and local politics. Hogan writes, "We might  think of the Progressives as the pediatricians of the Great
                    Transformation, nurturing the growth of a reformed and balanced capitalism … and
                    prescribing generous doses" of corrective responses (p. 50). In the realm of education such
                    reforms included the development of child labor and compulsory education laws, the playground
                    movement, the establishment of a juvenile justice system, kindergartens, and a child-centered
                    pedagogy. The author argues that these reforms served to institutionalize the market economy by
                    socializing and preparing children for their roles as workers.
            The key third chapter discusses the limits of reform which contributed to the remaking of the 
                        Chicago
                     working class. Noting that organized labor's support for child labor and
                    compulsory education laws preceded the Progressive reformers, Hogan relies on statistical analyses
                    of income, school attendance, work patterns, truancy, and home ownership to support his view that
                    educational reforms and new patterns of home ownership resulted in an acceptance of the
                    transformation brought on by the forces of industrialism and urbanization.
            The last two chapters extend the theme by describing the triumphs of vocationalism and administrative
                    centralization in the public schools. The contention is that these two developments, accompanied by
                    the forced withdrawal of the nation's most militant teachers' organization, the 
                        Chicago
                     Teachers' Federation, from the 
                        Chicago
                     Federation of Labor in 1916, provide further evidence of the victory of the market
                    revolution.
            
               Class and Reform adds to the growing body of scholarship which follows the broad
                    outline set in 1928 by George S. Counts in his School and Society in 
                            Chicago
                        . Hogan draws together recent studies with his own research on the role of wage
                    earners in promoting and embracing education. The book is marred by a sufficient number of
                    typographical and minor errors to be noticeable. His thesis of class formation, which draws heavily
                    on the work of E. P. Thompson, is provocative but not compelling. The emphasis on class tends to
                    minimize such elements as race, religion, and ethnic background. More research on the concept of
                    class structure is needed to buttress the argument that the Progressives promoted the formation of a
                    class society.
            
               University of Southern Indiana, 
                            Evansville
                        
                Robert L. Reid
         
         
            
               Colonel House and Sir Edward Grey: A Study in Anglo–American
                    Diplomacy. By Joyce Grigsby Williams. (
                        Lanham
                    , Md.: University Press of America, 1984. Pp. [viii], 174. Notes, bibliographical essay,
                    index. Clothbound, $22.75; paperbound, $10.75.)
            It is surprising that a book on the House-Grey relationship has taken so long to appear. Its subject,
                    so natural and significant,  carries us into the vortex of World
                    War I diplomacy. The relationship between these two men, one a respected British foreign secretary
                    and the other the close friend, advisor, and confidant of President Woodrow Wilson, was of major
                    consequence; yet, it has never been fully explained. An aura of mystery has always surrounded
                    Colonel House's diplomatic involvements while the American diplomacy of Sir Edward Grey has
                    too frequently remained unquestioned. This volume reconstructs the association between these two men
                    during times crucial to their respective countries. It explores, in particular, House's
                    trips to Europe in 1913 and 1914, the drafting and acceptance of the well-known House-Grey
                    Memorandum of 1916, and the relations between the two during Grey's brief tenure as
                    Ambassador to the 
                        United States
                     in 1919.
            As regards matters of interpretation this is an exemplary study. Although it tends to explore Colonel
                    House in greater detail than Sir Edward Grey, it provides a clear and perceptive portrait of both
                    men during the time under observation. For years historians have had their suspicions about Colonel
                    House, and this volume confirms several of them. In it one encounters convincing argumentation
                    showing that House was much more the amateur diplomat than might be supposed and as a negotiator he
                    was capable on the one hand of great naivete and on the other of overstepping his instructions.
                    Similarly, it is clear from this study that the Colonel took diplomatic initiatives that were not
                    always in accord with President Wilson's own intentions. As for Grey, despite his charming
                    manner, he appears here as a champion of British interests and as one not opposed to employing
                    tactics of evasion and delay to achieve them. Regarding the House-Grey relationship itself it
                    appears in these pages as genuine enough despite the fact that neither man was above trying to
                    manipulate the other. One is left, however, with some question about that relationship. Did it
                    develop into a friendship or did it remain an acquaintanceship? Regardless of its nature it was an
                    important factor in connecting President Wilson with British leaders during the war, in developing
                    support for the League of Nations, and in strengthening Anglo-American relations, which, despite
                    some rough moments, became so important in the 1920s and 1930s.
            There is much to commend in this excellent book. Succinctly yet gracefully written, it is filled with
                    sound judgments. Joyce Grigsby Williams is expert at untangling and analyzing the web of diplomatic
                    history. She has researched her subject thoroughly and handles documentary evidence with ease. Some
                    of the most interesting passages in the book occur when she incorporates the  documented record directly in her narrative. In these passages she
                    demonstrates that some of the most commonly used historical sources of the period need to be
                    questioned by comparing different accounts of conversations and meetings and by carefully examining
                    conflicting testimony. The way that Colonel House, for instance, portrayed himself in his own
                    writings is, as Williams suggests, surely an exaggeration of the truth.
            One finishes this book content that the author has woven a successful historical narrative out of
                    comprehensive documentation. In the process she has also underscored some of the perils that can
                    creep into informal diplomacy. This is one of those small books that covers an integral part of a
                    large and commanding subject. It deserves to become a standard account of the fascinating House-Grey
                    relationship. Moreover, it is a fine example of the engaging way in which diplomatic history can be
                    written.
            
               
                  
                            Valparaiso
                         University, 
                            Valparaiso
                        
                James D. Startt
         
         
            
               Ragtime: Its History, Composers, and Music. Edited by John Edward Hasse. (
                        New York
                    : Schirmer Books, 1985. Pp. x, 400. Sheet music excerpts, tables, illustrations, notes,
                    checklist of compositions, select bibliography, ragtime music folios and method books, discography
                    of ragtime records, ragtime compositions by women, list of ragtime organizations, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $17.95.)
            
               Ragtime is a compilation of new and republished (out-of-print or inaccessible)
                    essays edited by John E. Hasse, curator of the National Museum of American History at the
                    Smithsonian Institution. The work aims first to provide a mostly general audience with
                    ragtime's history, its personalities, and its revivals. In addition, it addresses such new
                    topics as the contribution of women to ragtime; the influence of banjos and piano rolls; ragtime
                    songs and band music; and the impact of ragtime on country music. Furthermore, the book seeks to
                    broaden the concept of ragtime by investigating its relation to popular song and jazz improvisation.
            The contributors to the book include such specialists as Gunther Schuller, Edward Berlin (songs), 
                        Lowell
                     Schreyer (banjo), Max Morath and James Dapogny (piano), as well as many other reputable
                    historians of the genre. Particularly valuable is a republished interview with James P. Johnson,
                    conducted by Tom Davin sometime before the pianist's death in 1955. Interviews with Rudi
                    Blesh, Max Morath, and Gunther Schuller which focus on more recent ragtime revivals are also
                    included.
            
            Despite the uneven literary style and repetition of some information inherent in such collections,
                    the work is remarkable for its scholarly approach and its cultural sensitivity. Extensive tables
                    help to trace the chronology of ragtime relative to contemporary political and artistic events.
                    Other tables list, for example, the most popular piano rags and ragtime songs, ragtime records,
                    arrangers, and unpublished piano rags, along with pertinent dates, places of publication, and the
                    manufacturers' or brand names. And, besides ample end notes for each chapter, the book
                    provides a lengthy bibliography and discography (over 50 pages) for further research.
            Gratefully, the reader is spared the chatty or sensationalistic style that mars other studies of
                    popular music. Instead, the approach is serious, yet engaging, and the rigorous musical analysis of
                    ragtime rhythm and structure by Frank Gillis and Guy Waterman are welcome additions, even if they
                    are over the head of some laymen.
            Admittedly, the book is not comprehensive. However, it does provide new insights about
                    ragtime's roots in the Midwest. Beyond the period photos of famous music spots and composer
                    portraits, the study's tables help to locate geographically influential artists and
                    publishing houses. 
                        Indianapolis
                     receives special attention in a chapter devoted to May Aufderheide, a city native who
                    gained a national reputation around the years 1908–1911 for her piano rags, which were
                    published by her father, James H. Aufderheide, the founder of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's leading ragtime publishing house.
            
               Ragtime should provide a rich introduction to the ragtime beginner and a valuable
                    stepping-stone for more advanced researchers.
            
               St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn. Alice M. Hanson
         
         
            
               The Brookings Institution, 1916–1952: Expertise and the Public Interest in
                        a Democratic Society. By Donald T. Critchlow. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1985. Pp. xiv, 247. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $23.00.)
            Until recently most histories of modern America's political development have emphasized the
                    durability of business-government conflict. During the last two decades, however, historians have
                    discovered a strong tradition of business-government cooperation running from the early years of the
                    century to the present. The operations of the National Civic Federation, the  war mobilization of 1917–1918, Herbert Hoover's
                    "associative state" of the 1920s, the early New Deal, and the wide public
                    influence of private foundations, are now increasingly seen as parts of a continuous history of
                    organizational activity between business institutions and the state. The view of modern America now
                    emerging does not deny the existence of business-government conflict but emphasizes instead a
                    long-neglected history of linked public and private bureaucracies and a distinctly American tendency
                    to use private institutions for public purposes.
            Nowhere is this tendency more apparent than in the rise and influence of the private policy-research
                    organization, or "think tank." A peculiarly American invention, the think tank has
                    functioned as one of the means through which Americans reconcile their traditional suspicion of the
                    state and planning with their modern need for policy research and national management. And Donald T.
                    Critchlow's study of the origins and early history of the Brookings Institution is an
                    excellent analysis of the difficult place in American politics occupied by the nation's
                    oldest such policy-research organization.
            Critchlow, a professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, is writing within the mainsteam of
                    recent scholarship but is opposed to the tendency of some scholars to regard think tanks simply as
                    tools of corporate or statist elites. Instead, Critchlow argues, organizations such as Brookings
                    exist in a much more complex relationship with their founders, patrons, staff, government, and the
                    larger political culture in which they operate. The Brookings, he suggests, is at once, and by
                    degrees, both independent of and deeply influenced by its society and cannot properly be understood
                    except on such terms. To demonstrate this point Critchlow begins his story against both the backdrop
                    of the early twentieth-century American search for antidotes to social instability and the
                    compelling life of Robert S. Brookings.
            A socially-conscious businessman and millionaire, Brookings shared a faith in the superiority of
                    scientific expertise over politics that was increasingly characteristic among reformers in the two
                    decades before World War I. Political corruption, economic inefficiency, and class antagonism, so
                    the argument ran, had produced a crisis of social authority, one that could be met only by the
                    creation of social and economic research institutions perceived to be scientific and impartial and
                    thus able to generate social truths around which a new social consensus could be built.
            This enthusiasm for a socially redemptive social science, one properly protected within allegedly
                    disinterested institutions, lay behind the creation and activities of such bodies as the Russell
                    Sage Foundation and the National Bureau of Economic Research, 
                    among others, but it was most emphatically expressed in the organization building of Robert S.
                    Brookings and his allies. They, in 1916, founded the Institute for Government Research. This was
                    followed, in 1922, by the Institute of Economics. And in 1927, in 
                        Washington
                    , B.C., the two bodies merged to inaugurate the Brookings Institution.
            By the 1930s, Brookings social scientists had conducted studies that, among other things, had led to
                    the establishment of a new federal budget mechanism and to the reorganization of the international
                    debt system. Under its director, Harold G. Moulton, however, the Institution's antistatism
                    meant opposition to much of the New Deal and the expanding macroeconomic role of the federal
                    government. By the 1940s Brookings had become seriously alienated from the political mainstream.
                    With its influence in decline and its continued financing in doubt, its survival was questionable.
                    Critchlow ends his book in 1952, the year of Moulton's retirement, and the point where the
                    institution began to make peace with and become an important part of the postwar macroeconomic and
                    social welfare consensus.
            Critchlow's study is much more than a fine monograph. It is also an important contribution
                    to the continuing debate over the place and politics of social science expertise in the formulation
                    of twentieth-century American public policy.
            
               University of 
                     Delaware,
                                Newark
                  
                Guy Alchon
         
         
            
               The American West Transformed: The Impact of the Second World War. By Gerald D.
                    Nash. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. x, 304. Illustrations, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $35.00.)
            Gerald Nash, one of the principal authorities on the twentieth-century American West, is absolutely
                    right in viewing World War II as a watershed of immense proportions in the region. The four years of
                    wartime initiated a profound transformation of the West's economy, culture, and society.
                    This book deals with the change in culture and society, while a projected second volume will deal
                    with economic change.
            Defining the West as the Pacific Coast and the Mountain states, Nash also deals incidentally with
                    parts of the 
                        Midwest
                     and 
                        Texas
                    . As with his previous general study, his principal focus in this book is on the Pacific
                    Coast, particularly 
                        California
                    . Chapters deal with urban growth and problems, ethnic groups, and the impact of the
                    European emigre on the scientific and cultural communities.
            
            In general, the book succeeds admirably. Wartime growth placed enormous pressure on the cities and
                    states of the American West. Communities could not provide housing, transportation, and other
                    services for their citizens, racism reared its head in hiring and housing patterns, and European
                    immigrants added a dimension to the scientific and cultural communities that probably would never
                    have occurred without the force of wartime conditions.
            The major problem with the book derives from its lack of geographic balance. Nash includes very
                    little information on the central and northern Rocky Mountain area, especially
                            
                  Idaho, Montana, Utah
               , and Wyoming.
                    The author slights, for instance, the Japanese relocation centers in those states. While the book
                    deals with the impact of the war on Pueblo, Navajo, and Sioux Indians, the Piute, Ute, Shoshoni and
                    Nez Percé are passed over. Instead of recognizing the construction of the Clearfield
                    Naval Supply Depot as part of the transformation of the urban corridor between 
                        Ogden
                     and 
                        Salt Lake City
                    , Nash identifies Clearfield as a "very thinly populated area," when,
                    in fact, it lies in the most thickly populated region of the state (p. 136).
            It is likely also that a thorough study of the northern Rocky Mountain states,
                    which tended to be lower in the percentage of ethnic minorities upon which Nash concentrated, would
                    have provided Nash with a contrast, particularly in his discussion of ethnic transformation.
                    Moreover, while Nash gave more space to 
                  Oregon,
                            New Mexico
               , and Nevada than to 
                        Utah
                    , the federal government spent more money on major wartime industrial facilities there
                    than in any other state of the region except 
                        California
                     and 
                        Washington
                     (see tables 2 and 4). In addition, civilian governmental employment was higher by 1945
                    in 
                        Utah
                     than in any state except the same two coastal states.
            Nevertheless, The American West Transformed is an extremely valuable source. Here
                    historians have a discussion of the patterns of transformation and the social and cultural problems
                    associated with that transformation. It is a fine achievement.
            
               Brigham Young University, Provo, 
                            Utah
                        
                Thomas G. Alexander
         
         
            
               Dirksen of 
                            Illinois
                        : Senatorial Statesman. By Edward L. Schapsmeier and Frederick H. Schapsmeier. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xvi, 269. Notes, illustrations, chart, selected bibliography, index.
                    $19.95)
            It was called the "Ev and Charlie Show," and it let America hear the minority
                    party's voice from a Congress dominated by  President
                    John F. Kennedy and the Democratic party of 1961. The show was a television success that
                    demonstrated the power of a communication form not well understood. Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     and Congressman Charles A. Halleck of Indiana had put together an attention-getting
                    format that soon was a household word. The Schapsmeiers reveal, in their carefully researched
                    biography of Dirksen, that the two commensurate politicians had had the advice and counsel of former
                    President Dwight D. Eisenhower in creating this new image of the opposition party on issues
                    currently before the Congress.
            In many ways the weekly presentation was in keeping with Ev Dirksen's career in Congress. A
                    flamboyant showman who understood the effect of the human voice through hard practice as a
                    campaigner, Dirksen determined to keep the loyal opposition in the forefront. His mechanism for
                    doing this was the Republican Joint Congressional Leadership Conference. Teaming up with Congressman
                    Halleck, minority leader in the House, was a master stroke. Only four years separated Dirksen and
                    Halleck. Both were lawyers, small town products of 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana, respectively, and both World War I veterans. They understood each other
                    and reflected that fact as well as their concerns for the future of the nation in their weekly
                    broadcasts.
            The creation of the successful television show reveals several things about Dirksen's
                    approach to politics. It was an innovative way for the senator to promote his party's
                    interests through his ability as an orator who could appeal to individuals or a mass audience.
                    Secondly, he demonstrated how quickly he could accommodate his style to the changes which had
                    occurred from the Eisenhower landslide of 1952, to Kennedy's victory in 1960.
            Though this biography covers Dirksen from birth to death, it is far from the last word on his career
                    as a congressman and senator from 
                        Illinois
                    . It is, however, a fine beginning in outlining a rich and full life that played center
                    stage during his opposition to Democratic presidential administrations in the 1930s and 1940s and
                    flowered in his leadership during the Republican victories of the 1950s.
            For students and general readers with only a passing knowledge of the Dirksen era, this book is a
                    good, carefully researched introduction. It also points the way for other serious researchers who
                    will examine in detail Dirksen's effect on the legislation presented to Congress during his
                    years in the House and Senate.
            As the authors observe there is much to be learned by more thorough investigation of
                    Dirksen's use of the minority leader's  role
                    in seeking compromise when necessary, vigorously opposing majority opinions, and working with
                    opposition administrations. Dirksen's political legacy is found in how he managed these
                    things. It was an important political lesson for his contemporaries, as well as for his successors.
            
               Eisenhower Library, Abilene, Kan. John E. Wickman
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Party Lines, Pumps and Privies: Memories of Hoosier Home-makers. Edited by Eleanor
                    Arnold. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Extension Homemakers Association, [1984]. Pp. 176. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $6.00.)
            
               Buggies and Bad Times: Memories of Hoosier Homemakers. Edited by Eleanor Arnold. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Extension Homemakers Association, [1985]. Pp. 170. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $6.00.) The second and third volumes in the series Memories of Hoosier
                        Homemakers continue a remarkable selection of interviews with Indiana women. Subjects
                    treated range from washboards, iceboxes, and victrolas in the second volume to buggies, the Ku Klux
                    Klan, and the Depression in the third. Much of the large pleasure in reading these selections comes
                    from the sense of personality that often shines through the recollections. And there is the myriad
                    of detail that will inform, entertain, and, for those old enough to remember, evoke memories both
                    sad and happy. These interviews serve not only the present but also will prove a most valuable
                    primary source for future generations. The many volunteers associated with this project deserve
                    large appreciation, with special plaudits for: Eleanor Arnold, editor and project director; F.
                    Gerald Handfield, Jr., oral history consultant; and Paul Wilson, photographic consultant. In
                    amassing this collection the Indiana Extension Homemakers Association has contributed to much more
                    than the celebration of its seventy-fifth anniversary in 1988. The books may be ordered at
                    $6.00 a copy from Mrs. Howard Alvey, 5926 S. Park Road, 
                        Kokomo
                    , Ind., 46902. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant. Volume 13, November 16, 1864-February
                        20, 1865; Volume 14, February 21-April 30, 1865. Edited by John Y. Simon
                    (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1985. Pp. xxvi, xxvi, 599, 548. Illustrations, chronologies, notes,
                    maps, calendars, indexes. $45.00 per volume.) Volumes 13 and 14 contain Grant's
                    papers for the period from the fall of 1864 to the end of the Civil War. At the beginning of this
                    period Grant began using a carbon copying device. As a result many more letters in Grant's
                    own handwriting exist for this period than earlier. This fact allowed the editor to include
                    Grant's deletions as well as his finished text; thus allowing the reader some incites into
                    Grant's thinking at the time a particular item was composed.
            
            The content of these volumes primarily consists of orders to subordinates and correspondence with
                    Abraham Lincoln, Edwin Stanton, and other government officials sent from Grant's
                    headquarters at City Point, 
                        Virginia
                    . They also contain personal letters to his wife and transcripts of Grant's
                    testimonies before Congress. As one would expect many of the letters are short, laconic, and
                    mundane, but many of the items in these volumes contain material that provide the reader with
                    insights into Grant's character and his motivations for many of his actions during the
                    closing months of the Civil War. Thomas E. Rodgers, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Atlas of 
                            Johnson County
                         Indiana: 1820 to 1900, Featuring Maps, Pictures, 
                            Text
                        , and Statistics from 
                            County Atlases
                         (1866, 1881, 1900), County Histories (1881, 1888, 1913), and Many Other
                    Sources. Compiled and edited by John V. Bergen. (
                        Franklin
                    , Ind.: 
                        Johnson County
                     Historical Society, 1984. Pp. xvi, 398. Maps, tables, illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $50.00.) John V. Bergen, with the help of the 
                        Johnson County
                     Historical Society and many individuals, has produced a unique compilation of Indiana
                    history and geography. The title only suggests the wealth and range of materials Bergen has
                    gathered. Nineteenth-century maps, atlases, directories, and county histories provide the bulk of
                    the content of the volume, but more than a third of the work consists of Bergen's newly
                    prepared maps, essays, and other material. Chapters cover geographical and historical background,
                    state, county, and township maps, farm landscape views, and maps and other information on Edinburgh, 
                        Franklin
                    , Greenwood, and other communities as well as sketches on individuals, themes, and
                    institutions in nineteenth-century 
                        Johnson County
                    . 
                        Johnson County
                     school teachers will immediately see many ways to use this collection, and any adult
                    with a table strong enough to hold its weight will be willingly imprisoned for hours in the
                    delightful detail and surprising insights that derive from this labor of love. The atlas may be
                    ordered from Judy Vaught, Smily Mill, Rt. 4, Box 197, 
                        Franklin
                    , Ind. 46131. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               An Informal History of 
                            Clark County
                        , Indiana. By Gerald O. Haffner. (
                        Evansville
                    , Ind.: Whipporwill Publications, 1985. Pp. 207. Map, illustrations, bibliography.
                    $15.00.) Gerald O. Haffner, professor of history at Indiana University Southeast, has
                    written an interesting account of 
                        Clark County
                    's development. A chapter for each of six chronological periods (the same as
                    those  set for the six-volume History of
                    Indiana) moves from a discussion of national events to state and then local happenings. Haffner
                    emphasizes everyday life, ranging from schooling and floods to gambling and prices of groceries. He
                    focuses selectively on subjects he considers most interesting, as illustrated by his long treatment
                    of the evolution of Indiana University Southeast. As Haffner notes, this is not a definitive history
                    of 
                        Clark County
                    , but it is one that will be of considerable interest to residents. The book may be
                    ordered from CommerceAmerica Bank, 443 Spring Street, 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Ind. 47130. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Kitchi-Gami: Life Among the Lake Superior Ojibway. By Johann Georg Kohl.
                    Introduction by Robert E. Bieder. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Press, 1985. Pp. xlii, 477. Map, notes, illustrations, appendixes,
                    index. Paperbound, $11.95.) Kitchi-Gami is Johann Georg Kohl's
                    description of the beliefs, attitudes, practices, and material culture of the Ojibway Indian tribe.
                    The title is the Indian word for Lake Superior, along whose southern shore the Ojibway make their
                    home. It was first published, in German, in 1859 and then published in a slightly abridged English
                    version in 1860. The present volume is a reprint of the latter along with an excellent introduction
                    by Robert E. Bieder and a collection of Ojibway tales that had been deleted from the 1860
                    translation.
            Kohl (1808–1878) was a German travel writer and scholar who was particularly interested in
                    the causal relationship between geography and culture. It was this interest that prompted him to
                    make a study of the Ojibway, in 1855, while visiting the upper-
                        Mississippi
                     area to prepare a travel book on the region. Though slightly tainted by hints of racism
                    on the one hand and romanticism on the other, Kohl's work has a modern ring, thanks largely
                    to a midnineteenth-century German intellectual climate that emphasized environmental factors, the
                    cross comparison of cultures, and the use of the folktale as a key to understanding a people.
            The text of the book is a composite of interviews, anecdotes, and analysis that I found to be
                    interesting, accessible, engaging, and at times fascinating. Historians and anthropologists still
                    find this book to be a useful resource, and I think that general readers who have any interest in
                    Indians will find that this book makes informative and delightful reading. Thomas E.
                        Rodgers, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Indians of 
                            Montgomery County
                        , Indiana. By Bridgie Brill Brelsford; illustrated by Mary Early Johnson. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind.: 
                        Montgomery County
                     Historical Society, 1985. Pp. viii, 221. Maps, figures, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    sources, index. $10.00.) The many questions asked about Indians at the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     District Public Library led to this very useful and interesting book. Like all good
                    librarians Bridgie Brill Brelsford has tracked her subject with determination and skill, working
                    through a large variety and number of sources. And she has put this information together in a
                    readable and accessible manner, ranging from archaeological accounts of prehistoric Indians to tales
                    and legends about Peter Cornstalk and other Indians of 
                        Montgomery County
                    . The book may be ordered, with an additional seventy-five cents for postage, from
                    Publications Committee, 
                        Montgomery County
                     Historical Society, Lane Place, 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind. 47933. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
            The Michigan Historical Review is seeking articles for publication relating to
                    Michigan's political, economic, social, and cultural history. The editor also welcomes
                    manuscripts in American, Canadian, and Midwestern history that directly or indirectly explore
                    important themes related to Michigan's past. Articles should be submitted in duplicate and
                    double–spaced with notes and citations on separate pages. The author's name and
                    address should appear only on a separate title page. Correspondence regarding manuscripts and all
                    editorial matters should be addressed to the Editor, Michigan Historical Review,
                    Clarke Historical Library, Central Michigan University, Mt. Pleasant, Michigan 48859.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
