
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 9, Issue 3, pages 121-213. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:9+issue:3+year:1913&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORY AND ITS CELEBRATION
            JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN Professor of American History and Politics, Indiana University
            [This paper was read at the annual meeting of the History Section of the State
                    Teachers' Association, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 10, 1913. Much of the Letter part of it was contributed
                    originally to the memorial volume urging the suitable celebration of the Indiana
                    Centennial in 1916, prepared under the general direction of Dr. Frank B. Wynn.]
            I HAVE always admired the piety of the old 
                        Quaker
                     woman who once said in meeting that she had "no religion
                    to boast of." The erance inspires confidence in the
                    possibility of humility, and one 
               ; made to feel
                    that the heart from which such an utterance came ight really exemplify
                    a religion that was pure and undefiled. Pride in religion would, of course, be
                    an anomaly and a paradox. All self-glorying pride is foolish, and it generally
                    meets what the wise men of old thought was coming to it—a sudden fall
                    and a thud.
            That scintillating weekly journal which we know as Life has
                    been aying lately some amusing wise things about "State
                    Pride." "Why," is asks, "should any one ever
                    be proud of a little irregular blot on the map that got there without his
                    assistance and will remain there lung after he is gathered to his fathers? What
                    is it that makes one proud of his State? Is it the climate? No climate is
                    dependable -.nough to be pride-worthy. Is it the particular set of officeholders
                    that inhabit a particular State Capitol? Is it the grafting legislators, or the
                    representatives in 
                        Washington
                    ? Or is it the particularly excellent butchers and grocers and
                    financiers? Or is it the particularly excellent slums, dives, and riff-raff? Who
                    started this State pride business any way? Now that we come to think it over, we
                    seldom hear of it from men who have anything else to be proud of. people who
                    have bustled about and made something of themselves have no pride to waste on a
                    political organization whose main excuse for existence seems to be to collect taxes from hard-working people and hand
                    the money over to easy-living officeholders, who in  turn spend their time hunting up valuable public
                    rights to hand over to private individuals, who thereupon become
                        respectable."1
            
            Such is Life, as it gives vent to its feelings. The passage
                    which I have quoted is suggestive of a few of the darker aspects of almost any
                    State, of ours as well as any other. There are many things in the State of which
                    we have reason rather to be ashamed than proud. It is well to be reminded of
                    these things occasionally, that we may not be too much puffed up, that we may
                    not cultivate an unreasonable conceit of our own superiority, in talents, rank,
                    or merit. Humility is always becoming, and no man and no State can ever be
                    worthily great without it. Self-examination is profitable unto godliness and
                    unto good works. It should be indulged in, not that we should compare ourselves
                    with ourselves or flatter ourselves that we are better than others, but that we
                    may measure ourselves by some worthy standard or ideal, that we may see what we
                    have done that we ought not to have done, and what we ought to have done that
                    has been left undone. This spirit, if it does not beget within us a worthy
                    emulation to redeem the time that is to come and to make some atonement for the
                    past that is beyond recall, will at any rate save us mercifully from a hateful
                    insolence and disdain and contempt for others who are as good as ourselves. To
                    this unbecoming mind an unwise State or sectional pride is likely to lead us,
                    and whenever a State and its people come to that they have reached a stage in
                    which appear sure signs of senility and decay,—a condition in which
                    no one can find any legitimate source of pride for a people. If any one thinks
                    he is showing patriotism for his State by proclaiming a pride that carries with
                    it any such influence and tendency, he reveals a state of mind that is woefully
                    bad and perhaps incurable. We should love our own and try to make the most of
                    it; but to say merely because a State is ours that we should therefore resent
                    all criticism of it and proclaim our pride and satisfaction in it,—in
                    such a disposition neither the statesman nor the patriot citizen can have part
                    or lot.
            Patriotism as well as religion means devotion; and it is just as incumbent upon
                    us to say in humility, as did the good 
                        Quaker
                     woman of her religion, "We have no patriotism to boast
                    of." Pride and boasting are not what patriotism leads to. It leads to
                    service, sacrifice, achievement. It will lead us to recognize our faults, to see
                    ourselves as others see us; to lead us to see wherein we have fallen short and
                    are falling short of the service and achievement that the 
                  
                     1
                            Life, May 1, 1913, p. 374.
               
                     world has a right to expect of us, in view
                    of the opportunities that nature and nature's God have conferred upon
                    us.
            But there is another sense in which we may speak of pride as a thing of
                    worth,—of the utmost value to any individual or any people. If it
                    leads us to abhor that which is unworthy; if it leads us to rise above the mean
                    and to emulate the noble; to hold fast to that which is good and to preserve it
                    for posterity; to strive to bring to our State a worthy life and lasting
                    achievement,—if we have the pride that leads us in this direction, it
                    is then a virtue worthy of the highest and most constant emulation. Wherein it
                    leads us to appreciate and admire and to preserve the worthy and noble examples
                    of the past, and to emulate the virtues of those who have achieved good things
                    for us, of those who have labored that we may enter into the fruit of their
                    labor,—if this is our pride it is one of the noblest virtues of the
                    civic spirit. The historical essayist Macaulay has said it well: "A
                    people which takes no pride in the noble achievements of their ancestors will
                    never achieve anything worthy to be remembered with pride by their remote
                    descendants."
            I have introduced this little gratuitous homily on State pride and loyalty,
                    preparatory to a plea for the promotion of a greater interest in Indiana
                    history. I believe there is a great deal in the spirit with which the history of
                    the State is to be approached. Livy was a patriotic historian of 
                        Rome
                    . To him the chief end and aim of history was to glorify 
                        Rome
                     and to exalt her forever. To find out the truth of history and to
                    set it down right, might not properly stimulate Roman pride and patriotism; and
                    therefore Livy was prone to neglect the truth for the sake of Roman honor and
                    glory. As he delved into the record of his country's past life, he
                    found much to reveal in honor, but much also in dishonor. He decided what
                    history should make known and what it should suppress. In the same way does the
                    historian find the good and the bad mingled in the past story of Indiana. There
                    is something to be said as we contemplate this story in favor of preserving for
                    the records of history only the good and allowing the evil that Hoosiers have
                    done to be interred with their bones. But we know that our ancestors were very
                    imperfect beings, that they were men of like passions with ourselves; and we are
                    inclined to think that the true Muse of History desires us to see them just as
                    they were, trusting us to gather lessons from their errors and shortcomings as
                    well as from their achievements of valor and worth. In any case, an intelligent
                    knowledge of the lives that have gone before, of what has been done to make us
                    or to unmake  us, is most likely to promote
                    our own betterment; and my homily may serve again to suggest one of the prime
                    uses of history,—that U is chiefly by taking an interest in the past
                    that we are led into a public spirited interest in our future. Without that
                    interest we shall live only within our little fleeting present of a few score
                    years.
            We should urge this interest not because we think Indiana is the greatest State
                    that ever was or ever will be; not because we are proud of all the things that
                    have ever happened within her borders; not merely to glorify the worthy deeds
                    and lives of our own people, or to seek out and uncover the curious and personal
                    and local life that may have been known within these parts. There is a reason
                    better than these. As no man liveth to himself, neither does any generation
                    within the State. The State that deliberately breaks with the past is undone.
                    Continuity of life is the law of civil society. In a very true sense we may
                    think of our State as the heir of the past. Many generations of the past have
                    contributed to our origin and upbuilding, and it behooves us to know how and
                    whence we came, and what have been the agencies, influences, and factors that
                    have contributed to our possessions, our achievements, and to the organized ways
                    in which we live and move and have our civilized being.
            I once heard an ardent and enthusiastic advocate of the study of Indiana history
                    loudly proclaim in public audience that it was just as important for our youth,
                    our boys and girls, to be taught the story of the "Massacre of Pigeon
                    Roost" as for them to learn of the battle of Marathon and its historic
                    results. Therefore, instead of requiring of the pupils so much of the time for
                    the study of the struggles and battles of ancient peoples that have been dead
                    and gone for so many centuries—of the Greeks with their wonderful
                    achievements in art, literature, and civilization,—our schools should
                    rather teach more of what concerns ourselves, of what is our very own here in
                    Indiana, that the boys and girls, turning aside from Marathon and Salamis,
                    Cannae or Runnymede, may learn more of "Pigeon Roost,"
                    Ouiate-non, and the pioneer struggles with the Delawares and Kickapoos. The
                    professor of Greek who heard this enthusiastic devotee of Indiana history very
                    naturally expressed his dissent at what he considered misguided and one-sided
                    public teaching, and I confess that my sympathies and judgment went with the
                    professor of Greek. Al! happenings of the past are not of equal importance. The
                    battles of the kites and the crows in the forests are just as important to
                    history as are the unrecorded struggles of unorganized and uncivilized men in
                    the jungles and caves of the earth. I think it is Professor Seeley  who has suggested some such simile. History deals
                    with man as a political being in an organized civil state. The history of
                    Indiana is not a thing separate and apart from the history of civilization; it
                    is not merely local, sectional, particularistic, or personal. It is because it
                    is a part of a great and noble whole, because it is within the stream of time,
                    that we should study it, preserve it, record it, and make it known. Indiana has
                    made some worthy contributions to the history of the West. The people who made
                    these contributions, in deeds well done and long gone by, were not altogether
                    conscious of their importance or of their place in history. If they had had more
                    of the historic spirit and been more deeply conscious of their own political
                    being, they would have left more for history in their laws, their manners, and
                    their accomplishments. In many ways their life has died with their generation,
                    and I presume in their darkness and ignorance has deserved so to die.
            But there is much preserved and to be preserved that serves to connect us with
                    the race and with the past. It is our contribution to the common fund. It
                    behooves us to understand it and to hand it down not only unimpaired, but
                    increased and improved. It has been saved to us chiefly by those who have had an
                    intelligent sense of their responsibility; by those who have had some pride of
                    worth; by just such men as our friend Dr. Frank B. Wynn, who made during this
                    last year an heroic effort to induce the Legislature of the State to seize the
                    opportunity of the coming centennial in 1916 to cultivate in a large public Way
                    this knowledge and reverence for the past as a means of promoting the glory of
                    the future. This public-spirited civic soldier of the State did not find the
                    full measure of support that he had a right to expect, but we may be sure that
                    his efforts for the suitable celebration of our centennial will not be without
                    effective results.
            This celebration of Indiana's centennial, which Dr. Wynn and his
                    committee have been so worthily advocating, should keep in view two aspects in
                    commemoration of Indiana history.
            I. It should be the occasion and the means of promoting the study, collection,
                    and preservation of materials for the history of Indiana.
            II. It should produce a worthy public celebration and commemoration of the
                    historic past of the State.
            The first of these ends will relate to what is of the more permanent and enduring
                    value, the latter to the more immediate, popular  and spectacular side of the centennial celebration.
                    Let us speak first of the second aspect of the centennial year.
            I.
            While a material and spectacular celebration of a hundred years of the
                    State's history will be fleeting and will pass away with the jubilee
                    exercises of the year, yet its influence may be abiding for years to come. This
                    aspect of the celebration is of importance, and much care and attention may
                    wisely be devoted to it. It may be made an expression of noble devotion to the
                    State, of a worthy public spirit and a fine patriotism which may beget in the
                    rising generation a deeper love for Indiana and a more intelligent appreciation
                    of her achievements, while to the generation that is passing from the stage of
                    action there may be given much joy and satisfaction in having been a part of a
                    worthy past.
            Let us portray in pageantry a hundred years of Indiana history before the people
                    of the State. This can be done by—
            (a) A grand spectacular procession through the streets of the
                    capital city, illustrating many interesting and varied aspects of our history.
                    We would suggest a visual illustration and a representation by means of floats
                    or a series of tableaux of the following:
            
               I. PIONEER LIFE. 
                     An Indian Group. The Wigwam, showing the industry and domestic
                                life of the Indians. The descendants of the Indiana Indians may be
                                obtained.
                     The Life of the Pioneer Trapper and Wood Ranger, the Coureurs de Bois.
                     
                     La Salle and the Jesuits.
                     The Pioneer Settlements at 
                           Ft.
                                        Vincennes, Ft.
                                    Wayne
                        , and Ouiatenon; the Trading Post.
                     The Scene of the Transfer from the French to the English.
                     George Rogers Clark and the Capture of 
                                    Vincennes
                                , 1779.
                     Scenes in the Battle of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                .
                     The Inauguration of the Territorial Government, 1800.
                     The Council of General Harrison with the Indians.
                  
               
               II. THE PERIOD OF SETTLEMENT. 
                     The Early Log Cabin: Half-faced Camp.
                     Early Log Cabin: the Round Log Type.
                     Early Log Cabin: Hewed Log Type, interior view, woman spinning,
                                etc.
                     Making the Constitution under the Corydon Elm.
                     Governor Jennings taking the Oath of Office.
                     Making the New Purchase, 1818.
                     The Founding of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                .
                     
                     Transfer of the Capital to 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : How Samuel Merrill transported the Treasury (Ox Team).
                     An Early Church Meeting.
                     The Circuit Rider.
                     An Early Schoolhouse. Scenes from The Hoosier
                                    Schoolmaster.
                     
                     The Founding of Indiana University.
                     Early Transportation and Travel. 
                           (a.) The Packhorse.
                           (b) Coaching and Post Days.
                           (c) Flatboat and Canal Boat.
                           (d) The Early Tavern.
                           (e) The "Movers" and Conestoga Wagon.
                                        Scenes on the National Road, of which Washington Street was
                                        a part.
                           (f) The Early Steam Train.
                        
                     
                     A Political Campaign. "
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 and Tyler Too." Log Cabin and Hard Cider, and
                                the Coonskin.
                     A Husking Bee and an Apple Peeling.
                  
               
               III. SLAVERY AND THE WAR. 
                     The Underground Railway.
                     Lincoln speaking at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 en route to Washington.
                     Governor Morton offering Troops to Lincoln for the Union.
                     Governor Morton commissioning Union Officers, Lew Wallace, et al.
                     
                     Union Soldiers leaving for the Front.
                     The Women at Home in War Times.
                     Arrival of News from the Front.
                     The Boys coming back from the War.
                     Indiana's Record in the Civil War; Roster, Number
                                Enlisted, Dead, Wounded, etc. Tableaux of Arms.
                  
               
               IV. LATER INDUSTRIAL AND MATERIAL DEVELOPMENT. 
                     Mining.
                     Agriculture.
                     Manufacturing.
                     Transportation.
                  
               
               V A SERIES OF TABLEAUX SETTING FORTH THE LIFE OF THE STATE IN— 
                     Literature.
                     Art.
                     Science.
                     Education.
                     Human Welfare.
                  
               
            
            These are tentative suggestions. Other features will be thought of, and the
                    details and the execution of the spectacle can be wrought out by care and
                    thought on the part of those who are competent and skilled in the art of
                    exhibition.
            (b) In addition to the spectacular procession we could have a play, or a series
                    of tableaux in a fixed place with repeated perform ances  during the centennial celebration. They should be
                    designed to illustrate scenes, incidents, and characters in Indiana life. Men
                    like Mr. McCutcheon could supply a series of popular cartoons to picture to us
                    the past, and no doubt men of the standing of Mr. Meredith Nicholson, Mr. Booth
                    Tarkington, and Mr. George Ade, would lend their literary and dramatic art to
                    promote a suitable memorial celebration in honor of the State. The best mind and
                    talent of Indiana can be brought to the service of such a worthy enterprise. A
                    good basis for such a dramatic presentation might be found in Mr.
                    McKnight's work, Indiana, A Drama of Progress.
            
            The pageant and the tableau have now become well known means of arousing civic
                    pride and interest in local history. They are an attractive way of vividly
                    presenting the past and at the same time of presenting a form of popular
                    entertainment in anniversary celebrations. The moving tableaux and the written
                    book together, with characters well represented and the lines well spoken, will
                    bring out pictures in history that may leave lasting impressions in the minds of
                    great masses of people.2
            
            II.
            But what we do for Indiana history should not pass with the day or the year of
                    the celebration. The centennial should produce a more abiding result. It must
                    leave us richer in historical materials, in the accessible sources from which
                    the history of the State may be written, and in creditable accounts of that
                    history. The occasion should lead the State to do more for the preservation of
                    materials for her history, and to promote the collection, editing, and
                    publication of materials that will have a value to the State for the centuries
                    to come. The State should make suitable provisions for fostering An
                        Indiana Historical Survey,—such as is already begun in
                    Indiana University. The survey should keep in view certain definite ends:
            1. The preparation and publication of a complete Bibliography of Indiana history.
                    This should present a list, with a brief description, of every known
                    work,—book, essay, pamphlet, etc.—touching any period or
                    phase of Indiana history, with a citation as to where the work may be found.
                    This should be supplied to every library in the State, so that any citizen of
                    the State who wishes to know may easily learn what books and sources are
                    available in print on the history of the State.
            
               
                  2 Illustrations of what has been done in celebrations
                        by the tableau and the pageant may be seen in an article by Mr. Herbert T.
                        Wade, "What the Pageant Does for Local History," in the
                            Review of. Reviews for September, 1913.
            
            
            2. There should be an organized and directed effort for the collection,
                    preservation, and publication of Indiana historical materials. There should be a
                    well-sustained agency constantly at work for the attainment of this end. The
                    materials that are being wasted and lost should be saved and collected, placed
                    in the proper libraries for safekeeping, catalogued and arranged for the use of
                    students and writers. Pamphlets, books, letters, documents, newspaper files,
                    journals of travel, diaries, etc., etc.—all such materials should be
                    saved from being lost or destroyed or carried away from the State. Indiana, from
                    a lack of provision and of proper public concern, has in the past been remiss in
                    this respect. The people of the State should be encouraged to save these
                    materials of their history, and to place them where they can be safeguarded and
                    be made most easily available for use.
            3. In the third place, the State should encourage and sustain the publication of
                    a series of monographs on Indiana history. Such monographs might not be
                    profitable in the book-trade, though they may be of the highest value. They
                    should show the result of a careful and scientific study of our history. They
                    can be undertaken and worthily produced only by men or women who have been
                    suitably trained for such work. Their real value will be in exact proportion as
                    they are the products of serious, scholarly, painstaking, and scientific study.
                    The centennial year will likely bring forth for sale to the public a batch of
                    mushroom writings called histories of Indiana. They will generally be the
                    products of a few months or of a single season of hurried work, based on
                    inadequate materials, and generally by persons who have few qualifications for
                    writing history Such publications will add nothing to our real knowledge of the
                    history of the State. Their prime purpose will be to make money for their
                    publishers and authors. They will be carelessly prepared, erroneous, and
                    misleading, dealing with misleading and fanciful stories and exaggerated myths.
                    To counteract such misinformed and misinforming work, it seems eminently
                    desirable that the State should undertake the publication of a series of
                    historical collections, comparable to those of 
                  Massachusetts, New
                            York, Michigan
               , etc., and such as 
                        Illinois
                     is now carrying out in such a notable way.
            The interest of every community should be aroused and to this end we believe that
                    county and local historical societies should be encouraged and increased in
                    every possible way.
            The school forces of the State should be utilized, and fhis Section of the State
                    Teachers' Association, devoted to the study and teaching  of history, should lend every possible aid in
                    developing popular interest in local history. Every added man or woman in any
                    community who becomes interested in the past life of his or her locality will
                    prove a helpful factor in the more effective work of the teacher of history and
                    civics. Effective teaching comes from effective living, and the teacher of
                    history in a community awake to the values of its past will find his work the
                    more enlivened and fruitful. Let the teacher of history be a leader in this
                    cause. His advanced pupils may become his companions and his aids in the worthy
                    work, and it will not require many devoted disciples of so good a cause, if they
                    work hand-in-hand, to bring to a community a most productive society.
            There is an organ that will enable all these forces to work together for a common
                    end. I refer to the INDIANA MAGAZINE OF
                        HISTORY. It may serve as an organ of service and
                    expression. Through it may be brought to light the discoveries that are made in
                    any part of the State, and the papers that may be written. Its issues may be the
                    means of bringing to hundreds of citizens who are already interested in the
                    history of the State matters that will seem to them of importance if not of
                    vital concern, while the indifferent may be aroused to a curiosity that may bear
                    fruit in the future. Its files will help to preserve the history of the State,
                    and will afford workable mines for future writers and historians. For every
                    reason this INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY should be fostered and sustained, its circulation
                    increased, and its messages received and heeded in every city, county, and
                    village in the State. The teachers of history will receive help from it, and
                    after providing a file for their own tables, they should strive to see to it
                    that a copy of it is placed in every school library in Indiana. In this way the
                    teachers of history who may be or may not be members of the State
                    Teachers' Association, may very effectively help to promote the cause
                    of "Indiana History and Its Celebration."
         
         
         
            THE RATIFICATION OF THE FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT IN INDIANA
            WILLIAM CHRISTIAN GERICHS, A.M., 
                        Waynetown
                    
            
            [The writer of this paper has written mainly from the original sources a detailed
                    account of the ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment in Indiana. In searching
                    for material on this subject he has found the files of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal in the University Library and the State Library, and
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, found in the same libraries, of much value. The Brevier Reports, the Senate and House Journals also proved very valuable. Not all the questions that
                    came up in connection with this work have been satisfactorily answered. In some
                    few cases it was found impossible to make all the figures given in the sources
                    work in harmony. Yet the main figures as given in this paper may be relied upon.
                    There may also be some difference of opinion in regard to the question of the
                    constitutionality of the ratification. Viewing the whole question in the light
                    of the past and the present, the writer is of the the opinion that as far as the
                    letter of the law is concerned—and law is usually interpreted in this
                    way—the Amendment was not passed. The writer received much valuable
                    assistance, for which he is truly grateful, from Dr. James A. Woodburn, Dr. E.
                    V. Shock-ley, and Dr. Logan Esarey.]
            I. ATTITUDE OF INDIANA
                        MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
                        TOWARDS THE FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT
            
            One of the main questions before Congress during the latter part of the Civil War
                    and the Reconstruction period was how to secure adequate civil and political
                    rights for the freedmen. Charles Sumner, at the close of the war, favored the
                    enfranchising of the negroes and the disfranchising of all persons of the South
                    who had taken part in the rebellion.1 It was proposed in
                    Congress to exclude southern representatives until their States should allow
                    negro suffrage.2
            
            Oliver P. Morton, then Governor of Indiana, did not think it advisable to adopt
                    this policy. His attitude on that question is plainly set forth in a speech
                    delivered at 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, September 29, 1865.3 I shall briefly
                    review that speech, to give the reader a clear idea of his views at that time.
                    In regard to the question of allowing the freedmen of the Southern States to
                    vote, Mr. Morton said: "While I admit the equal rights of all men, and
                    acknowledge that in time all men will have the right to vote without distinction
                    of color 
                  
                     1 Charles Sumner, Works, X, pp.
                            21 ff.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 2, 1865, p. 5.
                  
                            3
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     or race, I yet believe that in the case of
                    four million slaves just freed from bondage, there should be a period of
                    probation and preparation before they are brought to the exercise of political
                        power."4 He claimed that to say that those men
                    were qualified to vote would be proslavery argument, "paying the
                    highest compliment to the institution of slavery."5
            
            Mr. Morton gave as another reason for not wanting to admit the negro to power,
                    that it would be inconsistent for Indiana to say that the negro must vote in the
                    South, when under her own Constitution then'in force he was much
                    discriminated against.6 Mr. Morton said further, that if the
                    negro were enfranchised and the South should send negro Senators and
                    Representatives to Congress, "I have no doubt you will find men in the
                    North who will be willing to sit beside them, and will not think themselves
                    degraded by doing so. I have nothing to say to this. I am simply discussing the
                    political effect of this."7 He also believed that
                    if negro governments were set up in the South, white immigration from Europe and
                    the North would stop, and an "exodus" of southern whites would
                    begin.
            The question of negro suffrage, according to Mr. Morton's opinion, might
                    be solved by giving the negro political rights after "ten, fifteen, or
                    twenty" years. By that time, he believed, they would be in the minority
                    in the South, owing to immigration from the North and from Europe. Since the
                    negro could gain in population only by natural increase, he felt certain that
                    the white population would soon be in the majority in every State of the South.
                    In this 
                        Richmond
                     speech, Mr. Morton proposed reducing the representation in Congress
                    in proportion to the number of adult males not having the right of suffrage.
                    This, he believed, would induce the South to enfranchise the negro to increase
                    its representation.8
            
            In less than two years after Governor Morton had delivered his 
                        Richmond
                     speech, his views in regard to negro suffrage had changed. This was
                    after the South had rejected the Fourteenth Amendment.9
                    
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 2, 1865.
                  
                            5
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     6 Indiana's second Constitution, ratified
                            in 1851, reads (Art. XIII, sec. 1): "No negro or mulatto shall
                            come into or settle in the State, after the adoption of this
                            Constitution." Section 2 of the same article says:
                            "All contracts made with any negro or mulatto coming into the
                            State, contrary to the provisions of the foregoing section, shall be
                            void; and any person who shall employ such negro or mulatto, or
                            otherwise encourage him to remain in the State, shall be fined in any
                            sum hot less than ten dollars, nor more than five hundred
                            dollars."
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 2, 1865, p. 5.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 2, 1865, p. 5.
                  
                     9 "Before the first day of January, 1867,
                            all of these [Southern States] except three had rejected it,
                            * * * and these three followed the same
                            course a little later." Burgess, Reconstruction
                                and the Constitution, p. 106.
               
                     His opinion at that time is expressed in
                    his message of January 11, 1867, to the General Assembly of Indiana. He said in
                    part: "Ordinarily, when the country is in a normal condition, the
                    subject of suffrage is absolutely within the control of the several States.
                    … But if a State government shall fall into anarchy, or be: destroyed
                    by rebellion, and it is found clearly and unmistakably that a. new one cannot be
                    enacted and successfully maintained without conferring the right of suffrage on
                    a race or body of men to whom it has been denied by the laws of the State, it
                    would clearly be within the power of Congress to confer the right for that
                    purpose, upon the principle that it can employ the means necessary to the
                    performance of a required duty…. The power which I claim for Congress
                    is vast and dangerous, and should be exercised with deliberation, and only in
                    case of clear necessity, as it trenches directly upon the general theory and
                    structure of the government, yet it unquestionably exists."10 It would not be safe to say from this message that Mr.
                    Morton was enthusiastically in favor of enfranchising the negro, but we may
                    safely say that he considered such action in the part of Congress a possible
                    solution.
            When later Mr. Morton was one of the main advocates of negro suffrage, he was in
                    advance of the rank and file of the Republican party. The party view on this
                    question in 1868 is expressed in the Republican national platform of that year.
                    Section two of that platform reads: "The guarantee by Congress of equal
                    suffrage to all loyal men of the South was demanded by every consideration of
                    public safety, of gratitude, and of justice, and must be maintained; while the
                    question of suffrage of all loyal States properly belongs to the people of those
                    loyal States."11 When the Fifteenth Amendment was
                    being discussed in Congress, Senator Thomas A. Hendricks accused Mr. Morton
                    (then Senator) of inconsistency on the question of suffrage.12 At a previous time both Senator Hendricks and Senator Dixon of 
                        Connecticut
                     had said that, according to the 
                        Chicago
                     platform, the Republican party could take no action on the question
                    of negro suffrage, since it had committed itself to the doctrine that in the
                    loyal States suffrage should be left to the States. Mr. Morton had answered this
                    by saying that the resolution merely stated the constitutional position of the
                    party, as the Constitution then stood; but it certainly did not mean to say that
                    at no time would the party propose to change it on that subject.13
            
            
               
                  10
                        House Journal, 1867, p. 50 (Jan. 11).
               
                  11
                        Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, p. 673.
               
                  12
                        Ibid., p. 1314.
               
                  13
                        Ibid., p. 861.
            
            
            Mr. Morton took an active part in the debates on the Fifteenth Amendment. He
                    favored it because he felt that negro suffrage was necessary for establishing
                    loyal Republican government in the South, and because, as he believed, it would
                    afford adequate protection for the negroes. This latter reason is brought out in
                    his speech in the Senate on February 8, 1869. "It is
                    admitted," he said, "by all these Senators [Hendricks of
                    Indiana, Davis of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Salisbury of 
                        Delaware
                    ] at the same time that the negro is a kindly race; it is not a
                    savage race; and it is a Christian race in this country, as much as the white
                    race; but they say that they are of inferior intellect, not capable of the same
                    development and progress as the white race. Suppose we grant all this; I ask if
                    it is not a reason why these men should have the ballot put into their hands by
                    which they may protect and take care of themselves? … The weak
                    require to be furnished with the means of protection. In this country there is
                    no protection for civil and political rights outside of the ballot."14
            
            Mr. Hendricks, on the other hand, opposed the amendment. He believed, as stated
                    above, that the Republican party was pledged to leave the question of suffrage
                    to the loyal States. He gave as another reason for opposing it that he was
                    "in favor of men voting in this country who belong to the white race
                    and conduct themselves properly."15 A third reason
                    for opposing it was that the party in the majority was favoring the
                    enfranchising of the negro for political gain. On February 17, while speaking on
                    the suffrage amendment, he said: "You care for your own purposes. What
                    are they? … To throw a political power in favor of your party that
                    you do not now possess, to secure a vote that the people will not give
                        you."16
            
            It appears that Mr. Hendricks felt, probably as soon as the Fifteenth Amendment
                    was introduced, that it would pass in spite of the united opposition of the
                    Democrats in Congress. In a speech in the Senate on January 28,17 he said that the amendment, if proposed, ought to be ratified by the
                    most democratic way under the present Constitution and laws. Since universal
                    suffrage was not a question at the time the present legislatures were elected,
                    ratification ought to be postponed till the next legislatures, when the people
                    would have had a chance to express themselves. He was not 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., p. 990.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., p. 990.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., p. 1314.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., p. 678.
               
                     sure that Congress had the right to place
                    this restriction on the State legislatures. By February 17, he believed that
                    Congress did have the right to make such a restriction. The amendment was then
                    before the Senate in the following form: "The right of the citizens of
                    the 
                        United States
                     to vote and hold office shall not be denied or abridged by the 
                        United States
                     or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of
                        servitude."18 To this Mr. Hendricks offered the
                    following amendment: "That the foregoing amendment shall be submitted
                    for ratification to the legislatures of the several States, the most numerous
                    branch of which shall be chosen next after the passage of the
                        resolution."19 An amendment to the effect that
                    both branches of the legislature were to be elected after the passage of the
                    resolution had been voted down at a previous time.20 Mr.
                    Hendricks's motion was voted down by a vote of 40 to 12. Had this
                    amendment been accepted Indiana history in relation to the amendment would
                    probably be different from what it is.
            The amendment in the form given above was not all that Mr. Morton wanted. He said
                    that he would vote for it if none better could be had. His reason for
                    dissatisfaction with it was that negroes were saved from denial of the right to
                    vote or hold office on only three grounds—"race, color, or
                    previous condition of servitude"—, but might be denied these
                    on any other grounds.21 This would permit the States to
                    require educational or property qualifications; or they might even exclude the
                    negro on the ground of "being naturally inferior in point of intellect
                    and disqualified to take part in the administration of government."32 Subsequent events have abundantly justified these fears.
                    Mr. Morton believed that the amendment ought to be so drawn up as to make such
                    action impossible, and make suffrage uniform in all the States.23
            
            Five days later, February 9, Senator Morton introduced a resolution to amend the
                    Constitution so as to give Congress the power to prescribe the manner of
                    choosing the presidential electors. This would take that power away from the
                    State legislatures. The first vote on this amendment was 27
                    yeas, 29 nays. The amendment was 
                  
                     18
                            Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, p. 1311. This is the
                            form in which the amendment finally passed. The clause:
                            "Congress shall have the power to enforce this article by
                            appropriate legislation" also belongs to the finished
                            enactment.
                  
                     19
                            Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, p. 1311.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., p. 1311.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., p. 863 (Feb. 4, 1869).
                  
                            22
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            23
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     renewed on the same day, and passed by a
                    vote of 37 to 19; but it was voted down in the House.
            It was a hard matter for the two houses of Congress to agree on the form of the
                    Fifteenth Amendment. A conference committee was called into being to smooth over
                    the main points of difference. As recommended by that committee, it was not what
                    many of its supporters believed it should be; but they wanted an amendment
                    giving the right of suffrage to the negro passed before the close of the
                    session, and had to take what they could get. On February 17 Mr. Morton said in
                    the Senate: "Every day that is now lost in passing this amendment
                    through Congress endangers its adoption by the States…. I hope
                    therefore that no other measure will be allowed to be considered until the
                    constitutional amendment is disposed of."24
            
            While Senator Morton was anxious to hurry the amendment through Congress before
                    the end of the session, Senator Hendricks was just as anxious to keep it from
                    passing. He felt that much might be gained and nothing lost by delay. He
                    believed that two-thirds of the newly-elected House would not favor such an
                    amendment, after their constituents had had no opportunity to express their
                    sentiments on that subject.25
            
            The vote on the report of the Conference Committee was taken in the House on
                    February 25. It resulted in 144 yeas, 44 nays, and not voting 35.26 The vote in the Senate on the following day showed yeas 39, nays
                    13, absent 14.27 The Speaker of the House signed the
                    proposed amendment on February 26.
            
               
                  24
                        Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, pp. 1631-3 (Feb. 26,
                        1869).
               
                  25
                        Ibid., p. 1563.
               
                  26
                        Ibid., p. 1641.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., p. 1641. Indiana was represented in the Senate by
                        Thomas A. Hendricks (Dem.) and Oliver P. Morton (Rep.). In the House she was
                        represented by the following Democrats: W. S. Holman (
                            Aurora
                        ), Michael C. Kerr (New-
                            Albany
                        ), William E. Niblack (
                            Vincennes
                        ; and the following Republicans: John Coburn (
                            Indianapolis
                        ), Schuyler Colfax (
                            South Bend
                        ), Morton C. Hunter (
                            Bloomington
                        ), George W. Julian (Centreville), Godlove S. Orth (
                            Lafayette
                        ), John P. C. Shanks (
                            Jay County
                        ), Henry D. Washburn (Clinton), and William Williams (
                            Warsaw
                        ). I have practically confined myself to the attitude of the two
                        Senators. This is because they may be considered the leaders of their
                        respective parties. Senator Morton, elected to the Senate in January, 1867,
                        was somewhat in advance of the ideas of the majority of his party, while
                        Senator Hendricks voiced the sentiment of the vast majority of the Democrats
                        of Indiana. I have said nothing about the part the members of the House took
                        on this Question for the reason that t!:ey took little part in the
                        discussion, and when they did it was along party lines. George W. Julian
                        made known his views on the negro question in general by his resolution to
                        the Judiciary Committee demanding an inquiry regarding the report that
                        slavery still existed in 
                            Kentucky
                        . His remarks show that he was ready to insist on what he
                        considered the negro's rights
            
            
            II. THE FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT BEFORE THE
                        REGULAR SESSION OF
                        THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF INDIANA, 1869
            Before taking up the proceedings over the Fifteenth Amendment, I shall consider
                    briefly the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments in the General Assembly of
                    Indiana. This may give the reader a better understanding of the action on the
                    Fifteenth Amendment.
            Governor Morton, on February 6, 1865, sent the Thirteenth Amendment to the
                        Senate;28 on the following day he sent it to the
                        House.29 It passed the Senate on February 10, by a vote
                    of 26 to 22; 30 the House, on February 13, by a vote of 56
                    to 29.31
            
            Paris C. Dunning in the Senate claimed there had been a little program to break
                    up that body and thus prevent the passage of the amendment.32 This assertion may have been based partly on the absence, according to
                    the Brevier Reports, of a number of Democrats. Mr. Bennett
                    claimed there was fair evidence that the Democrats intended to bolt.33
            
            The Fourteenth Amendment34 was taken up by the Senate of the
                    General Assembly of Indiana on January 11, 1867,35 and
                    passed by that body on January 16, by a vote of 29 to 18.36
                    It was reconsidered on January 18, and passed a second time by a vote of 30 to
                        16.37
                    
                  
                            (Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, p. 286; January 11,
                            1869). Michael Kerr called the bill granting suffrage to the negro, a
                            scheme to retain the power for the Republican party. He opposed that
                            bill. (Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, p. 653 ff.)
                            John P. C. Shanks expressed himself as being in favor of the suffrage
                            amendment. (Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, p. 692.)
                            At various times W. E. Niblack let it be known that be was opposed to
                            negro suffrage. (Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, pp.
                            567, 742, 744, 745.) On the report of the Conference
                            Committee—the Fifteenth Amendment in its final
                            form—the Indiana representatives both in the House and the
                            Senate divided according to party. All the Republicans voted for it, all
                            the Democrats against it. (Globe, 3d Session, 40th
                            Congress, pp. 1563 and 1641.)
                  
                     28
                            Senate Journal, 1869, p. 265. Its provisions, it will
                            be recalled, are as follows: "Sec. 1. Neither slavery nor
                            involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the
                            party shall have duly been convicted, shall exist within the 
                                United States
                             or any place subject to their jurisdiction. Sec. 2.
                            Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
                            legislation."
                  
                     29
                            House Journal, 1869, p. 323.
                  
                     30
                            Brevier Reports, VII, p. 201. The vote as first taken
                            was 26 to 9, to which 13 nays were added later. Senate
                                Journal, p. 315, says the vote was 26 to 24. In either case the
                            amendment passed the Senate legally.
                  
                     31
                            House Journal, p. 396; Brevier
                            Reports, VII, p. 238.
                  
                     32
                            Brevier Reports, VII, p. 202.
                  
                     33
                            Brevier Reports, VII, p. 202.
                  
                     34 It is too long to quote here. It is usually
                            spoken of as the amendment granting citizenship to the negro.
                  
                     35
                            Senate Journal, p. 46.
                  
                     36
                            Senate Journal, p. 79; Brevier
                            Reports, IX, p. 46.
                  
                     37
                            Senate Journal, p. 96; Brevier
                            Reports, IX, p. 56, gives the vote as 29 to 16.
               
                     It passed the House on January 23, by a
                    vote of 56 to 36.38 There was no mention, so far as I can
                    find, of an attempted bolt or revolutionary act to defeat this amendment. There
                    certainly was no question about the legality of the ratification of the
                    Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments by the General Assembly of Indiana.
            On March 1, 1869, Governor Baker sent the following message to both houses of the
                    General Assembly of Indiana: "Gentlemen of the Senate and
                        House of Representatives: I herewith respectfully submit to the General
                    Assembly a joint resolution of the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    , on the subject of suffrage, comprising two sections'and
                    designated as Article XV. The original copy of said joint resolution received by
                    me is transmitted with this resolution to the House of Representatives, and a
                    transcript thereof to the Senate."39 On motion of
                    James Hughes, of 
                        Monroe county
                    , this message was made the special order for March 4, at 2:30 p.m.
            Whether or not the Democratic members had agreed on a method of procedure is
                    doubtful. It does seem that two days later (March 3) some sort of a plan must
                    have been formulated and understood, in part at least, by both Democrats and
                    Republicans. On this day George A. Buskirk, of 
                        Monroe
                    , moved that the Governor's message be made the special
                    order for the next day (Thursday, March 4) at 2 o'clock p.m. James D.
                    Williams, of 
                        Knox
                    , moved to amend that motion by proposing to make the resolution
                    relating to the suffrage amendment the special order for Saturday (March 6).40 He said he offered this because the suffrage amendment
                    was a "firebrand" and might interrupt necessary legislation
                    yet to be enacted. He said further that the minority were willing to assist in
                    passing all necessary legislation, but hoped that no such
                    "firebrand" would be thrown into the House and thus retard
                    legislation or defeat it altogether.
            Mr. Buskirk answered Mr. Williams by saying that the matter called a
                    "firebrand" was only a constitutional amendment that demanded
                    attention at an early date. He said that it had been postponed so that important
                    legislation might be passed, but that the majority was now determined to take up
                    the matter to-morrow (Thursday, March 4); and that they were willing to let the
                    responsibility fall on the minority if the action should fail by any
                    "irregular or revolutionary course."41
            
            
               
                  38
                        House Journal, p. —; Brevier
                            Reports, IX, p. 90, gives the vote as 55 to 36.
               
                  39
                        House Journal, Regular Session, 1869, p. 884.
               
                  40
                        Brevier Reports, X, p. 589; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, March 6, 1869.
               
                  41
                        Brevier Reports, X, p. 589.
            
            
            Mr. Coffroth said much necessary legislation was still to be enacted. In his
                    opinion the suffrage amendment ought not to be taken up before the people of
                    Indiana had had a chance to express their opinion on it. In the last campaign
                    both parties had denied any intention of fastening negro suffrage on the people;
                    to adopt it now would be a "fraud upon the people." He
                    asserted that the minority would resist its passage by proper means, and be
                    prepared to take the responsibility that might follow such a course.42
            
            Mr. Williams's amendment failed by a vote of 41 to 53. Mr.
                    Buskirk's motion to make the resolution the special order of the day
                    for 2 p.m., Thursday, March 4, was accepted.43
            
            On the following day (March 4) the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal printed an editorial on the "Democratic
                    Bolt." According to this editorial it was rumored that the Democrats of
                    both Houses had caucused until 12 o'clock the night before, and had
                    decided to "stave off" action on the constitutional amendment.
                    It adds: "If they do, that will close up legislation for the present
                    term with the most important work yet to be done."44
            
            The rumor must have been well founded, for on the same day that this article
                    appeared seventeen Senators and thirty-seven Representatives, all Democrats,
                        resigned.45 On the same day, and in the same message in
                    which Governor Baker notified the House of this resignation, he stated that
                    writs were being prepared for a special election to be held on March 23.46 Three Democratic Senators and six Democratic
                    Representatives did not resign.47 They themselves claimed
                    they had been asked by their colleagues to remain and guard the interests of
                    their party.48 The opposition claimed they had not resigned
                    because they had a wholesome fear they could not be reelected.49 They claimed that none resigned who did not believe he had a safe
                    chance of reelection.50
            
            
               
                  42
                        Ibid., p. 690.
               
                  43
                        Ibid., X, p. 690.
               
                  44
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 4, 1869, p. 8, col. 2.
               
                  45
                        House Journal, Reg. Ses., 1869, p. 893; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, March 11, 1869. One more Democrat, Mr. Ghormley, of 
                            New Albany
                        , resigned on the following day, making 38 Representatives in
                        all. (
                            New Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, March 8, 1569, p. 1, col. 5.) Foulkes Life of Morton, II, p. 112, says that 41 Representatives
                        resigned. This cannot be correct.
               
                  46
                        House Journal, Regular Session, p. 893; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 5, 1869.
               
                  47
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Sentinel, March 5, 1869, p. 2, says
                        "seven" of the House: did not resign; but since Mr.
                        Ghormley resigned on that very day, I say "six."
               
                  48
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Sentinel, March 5, 1869, p. 2, col. 1.
               
                  49
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 5, 1869, p. 4, col. 4. Mr. Coffroth had
                        been elected by a majority of seven votes. Brevier
                        Reports, X, p. 593.
               
                  50
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 6, 1869, p. 4, col. 4. This same article
                        says
            
            
            As far as can be ascertained from contemporary newspapers, there were only two
                    opinions concerning the resignation of these Senators and Representatives.
                    Democrats applauded the act, while Republicans spoke of it in terms that cannot
                    be called complimentary. One 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper51 claimed that Indiana had a double cause
                    to rejoice on March 4; because of the exit of Andrew Johnson, and because of the
                    resignation of the Democratic legislators. It added that "never was a
                    State cursed with such a gang of scoundrels." It printed the names of
                    the Senators and Representatives who resigned under the caption, "Roll
                    of Infamy."
            Another 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper,52 under the title of
                    "Democratic Folly," said that Democracy would go before the
                    people with a bad cause, for they conspired to defeat legislation. It would have
                    been a better plan, so it claimed, to have permitted the majority to pass the
                    amendment, since it was sure to pass sooner or later.
            The Indiana Radical
               53 severely criticised
                    the action of the minority. It claimed that the heavy expense growing out of
                    their resignation was due to the action of the Democrats. At the time of
                    resignation the legislature had passed no appropriations except those for the
                    current expenses of the legislature. Those who resigned drew full pay up to the
                    night of March 3, and a full allowance of stationery and stamps.54 This same paper reported that one of those departing solons traded
                    postage stamps for a plow.55 The Evening
                    Mirror treated the failure of the General Assembly to pass general
                    appropriations in a humorous way, by saying that such failure had embarrassed
                    the papers as well as the people. "We can stand it," says the
                        Mirror, "but it will go hard with the Sentinel and the Journal.
               56
            
            
                that the "bolters" also made a safe thing of their full
                        pay, as far as possible, before they resigned. They are also accused,
                        perhaps not unjustly, of carrying off large quantities of postage stamps.
               
                  51
                        Daily Evening Commercial (Rep.), March 4, 1869, p. 1, col.
                        4.
               
                  52
                        Daily ‘Evening Mirror (Indep. Rep.), March 4,
                        1869, p. 2, col. 1.
               
                  53
                        Indiana Radical, 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana (Rep.), March 11, ‘69, p. 1, col. 8.
               
                  54 "They clutched per diem and mileage and
                        cribbed fifty dollars' worth of postage stamps and stationery
                        each." (
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 6, 1869, p. 4, col. 2.)
               
                  55 "One of the conscientious bolters
                        yesterday ‘turned an honest penny ’ by exchanging
                        $18 worth of postage stamps, paid for by the money of the State,
                        for a couple of plows. Here is a fine example of a retired statesman
                        imitating the high Roman fashion of Cincinnatus." 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 6, 1869, p. 4, col. 1.) The Evening Mirror (March 5, 1869, p. 2, col. 1) says that Democrats
                        and Republicans alike have been trading postage stamps for "boots,
                        whiskey, and other refreshments."
               
                  56 "
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 5, 1869, p. 4, col. 1.
            
            
            The Taeglicher Telegraph?7
                agreed with the
                    papers cited in condemning the action of the Democrats. It called their action
                    "small or even childish." Its editor asserted: "Had
                    they [Democrats] informed the Republicans of their intention to resign on
                    account of the constitutional amendment, they [Republicans] would certainly, for
                    the welfare of our State, have refrained from considering it at that
                    time." The facts of the case would hardly support this patriotic view.
            The leading counsel for the defense in this case is the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel.53
                It approves of the action of
                    the Democrats because of the unyielding attitude of the majority. Both parties
                    had pledged themselves, so it claims, in the last campaign to leave the question
                    of suffrage to the States. Congress had not lived up to this pledge, and the
                    majority of the members of the General Assembly were pledged to vote for it, so
                    the only alternative left to the minority was to resign, which they did. The
                    same editorial claims that if Mr. Williams's amendment to postpone
                    consideration of the amendment until Saturday (March 6) had been accepted, all
                    legislation could have passed, and the cost of an extra election and extra
                    session would not have been necessary. This extra cost, the Sentinel claims, was plainly due to the action of the majority. The
                    editor, on. another page of this same paper, agrees with the Journal that the Democrats resigned to prevent the adoption of
                    universal suffrage; that they defeated the well-laid plans of the majority
                    "by the only certain remedy left them—the resignation of
                    their seats."
            The 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger comments on the cost of an extra session in these
                    words: "It is evident that Governor Baker was determined to put the
                    people of the Democratic counties to this extra expense, for despicable party
                    purposes, and as a punishment for the refusal of their Senators and
                    Representatives to sanction his favorite doctrine of negro
                        suffrage."59
            
            Indiana Democrats in 
                        Washington
                     sent the following telegram to their friends at home.60
                    "To the People of Indiana: It is the highest right of
                    the people to vote upon every proposition to change the Constitution or to
                    revolutionize their domestic policy. The question of suffrage has never
                    heretofore been submitted to the people of Indiana. The resignation of the
                    Democratic members of the legislature, in order to give the people a chance to
                    determine this great 
                  
                     57
                            Taeglicher Telegraph (Rep.), March 4, 1869, p. 1, col.
                            2.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel (Dem.), March 6, 1869, p. 1, col. 1.
                  
                     59
                            
                                New Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger (Dem.), March 10, 1869, p. 1, col. 4.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, March 6, 1869, p. 2, col. 1.
               
                     question at the ballot-box for themselves,
                    is an act of self-sacrificing patriotism61 deserving the
                    admiration and support of the whole people." (Signed: T. A. Hendricks,
                    W. E. Niblack, William S. Hoi man, M. C. Kerr).
            The Democratic side of the question is argued in detail in the "Address
                    of Democratic Members of the Legislature."62 This
                    address opens with the statement that this is a white man's
                    government—made by white men, for white men. It supports this
                    statement by citing clauses in the State Constitution excluding free negroes and
                    giving the right of suffrage to "every male citizen" only. The
                    negro race is a subordinate and inferior race. The right of a State to regulate
                    its suffrage has never been questioned. The dominant party has disregarded these
                    principles both North and South. The Democratic party charged that
                    "there was a settled purpose on the part of the party
                    managers—especially in the East—of the Republican party to
                        force negro suffrage, and equality, legal and social, of
                    the races upon the people." The last Republican State convention
                    claimed that giving the ballot to the negro of the South was a necessity, but
                    the right of suffrage in the loyal States belonged to the people of those
                    States. The Democratic platform of the same year expressed itself in favor of
                    "regulating the elective franchise in the States by their
                    citizens." The Republican speakers of the last canvass pointed to the
                    planks of their platform as the views of the party and thereby won the victory.
            The "Address" affirms with much emphasis that the bonded and
                    manufacturing interests see their power slipping away, and want to enfranchise
                    the negro—whose vote they hope to control—to retain
                    political power. If they entertained this idea before election, they are guilty
                    of fraud and treachery. When the question of giving the vote to some 600,000
                    persons is considered, the voice of the people should be taken. "Even
                    in 
                        England
                    , lately, when the question of the extension of suffrage to persons
                    not before exercising it, was agitated, the Queen prorogued Parliament, and sent
                    the members to the people to take their voice in the matter by way of a new
                    election. This was the action of a monarchial government, and certainly much
                    more should the principle prevail in a country in which it is 
                  
                     61 The Daily Evening Commercial
                            (March 6, 1869, p. 2, col. 2) comments on the "self-sacrificing
                            patriotism" of the persons mentioned in this message. It claims
                            that the members who had resigned their seats could at most lose four
                            days ’ pay ($20); but this at a heavy public
                            expense.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, March 6, 1869, p. 2, cols. 2 and 3. The next
                            two or three pages constitute a review of this address. Unless another
                            reference is given, the reader will understand that the authority just
                            cited is to be taken.
               
                     said the ‘voice of the people is
                    the voice of God. ’ Then let us consult that voice."
            The authors of this "Address" feel certain that the people do
                    not want negro suffrage. They offer as evidence the fact that that question was
                    submitted, in the last few years, to the people of 
                  Connecticut, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Kansas
                    , and was voted down in every one of these States. The Republican
                    party proposes the suffrage amendment now, so that, if passed, the opposition
                    may have died down sufficiently before the next election to enable them to carry
                    that election by the addition of the negro vote. They are trying to force the
                    people to their views. "We desire to consult the people, and not only
                    so, but obey their wishes when expressed fully and fairly."
            The Republicans talk a great deal about defeating appropriations. The Democrats
                    are not responsible for this. The Committee on Ways and Means did not introduce
                    these appropriation bills until a late date. The Democrats then asked, both
                    publicly in the House and privately, that the suffrage amendment be postponed
                    for only two days so that necessary legislation might be passed. The majority
                    refused to do this. Furthermore, the Governor had given no assurance that no
                    extra session would be called even if the appropriation bills were passed.
                    Rather than grant a postponement of the suffrage amendment for two days, the
                    majority were willing to let deaf and dumb, insane, and disabled soldiers and
                    their widows and orphans, be without support. "In other words they
                    thrust the negro in advance of everything. They subordinate the interests of
                    those who cannot speak to make known their wants; of those whose maniacal
                    ravings or imbecile tones command our attention; of the weeping widow, the
                    wailing orphan, and the crippled soldier—all, all, are lost sight of
                    in the effort to establish legal and social equality of the degraded colored
                    race with the superior white race."
            That social equality was being aimed at they thought was evident. The Legislature
                    a few days before had asked to have colored and white children placed in the
                    same school, and the matter was to be taken up again by the special session.
                    Both the Governor and Superintendent of Public Instruction claimed that the
                    policy heretofore followed was "illiberal" and
                    "unconstitutional." The latter is quoted as having said:
                    "The Son of God, when he clothed himself in flesh, took neither the
                    Caucasian (White) nor African (Black) type, but a medium between them."
            The Republicans, the "Address" continued, try to make much of
                         the fact that each county having a
                    special election will have an extra expense of $1000. This extra
                    expense might have been avoided by combining the special with the regular April
                    election—only twelve days later than the special election. The fact
                    that the Governor set the special election on a separate day is nothing less
                    than "spite work to punish constituents for sending hard-headed
                    representatives."
            The "Address" closes with the following appeal: "If
                    all legal and constitutional barriers and middle walls of partition between the
                    two races are to be broken down; if our schools are to be thrown open, or our
                    school funds, raised by white men, are to be divided with this people; and if
                    they are to vote, and hold office, and sit as jurors,—then will our
                    whole State be flooded by this population. If they labor they will come in
                    competition with, and strike down the wages of, white men and women; if they
                    will not labor, then our pauper asylums, jails, and penitentiaries will be
                    filled with them. Holding these views, the only remedy left in our hands to
                    prevent the ratification of this great iniquity was to restore to you, as the
                    fountain head, the offices bestowed upon us, and take your opinion as to whether
                    we have reflected your will and have stood faithfully by the trust you reposed
                    in us. We hope, if you approve of these doctrines and actions of your
                    representatives, that you will be willing to come out and devote one day to the
                    establishment of principle."63
            
            The introductory remarks of this "Address," dealing with the
                    "white man's government," needs no discussion, since
                    we know that doctrine has long since outlived its usefulness. We also know that
                    the much-dreaded social equality64 has failed to become the
                    fashion. The "Address" certainly lost strength by devoting so
                    much time and space to the doctrine of a "white man's
                    government" and to the denunciation of the much-dreaded social
                    equality, instead of concentrating its fife on the legal and constitutional side
                    of the question.
            The Republican side of the suffrage amendment controversy is best treated in the
                    "Address of the Republican Members of the Legislature to the People of
                    the State of Indiana."65 I shall give 
                  
                     63 Signed by Senators J. M. Hanna, Wilson Smith,
                            Archibald Johnson, O. Bird, and Representatives J. R. Coffroth, J. P.
                            Welborn, C. R. Cory, W. T. Carnahan.
                  
                     64 On the subject of "social
                            equality" the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (March 8, 1869, p. 4, col. 2) says:
                            "But these Democrats can never be cured of their fear that if a
                            negro be allowed to vote he will marry some Democratic old maid in spite
                            of her teeth and claws, or negro wenches may marry them against all
                            their * * * antipathies. They can
                            protect themselves against white women, but the moment a darky wench
                            brings her fascinations to bear upon him, he is gone."
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 8, 1869, p. 2, cols. 3, 4 and 5.
               
                     the main facts of that argument, and quote
                    from it where it expresses the thought better and more forcibly than a
                    condensation could do.
            On Thursday morning seventeen Senators and thirty-seven Representatives, all
                    Democrats, resigned.66 Their reason for resigning was to
                    defeat action on the Fifteenth Amendment. The resignation broke the quorum when
                    all necessary legislation might have been passed in the three remaining days.
                    Many important measures were just about ready for the final vote; the main one
                    of these was the appropriation bill. All work was stopped by the revolutionary
                    action of the minority.
            The Fifteenth Amendment came to the Governor, was submitted to the legislature
                    and made the special order for Thursday, March 4, at 2:30 p.m., "without an opposing voice." The Democrats were
                    assured that it would not be taken up before, but that the regular order of
                    business would be followed until the amendment should be reached. The
                    resignations were handed to the Governor at'8:30 a.m. on Thursday,
                    March 4.
            In the five and one-half hours between the time of resignation and the time set
                    for taking up the amendment, the appropriation bill, making unnecessary an extra
                    session, might have been passed. This bill had already passed the House, had
                    been read once in the Senate, was then before the finance committee of the
                    Senate, and might have been disposed of by 11 o'clock of that day. Had
                    it been passed the expense of the present legislature ($100,000)
                    would not have been totally lost, and the cost of the extra session
                    ($50,000) might have been avoided. The disregard for public official
                    obligation, the principle involved, means much more. "Obedience to
                    government, is the only hope of a free republican government."
            The Democrats had not the slightest assurance that the amendment would have been
                    passed; strong probability of acceptance is no excuse for their action. It would
                    probably have passed the House, but not more than twenty-three votes could be
                    counted for it in the Senate. All of the twenty Democrats and three of the
                    Republicans were opposed to the amendment. Three other Republicans were
                    personally opposed to it, but would not commit themselves; and one Republican
                    was absent on account of sickness. The Republicans were uncertain, the Democrats
                    ignorant; yet the latter were willing to risk ruin for personal and party
                    motives. "This is 
                  
                     66 I shall present the argument as the
                            "Address" of the Republicans did. Unless another
                            authority is cited, the last one given is to be taken.
               
                     the questionable virtue and patriotism that
                    nourished and developed, in its power for evil, the late Rebellion; it is the
                    political material beneath which all free governments have heretofore been
                    buried, and a wise and judicious people will look well to it that the same means
                    shall not be employed for our overthrow which are found mingled with the ruins
                    of the republics of former ages."
            The Democrats have no excuse for resigning, since they claim an amendment
                    ratified by one legislature may be repealed by a succeeding one. 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                     acted that way on the Fourteenth Amendment; Indiana might have done
                    the same with the Fifteenth.
            They care little for extra expense, and shamelessly attack Governor Baker for not
                    having the vacancies filled on the day of the April election. The present
                    appropriations expire the last of March. To meet the current expenses the
                    Governor would have to borrow money or draw on the treasury in violation of law.
            The plea is made that the minority wish to consult the people. The people gave
                    Congress and the legislatures the right to make amendments. Congress proposed
                    the amendment legally, the Governor certified it properly and submitted it to
                    the State Legislature. "All this they know; they knew their duty and
                    did it not, but calumniate the majority because they, too, would not in a like
                    faithless manner, by agreement with them, abandon their post of duty and
                    service, to engage in a worse than useless contest over an exciting question,
                    before the people, when the highest authority, that of the people through the
                    Constitution, had clothed the legislature with power to dispose of the
                    matter."
            The majority of those who resigned will probably be reelected. It is a question
                    whether they will do their duty in the special session, or be bolder and more
                    defiant than ever. Judging from the speeches at Metropolitan Hall67 of last Friday night, the "disgraceful scenes and base
                    portrayal of public trust" will be repeated. The result of such action
                    would be widespread suffering among the State's wards. The soldier and
                    those depending on him are referred to in these words: "Their poverty,
                    wounds, and helpless condition commend them to the gratitude of the nation; but
                    those public servants would turn them loose, without home or food, rather than
                    forego the opportunity of betraying the public trust in obedience to insane
                    party prejudice."
            
               
                  67 A meeting- was held at Metropolitan Hall on the
                        night of March 5, 1869, by-persons opposed to the ratification' of
                        the amendment (Sentinel,, March 5, 1869, p. 2, col.
                    1).
            
            
            The Republican "Address" closes with this appeal:
                    "There is a remedy, and only one, and that remedy is to be found in the
                    good sense, the integrity, and patriotism of the people; and to that remedy we
                    now appeal—being fully assured that their approbation will not be
                    withheld from the faithful law-abiding representatives who desire to do their
                    whole duty, that it may be bestowed upon the lawless public servants who seek
                    the triumph of a political party at the sacrifice of the public welfare. To the
                    people we say, and especially the people in whose districts Senators and
                    Representatives are now to be chosen, this remedy is in your hands; employ it
                    for your own good and the good of the public. You may have your political
                    preferences, you may have partisan favorites, but your love of home and family,
                    of order and harmony, of security and peace, will outlast all such
                    predilections. Use the power in your hands to promote order, law, and good
                    government, and you will not again be called upon to supply vacancies in office,
                    voluntarily made by reckless politicians, with men who will be true to the
                    obligations of duty and public conscience."68
            
            That the Republican members of the legislature had their argument put up in
                    better form than their Democratic opponents can hardly be questioned; still it
                    has more than one Achilles' heel. The "Address" says
                    that the appropriations might have been passed if the Democrats had remained in
                    the General Assembly up to the time set for considering the suffrage amendment.
                    Such could only have been done—a thing unusual and probably unheard
                    of—by limiting the discussion very much and accepting the measure
                    without amendments. The action of the special session is strong proof against
                    this assertion of the Republicans.
            The Republicans also say that the amendment was not sure of a majority vote in
                    both houses. It was not so sure, perhaps, as death or taxes, but according to
                    the evidence of the Republicans themselves, the Democrats can hardly be accused
                    of taking fright without cause.
            The reference to the right claimed by the Democrats to rescind the act of one
                    legislature by the succeeding one may have had weight at the time the address
                    was written, but subsequent events have proved conclusively the worthlessness of
                    this argument.69 If the 
                  
                     68 This "Address" was signed by
                            John C. Cravens and John A. Stein, Senators; A. P. Stanton, Speaker;
                            George A. Buskirk and Milton A. Osborn, Representatives.
                  
                     69 The Democratic legislature of 1871 proceeded to
                            rescind the Fifteenth Amendment. On January 30 of that year the Senate
                            by a vote of 26 to 20 decided to
               
                     regular session of 1869 had ratified the
                    Fifteenth Amendment, no subsequent action—assuming that no special
                    session would have been called—could have been taken before January,
                    1871. Before that time the amendment had received the necessary support of
                    three-fourths of the States (as the powers that were at that time construed it),
                    and was proclaimed as part of the Constitution.70
            
            The Republican defense of Governor Baker for failing to have the vacancies in the
                    General Assembly filled on the day of the regular spring election is weak
                    indeed. I fail to find that a delay of twelve days, which this would have
                    necessitated, would have added much, if anything, to the distress of the persons
                    named.
            The Republican appeal, however, is pitched on a higher plane than that of the
                    Democrats. The former appeals to the patriotism of the people, the latter to
                    their race prejudice.
            III. SPECIAL ELECTION AND SPECIAL SESSION
            
            The same message of Governor Baker to the House of Representatives which informed
                    that body officially of the resignation of thirty-seven of their number,
                    announced also that writs were being prepared ordering a special election to
                    fill the vacancies caused by the resignations, to be held on March 23.71
            
            The campaign was a short one. The Democratic papers expressed confidence that the
                    so-called bolters would be reelected, while the Republican papers confined
                    themselves largely to discussing what these "bolters" deserve.
                    The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal resorts to some ridicule in dealing with this subject.
                    On the day of the special election (March 23) it has this to say about the fear
                    of the Democrats that about 6,000 negroes in Indiana may be given the ballot:
                        72 "We have the most solemn assurance from the
                    Democratic press and orators that, if Sambo is permitted to vote, white
                    Democrats must marry ‘nigger ’ wives, and blooming damsels
                    of Democratic parentage will seek husbands among the comely sons of
                    Ham."
            
               rescind it (Sentinel, Jan. 31, 1871; Brevier Reports, XII, pp. 144 and 177). On February 7, the House,
                        by a vote of 47 to 43, decided to refer this amendment to the Committee on
                        Federal Relations (
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, March 8, 1871; Brevier
                        Reports, XII, p. 236). Any action of this kind was useless as the
                        following note shows.
               
                  70 Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State, on March 30,
                        1870, announced that twenty-nine States (including Indiana), the necessary
                        three-fourths, had ratified the amendment and that it was now in force (.Globe, 2d Session, 40th Congress, pt. 3, p. 2290).
               
                  71 House Journal, Regular Session,
                        1869, p. 893. The Message is dated March 4, 1869. 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 5, 1869, p. 4, col. 1.
               
                  72
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 23, 1869, p. 4, col. 4.
            
            
            Early returns of the special election showed that the Democrats had been
                    successful. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel of March 2473 says that the
                    returns are meager, but that it is practically sure that all the Democrats are
                    elected except Mr. Huey. His district was changed in 1867, and at the time of
                    the special election was composed of Grant, 
                        Blackford
                    , and 
                        Jay counties
                    . In the last election these three counties showed a Republican
                    majority of 382. On the following day the election of Mr. Huey was also
                    conceded, making it a complete victory for the Democrats.
            The Republicans, so far as I can find out, did not make any claims, but contented
                    themselves with trying to minimize the Democratic victory.74
            
            A careful study of the returns of the special election, so far as these are
                    available, shows that the Republicans took little interest in the contest. Of
                    the seventeen Senators elected, seven were elected without a dissenting vote.
                    Fourteen out of the thirty-eight Representatives had no opposition.75
            
            Governor Baker called the special session of the General Assembly76 to meet at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 2 p.m. on Thursday, April 8, 1869. In this call and in his
                    message to the special session77 he gave as his reason the
                    failure of the regular session to pass the necessary appropriations, but did not
                    so much as mention the Fifteenth Amendment.
            Pursuant to this call, the Indiana legislators reported at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the specified time. I put it "reported at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ,"—for it would be incorrect to say that they
                    reported for duty at that time.78 The Republican members
                    reported at the State House, but their Democratic co-workers stayed away from
                    the legislative halls for some time. The reason for their staying away from the
                    State House seems to have been that they wanted to get some assurance from the
                    Republican members that the Fifteenth Amendment would not be taken up until all
                    necessary legislation had been passed. The Republican State paper79 claims that thirteen Representatives and five Senators signed a
                    pledge giving this assurance, but that this pledge was rejected by the
                    Democratic caucus on the ground that 
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, March 24, 1869, p. 1, eol. 1.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 24, 1869, p. 4, col. 2.
                  
                     75 Four' men of color, three in 
                                Franklin
                             and one in 
                                Fountain county
                            , received votes at this special election.
                  
                     76
                            House Journal, Regular Session, 1869, p. 893.
                  
                     77
                            Senate Journal, Special Session, 1869, p. 3; House Journal, Special Session, 1869,. pp. 33 and 34.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 12, 1869, p. 4, cols. 2 and 3.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., April 13, 1869, p. 4, cols. 3 and 4.
               
                     the Republicans refused to have the
                    agreement printed. Because of this rejection, according to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, the Republican members withdrew their pledge, and the
                    Democrats took their seats (April 12) without any assurance. That the Democrats
                    stayed away from the State House for the sole purpose of getting some sort of
                    assurance from the Republicans seems evident; and it is probable they were given
                    this, for on the day the General Assembly was organized (April 12) the House set
                    the Fifteenth Amendment as the special order of the day for Tuesday, May 11. The
                    Senate agreed to this on the following day.80
            
            The absence of the Democrats from the State House until some assurance should be
                    given them that the suffrage amendment would not be taken up at an early date
                    cannot have been a surprise to the Republicans. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of March 8, 1869,81 claims to have
                    been informed "that the Democrats who may be elected at the special
                    election will not present their credentials at the opening of the next session
                    unless the Republicans abandon the constitutional amendment." This can
                    hardly be called a guess. Since that is what practically did happen, the
                    statement must be founded in part, at least, on a knowledge of the Democratic
                    plan of procedure. It was understood that the Democrats could, at any time,
                    defeat action on the amendment by resigning as they had done before.82 This plan was favored by many Democrats, but few may have
                    been as outspoken as a certain 
                        Clay county
                     paper is reported to have been. This paper is reported as having
                    said, in referring to the resignations of March 4, 1869:83
                    "Well done, thou good and faithful servant; repeat the dose if this
                    does not work the reformation." The course that later was adopted by
                    the Democrats, and how the Republicans met it, will be considered in due time.
            At the time set by the Governor for the special session, 2 p.m., April 8, a
                    majority of the Republicans of both Houses—fifty-nine
                        Representatives84 and twenty-seven Senators85—were present, but for reasons stated above,
                    the Democrats did not appear. It was not until April 12 that a sufficient number
                    of Democrats presented their 
                  
                     80
                            Senate Journal, Special Session, 1869, p. 19; House Journal, Special Session, 1869, p. 15; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 13, 1869, p. 2, col. 6.
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., p. 4, col. 3.
                  
                     82 The political complexion of both sessions was
                            identical—House, 56 Republicans, 44 Democrats; Senate, 30
                            Republicans, 20 Democrats. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal of April 12, p. 4, cols. 2 and 3, admits that
                            they can defeat it in this way.
                  
                            83
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     84
                            House Journal, Special Session, 1869, p. 4.
                  
                     85
                            Senate Journal, Special Session, 1869, p. 4.
               
                     credentials to make a quorum. On this day
                    twelve Democratic Senators86 and thirty-five Democratic
                        Representatives87 took their seats as duly qualified
                    members of the General Assembly.
            During the time that the Republican legislators were waiting for a quorum (April
                    8-12) a new interpretation of what constitutes a quorum was given to the public.
                    On April 10, Isaac Kinley, Senator from 
                        Wayne county
                    , said: "The Constitution provides that a majority of the
                    members elected can enact a law or pass a joint resolution. If these gentlemen
                    who stand outside of the bar are not members, then they are not
                    ‘members elected, ’ and the thirty or so members that are
                    here are the Senate and can transact any business we choose."88
            
            Two days later (April 12), Mr. Wolcott, Senator for Benton, White,
                            
                  Pulaski, Jasper
               , and 
                        Newton counties
                    , when speaking on the question of a quorum, elaborated this same
                        theory.89 He claimed that even though the Senate had
                    believed the quorum to have been broken by the resignation of seventeen Senators
                    on March 4, they had always been a "competent legislative
                    body." He cited that part of the Indiana Constitution that says
                    "two-thirds of each House shall constitute a quorum." This, he
                    argued, does not mean that there cannot be a quorum when there are absences and
                    vacancies. According to his views the Constitution set the maximum, but not the
                    minimum, number that constitutes a quorum. He admitted that his construction of
                    a quorum was not the customary one, but urged that it was not the first time in
                    the century that "new and correct views of statutes and constitutions
                    have obtained."
            Mr. Wolcott also discussed that part of the State Constitution that says
                    "a majority of all members elected to said House shall be necessary to
                    pass every bill or joint resolution." He considered qualification as
                    belonging to and being a part of election. "Then the Democratic members
                    could not be considered elected, and need not be considered in determining what
                    constitutes a majority." Shortly before the Democratic Senators took
                    their oath of office, Mr. Wolcott offered this resolution: "That
                    inasmuch as there is a quorum of all the members that are qualified under the
                    Constitution as Senators present, the President be and is hereby directed to
                    proceed with the business of the Senate." The Lieutenant Governor ruled
                    this 
                  
                     86
                            Ibid,, pp. 17 and 18.
                  
                     87
                            House Journal, Special Session, 1869, pp. 10-12.
                  
                     88
                            Brevier Beporcs, XI, p. 31; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 12, 1869, p. 2, col. 5.
                  
                     89
                            Ibid., XI, pp. 35 and 36.
               
                     resolution out of order.90 We shall see later on, when the question of a quorum again comes up,
                    what weight is placed on the views expressed by these two gentlemen.
            On the day that the General Assembly organized (April 12), the House of
                    Representatives agreed to postpone the consideration of the Fifteenth Amendment
                    until May 11. Later it was postponed until 2:30 p.m., May 14. The Senate voted
                    for the latter postponement on May 8;91 the House on May
                        10.92 It seemed at that time that all necessary
                    legislation would not be passed by May 11, and that a postponement of three more
                    days was considered expedient. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal93
                claimed this meant that the
                    amendment would not be considered at all; that on the evening of May 13 the
                    Democrats would leave and thus defeat all action on it. It added that even if
                    the Democrats should withdraw, they could not keep the amendment from going into
                    effect, since enough other States would ratify it to make the necessary
                    three-fourths.
            The Journal's claim that the Democrats would not be
                    present on May 14 was good prophecy; yet prophecy of such a nature that others
                    familiar with the political affairs of Indiana could have done as well. The
                    Democrats had resigned on March 4 to defeat the amendment, and there was no
                    reason to believe that their political views had been worked on by
                    sleight-of-hand performers. Besides, the Democrats who took time to explain
                    their votes on the final postponement, said they were unwilling to act on the
                    amendment before the people had expressed themselves on that question.94
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, in commenting on the statement of the Journal that the ratification of three-fourths of the States was
                    inevitable. even if Indiana should fail to act on the amendment, said:
                    "If such is the case, why then should the Republicans force a vote in
                    Indiana where a great majority of the people is opposed to it?"95
            
            That the Democrats were determined to resign a second time to defeat action on
                    the suffrage amendment seems to have been common knowledge, as the time for
                    considering the measure drew near. The Democratic State organ announced on the
                    morning of May 1396 that the legislature would probably
                    terminate on that day. In its opinion all necessary legislation had been
                    completed. John R. Coffroth, 
                  
                     90
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 37.
                  
                     91
                            Senate Journal, Special Session, 1869, p. 384.
                  
                     92
                            House Journal, Special Session, 1869, pp. 508-510.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 11, 1869, p. 4, col. 4.
                  
                     94
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 202.
                  
                     95
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, May 12, 1869, p. 2, col. 1.
                  
                     96
                            Ibid., p. 1, col. 2.
               
                     one of the leaders of the House, had said
                    that he would not remain and help make a quorum to pass that infamous amendment.
            The Republicans desired to force a vote on the Fifteenth Amendment. On the
                    morning of May 13, A. Y. Hooper in the Senate moved to suspend the order of
                    business so the amendment might be taken up. The motion was defeated by a vote
                    of 19 to 25.97 This action convinced the Democrats that
                    their political opponents were determined to bring up the question on that day,
                    even though the following day had been set for its consideration.
            At noon of the same day (May 13), both the Democrats and Republicans of the
                    General Assembly held caucuses. The Democrats decided that the eleven old
                    Senators, those whose terms expired with the session, and the Democratic
                    Representatives, were to resign their seats. The reason given for this
                    arrangement was that it would break the quorum in the House but not in the
                    Senate. Thus the Senate might act on unfinished legislation that had passed the
                        House.98
            
            The Republicans held a caucus at the same time that the Democrats were perfecting
                    their plans. We have but little definite knowledge as to the course decided on
                    in this caucus. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal does not discuss it, and the Democratic papers seem to
                    have only second or third hand information. The Sentinel" states it was understood that Senator Morton was
                    present at this caucus and stiffened the backs of some of the wavering
                    Republicans. Since Senator Morton was a man of action and a party man, it is
                    very probable that his participation in the caucus had something to do with the
                    action of the Republican members for that and the following day.
            In accordance with the decision of the Democratic caucus, ten Senators100 sent their resignations to the Governor between 2:00 and
                    3:00 p.m. of May 13. Just why only ten resigned at this time, and sixteen are
                    reported as having resigned on May 13, is not clear. Besides the Senators named
                    below, Senators Ochnig Bird, Robert Huey, James M. Hanna, Charles B. Lasselle,
                    and William H. Montgomery resigned on that day.101
            
            
               
                  97
                        Senate Journal, Special Session, 1869, pp. 472 and 473;
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 221.
               
                  98
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 14, 1869, p. 1, col. 2.
               
                        99
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  100 Senators Carson, Giftord, Howk, Huffman,
                        Humphreys, Lee, Smith, Sherrod, Taggart, Turner. Eleven had been agreed
                        upon, but only ten names appear. (
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 14, 1869, p. 1, col. 2. Senate
                            Journal, Special Session, 1869, pp. 480 and 481.)
               
                  101 All the source material at my disposal says that
                        sixteen Senators resigned
            
            
            The Democratic Representatives followed the example of the sixteen Senators, and
                    resigned to break the quorum. Forty-one representatives resigned on May 13.102
            
            When the Senate met in the afternoon of May 13, both the Democrats and
                    Republicans had decided on a definite course. The former, by resignation and
                    absence, would break the quorum; the latter would take up the Fifteenth
                    Amendment. Had the Democrats, who said they had resigned, stayed away from the
                    Senate chamber, the course of procedure would have been different; but even
                    then, we may safely say, the amendment would have come up for consideration.
            The first roll-call of the afternoon of May 13 showed only twenty-six Senators
                        present.103 The doorkeeper was ordered to bring in the
                    absentees, and later the doors were locked. Later in the afternoon the President
                        pro tempore, John Green, announced that thirty-four
                    Senators were present. At about this time the rumor became general that the
                    Democratic Senators and Representatives had resigned. John R. Cravens claimed he
                    had seen the resignations of eleven Senators.104
            
            Another roll-call took place in the Senate at 2:42 p.m. When W. W.
                    Carson's name was called, he said that he was no longer a Senator. J.
                    A. Stein suggested that Mr. Carson be marked present, since there was no
                    certificate showing that he was not a Senator. Daniel Morgan also said he did
                    not know whether or not he was still a Senator. The Democrats protested without
                    avail; the roll-call proceeded and showed thirty-five present.103
            
            
                on May 13; those authorities that give the names report only fifteen. (Senate Journal, p. 481; Brevier
                        Reports, XI, p. 236; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 15, 1869.) Senators Bradley, Henderson,
                        Johnson, and Morgan did not resign. (
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 15, 1869. Their names also appear in the Senate Journal after May 13.) That leaves one Democratic
                        Senator unaccounted for, namely, Mr. Denbo. Since Mr. Denbo was present in
                        the Senate on May 13 (Senate Journal, p. 476), but his
                        name does not appear in that volume after that date, it seems that he is the
                        sixteenth Senator who resigned on May 13. This opinion is strengthened by an
                        item in the 
                            New Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger of May 14, which says that Hon. George Denbo,
                        Senator from 
                            Washington
                         and 
                            Harrison counties
                        , was in the city on that day.
               
                  102
                        House Journal, Special Session, 1869, pp. 559, 560; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, May 15, 1869, p. 4, col. 2; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 15, 1869. The House
                        Journal says forty-two resigned, but gives only forty-one names.
                        Messrs. Coffroth and Davis were the only Democrats left in the House after
                        May 13. That leaves Mr. McFaddin unaccounted for. His name appears in the
                        call of the House for the last time on May 7. The 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos of May 12 says: "Mayor McFaddin
                        has resigned his office of Representative *
                            * * and has entered upon his duties of
                        mayoralty of this city." Plainly only forty-one resigned on May 13.
               
                  103
                        Brevier Reports, XI, p. 222.
               
                        104
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  105 Ibid.
            
            
            John R. Cravens repeated that he had seen the resignations of eleven
                    Senators—those whose terms expired with the session. Not counting
                    this number, plus the two absentees—James Hughes and Sims A.
                    Colley—there were still left thirty-seven Senators, a quorum. Mr.
                    Cravens said: "We are still a working body, and if there is anything
                    desired to be done, now I suppose is as good a time to do it as
                        any."106
            
            William F. Sherrod said he had been informed that his resignation had been handed
                    in—but further remarks were drowned by cries of:
                    "Order"; "If you are not a Senator you have no right
                    to speak"; and similar remarks.107
            
            The next question that came up concerned the closing of the doors. Mr. Wolcott
                    offered the resolution that they remain closed. Mr. Johnson of 
                        Montgomery
                     objected to this on the ground that the Senate could not close the
                    doors unless secrecy were necessary. Mr. Wolcott claimed that "the
                    emergency of affairs at this time demanded secrecy."108 S. F. Johnson said that if secrecy were necessary the lobby would have
                    to be cleared. Harvey D. Scott wanted to know what it was that demanded secrecy.
                    Mr. Wolcott evaded this question by. saying, "Let every Senator
                    determine this for himself." Firman Church said he was afraid his wife
                    would hear about it. Finally Mr. Wolcott withdrew the resolution asking that the
                    doors remain closed.109
            
            Since the Lieutenant Governor decided that the roll-call showed a quorum110 present, the Senate was ready to proceed with the order
                    of business. A. Y. Hooper moved the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment. The
                    vote then taken stood: yeas, 27; nays, 1; present but not voting, 10.111 The Senate considered it necessary to pass 
                  
                     106
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 223.
                  
                            107
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            108
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     109
                            Ibid. Even though that resolution was withdrawn, we
                            have no mention of the opening of the doors until after the vote was
                            taken. 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger (Dem.) of May 14, 1869, claims the doors
                            were locked so that the Democrats could not get out. It also claims that
                            they also tried to lock the doors of the House, but could not find the
                            keys which, rumor said, were in the pocket of a Representative not a
                            thousand miles from 
                                New Albany
                            .
                  
                     110 This included the Democrats present who
                            claimed they were no longer Senators because of their resignations.
                            Actual count shows 37 names (Senate Journal, Special
                            Session, p. 474).
                  
                     111
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 224; Senate
                                Journal, Special Session, 1869, p. 475. Teas: Messrs. Andrews,
                            Armstrong, Bradley, Bellamy, Case, Caven, Church, Cravens, Bliott,
                            Fisher, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Johnson of 
                                Spencer
                            , Kinley, Rice, Reynolds, Robinson of 
                                Madison
                            , Robinson of 
                                Decatur
                            , Scott, Stein, Wolcott, Wood—27. Nays: Mr.
                            Jaquess. Present and not voting: Messrs. Carson, Denbo, Giffort,
                            Henderson, Johnson of 
                                Montgomery
                            , Lasselle, Jjee, Morgan, Sherrod,
                        Smith—10.
               
                     a resolution that it be entered on the
                    journal that these ten Senators were present but did not vote.
            As the roll was being called on the suffrage amendment, the Democrats present
                    claimed they were no longer members, since they had resigned. This availed them
                    nothing, for some Republican, when the name of one of the Democrats was called,
                    answered "Present but not voting." Messrs. Sherrod and Gifford
                    objected to this, because they had announced their resignations. Mr. Kinley said
                    that both admitted being members by speaking on the floor of the Senate. Mr.
                    Cravens asserted that they would have to be considered members, since the Senate
                    had no official notice of their resignation.112
            
            There is serious doubt about the presence of all ten of the persons reported as
                    "present but not voting." The protest offered by the four
                    remaining Democratic Senators—Messrs. James Bradley, E. Henderson,
                    Daniel Morgan, and S. F. Johnson—asserts that "Wilson Smith
                    and G. M. Denbo were not then present in said Senate chamber or in the lobbies
                        thereof."113 This same protest claims Messrs.
                    Carson, Gifford, Lee, Sherrod, and Smith were no longer members of the Senate,
                    since they had resigned their offices and had informed the President of the
                    Senate of their action.
            Since the record of the Senate showed that a majority of that body with a quorum
                    present had voted to ratify the Fifteenth Amendment, the House of
                    Representatives also considered it necessary to take action on it. No quorum was
                    present in the House on the forenoon of May 13.114 On the
                    afternoon of the same day only a few Democrats were present. This was said to
                    have been due to the resignation of many of them. When the House took a vote on
                    the question of dispensing with the further proceedings of the call, Milton A.
                    Osborn objected to the vote of John C. Lawler on the ground that the latter was
                    no longer a member.116 The Speaker answered the objection in
                    these words: "The chair holds that gentlemen must be treated as members
                    here, till we are officially notified otherwise." John R. Coffroth and
                    Henry G. Davis took exception to this, but the roll-call proceeded. The result
                    of the vote as announced by the Speaker was: Yeas, 16; nays, 55; total, 71. Then
                    Moses F. Dunn moved the following resolution: "Resolved, that while we
                    condemn and censure an act revolutionary in its character 
                  
                     112 Brevier Reports, XI, pp. 224-225,
                  
                     113
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 247. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 15, 1869, p. 2, cols. 1 and 2. If these
                            two were not present, then the number present is reduced to
                            36—still a quorum.
                  
                     114
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 226.
                  
                            115
                            Ibid
                        
               
                     we congratulate the people of this State on
                    their happy deliverance from the curse of a factious minority."116
            
            Although the vote on the motion to dispense with the further proceedings of the
                    call showed a majority present, doubts were later expressed as to a quorum. The
                    Speaker ordered another roll-call. The result this time showed fifty-five
                        present.117 The Speaker announced there was no quorum
                    voting. He added: "It is not competent for the House to do any
                    legislative business after it has been ascertained there is no quorum
                        present."118 Anthony E. Gordon (Republican
                    member from 
                        Boone county
                    ) offered a resolution to refer the Fifteenth Amendment to the
                    people, since it could not pass the present session with a quorum present.
                    Objection was raised against this resolution, and the House adjourned.119
            
            The House met again on the following morning (May 14), considered a few matters
                    of little importance, then took a recess till 2 p.m. The motion on the call of
                    the House had shown only fifty members voting.120
            
            When the House met at 2 p.m. on May 14, fifty-six members were present.121 (None of the Democrats who had resigned is included in
                    this number.) Milton A. Osborn moved to take up the Fifteenth Amendment. John R.
                    Coffroth said that there being no quorum present, the House could neither
                    legislate nor act on the amendment. The Speaker answered him by saying that the
                    chair had repeatedly ruled that for purposes of legislation sixty-seven
                    constitutes a quorum, but opinions differed as to what constitutes a quorum to
                    take up the suffrage amendment. He added that on this question there was no
                    precedent or law; but if it was to be settled at all, it would have to be
                    settled under conditions then existing, and let the courts have the final
                        word.122 So the Speaker decided that the motion to take
                    up the Fifteenth Amendment was in order. This amendment, known as Joint
                    Resolution No. 18, was then passed. The vote stood: Yeas, 54; nays, none; not
                    voting, 3; 123 total, 57.
            
               
                  116
                        Brevier Reports, XI, p. 227.
               
                        117
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  118
                        Ibid., p. 228.
               
                        119
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                        120
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  121
                        Ibid., p. 239.
               
                        122
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  123
                        Ibid., p. 240. Yeas: Messrs. Baker, Barnett, Beatty,
                        Beeler, Bowen, Breckenridge, Chapman, Chittenden, Davis of 
                            Elkhart
                        , Davidson, Dunn, Fairehild, Field of Lake, Field of 
                            Lagrange
                        , Furnas, Gilham, Gordon, Green, Hall, 
                            Hamilton
                        , Higbee, Higgins, Hutson, Johnson of Park, Johnson of Marshall,
                        Jump, Kercheval, Lamborn, Mason, Millikan, Miller, 
                            Monroe
                        , Osborn, Overmeyer, Pierce
            
            
            It is interesting to note the reasons some of the fifty-four gave for voting for
                    the adoption of the amendment; and also the reasons the three gave for refusing
                    to vote.
            Mr. Coffroth refused to vote because he believed action on the amendment without
                    a quorum present was illegal. He claimed also that his oath to support the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     and that of the State would not permit him to be a party to an act
                    passed with less than sixty-seven present.124 Henry G.
                    Davis, of Floyd, refused to vote for practically the same reason-r-because, in
                    his opinion, the House had no right to do so.125
            
            As James V. Mitchell has given us a strong argument against, the ratification of
                    the Fifteenth Amendment at that time, I shall give his reasons for refusing to
                    vote more in detail.126 Mr. Mitchell said there had been no
                    discussion whatever of the question in the House, and for that reason alone did
                    he claim the right to explain his position at that time. He said that recently
                    the sovereign power, the people, irrespective of party, had said that the right
                    to control the suffrage belonged to each State "for herself."
                    According to that, as he believed, if all the other States should vote to confer
                    the right of suffrage on the negro, Indiana would still be free to refuse to
                    grant it. He admitted, that "if she did refuse, she might be deprived
                    of her representation as declared in the Fourteenth Amndment. For when the
                    Constitution itself declares, that if any State shall refuse to any portion of
                    her citizens the right to vote, she shall not be allowed representation in
                    Congress for that number, it says to every State in this union, you may or you
                    may not grant the franchise just as you like."127
                    Mr. Mitchell answered the argument that it was proposed to amend the
                    Constitution in regard to suffrage by saying that the Constitution "has
                    declared that right in favor of the people." He claimed that the people
                    were then heaping curses upon the heads of our Senators and Representatives who,
                    pledged to the principle of a State regulating its own suffrage,
                    "violated their obligations to their sovereigns." Furthermore,
                    he had sworn to support the Constitution of this State, and it declares that no
                    business can be done without a quorum. He would not acknowledge the right of the
                        
                   of Porter, Pierce of Vigo, Ratliff, Rudell, Sabin, Skidmore, Smith,
                            Stanton, Stephenson, Stewart of 
                                Ohio
                            , Stewart of Rush, Taber, Underwood, Vardeman, Vater,
                            Wiidman, Williams of 
                                Hamilton
                            , Williams of Union, Wilson, Buskirk
                            (Speaker)—54. Not voting: Messrs. Coffroth, Davis of Floyd,
                            Mitchell—3.
                  
                     124
                            Brevier Reports, XI, p. 240.
                  
                            125
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     126
                            Ibid., p. 241.
                  
                            127
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     House to act on the question by voting
                    either for or against it; neither would he make perjury the last act of his
                    connection with the Fortieth General Assembly of Indiana.128
            
            Of those voting for the ratification of the amendment, Gilbert A. Pierce, of
                    Porter, gave the best explanation of his vote, and I shall give it first. He
                    took exception to Mr. Mitchell's reference to perjury, designating it
                    as "uncalled for." In his opinion the House had a legal right
                    to pass a resolution or laws, as long as a majority was present. He said if the
                    minority, by their resignations, were allowed to break up a quorum, it would set
                    a bad precedent; and in the future it might be impossible to pass important
                    legislation. To quote Mr. Pierce:129 "If that
                    doctrine is entertained, I submit that our institutions are a mockery, our
                    republicanism is a farce, our State government is nothing but a huge skeleton
                    draped in the fig-leaves of democracy."
            Mr. Pierce discussed also the question of a quorum.130 He
                    argued if the "House" meant a full membership (100) then
                    practically all acts of legislation are illegal. If less than a hundred
                    contsitutes a "House," then the question arises, How many
                    less? He cited instances in the national House where less than half the members
                    had been considered a quorum. He agreed with Vallandigham who said in Congress
                    that they had no knowledge of any members unless they appeared there. He
                    concluded with these words: "The question of negro suffrage is about to
                    be settled for all times. … It has been the threatening cloud which
                    has hung over this nation for years. Let us dispel the clouds by voting for this
                    just provision, and thereby set in the political heavens the rainbow of peace to
                    us and promise to them."131
            
            S. H. Stewart, of 
                        Rush county
                    , voted to pass the resolution, because he claimed they had to meet revolution with revolution, and that it was
                    constitutional to do right. He did not believe there was any precedent for the
                    case; it was even so unnatural that there was no law covering it.132
            
            John I. Underwood claimed that there was a quorum present, and that he was bound
                    by oath to vote "aye." According to his interpretation of
                    "quorum," forty members at that time could legislate or do any
                    other business that might come up.133
            
            
               
                        128
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  129
                        Ibid., p. 242.
               
                        130
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  131
                        Ibid., p. 243.
               
                  132
                        Ibid, pp. 243-244.
               
                  133
                        Ibid., p. 244.
            
            
            Moses G. Dunn voted for the resolution because he believed he had a legal and
                    constitutional right to do so. Even had he thought otherwise, he would have felt
                    justified to vote that way, in accordance with the old maxim, "In
                    rebellion laws are silent."134
            
            Anthony E. Gordon personally believed that the vote was illegal; but since
                    learned lawyers had given their opinion to the effect that it was legal, he was
                    willing to give the benefit of the doubt to humanity and vote
                        "aye."135
            
            From the foregoing explanation of votes we see that those who refused to vote
                    claimed that the House could not take action at that time because, in their
                    opinion, there was no quorum present. Those who favored the passage of the
                    amendment at that time were not unanimous in their opinion why it should pass.
                    Some were satisfied that a quorum, in the meaning of the Constitution, was
                    present; while others did not accept that interpretation, but claimed it was
                    necessary to pass the amendment to meet revolution with revolution, feeling
                    satisfied that the end justified the means.
            IV. WAS
                    THE RATIFICATION
                    OF
                    THE FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT
                    BY
                    THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
                    OF INDIANA CONSTITUTIONAL?
            The question of the constitutionality of the ratification of the Fifteenth
                    Amendment by the General Assembly of Indiana constitutes the last section of
                    this paper. Much has been said- and written on this question. I shall review the
                    arguments both pro and con, and try to reach a conclusion.
            The best and fullest argument in favor of the constitutionality of the question
                    up for consideration has been offered by Senator Morton, and I shall therefore
                    review his exposition carefully.136
            
            Mr. Morton points out the fact that the resignation of members of the General
                    Assembly to defeat the will of the majority occurred for the first time in 1869.
                    Before that time the quorum had been broken by absence.137
                    In the latter case, the absentees might be sent for and the quorum thus
                    restored; not so in the case of resignations.
            
               
                  134
                        Brevier Reports, XI, p. 241.
               
                        135
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  136
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, May 25, 1869, pp. 4 and 5.
               
                  137 To prevent the breaking of a quorum by absence, a
                        bill was passed by the General Assembly of 1867, making such action
                        punishable by a fine of $1,000. The act reads: "Willful
                        or intentional absence or refusal to vote on the part of any member, or to
                        answer to their name on vote or roll-call with intent to delay or defeat
                        legislation, shall be deemed guilty of misdemeanor and be fined?
                        1,000." Approved February 7, 1867 (Laws of
                        Indiana, 1867, p. 131).
            
            
            Article IV, Section II, of our State Constitution says, "Two-thirds of
                    each House shall constitute a quorum to do business." Article I,
                    Section 5, of the 
                        United States
                     Constitution says, "Each House shall be the judge of
                    elections, returns and qualifications of its members, and a majority of each
                    shall constitute a quorum to do business."
            The question now comes up: What constitutes a House? According to Mr. Morton,
                    clearly not a hundred, not fifty, respectively.138 If action
                    required that number, the General Assembly could seldom act; since there is
                    hardly a day without some absences due to death, failure to elect, or failure to
                    qualify. Vacancies caused by death or resignation are never filled without
                    delay, so some time must elapse before all the members can be present. Mr.
                    Morton said that if ten counties should fail to elect representatives, ninety
                    members constitute the House, and two-thirds of these (sixty) is a quorum. If
                    ten members were to die or resign, the result would remain the same. He
                    maintained that the "House" meant the whole number of actual
                        members.139 He says that to pass a bill or joint
                    resolution it takes a majority of all the members elected to each House.140 This means fifty-one and twenty-six respectively.
                    According to this, less than a majority can not transact any business, but the
                    framers of the State Constitution certainly did not mean to give the minority
                    the means of preventing legislation. There was no question in Mr.
                    Morton's mind in regard to the legality of the ratification of the
                    Fifteenth Amendment, since twenty-seven Senators and fifty-four141 Representatives voted in favor of such ratification. He said the
                    Fifteenth Amendment passed both as to the letter and the spirit of the
                    Constitution; the only possible complaint that could be made was that the
                    minority was not able to defeat the will of the majority.
            The practice in Congress, according to Mr. Morton's exposition, was
                    similar to the course adopted by the General Assembly of Indiana. In the Senate
                    the majority of members who are left are recognized 
                  
                     138
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 25, 1869.
                  
                     139 Had the Senate resolution read in Congress by
                            Mr. Morton on March 15, 1869, been passed, there could be no doubt
                            concerning the soundness of this argument. This resolution provided that
                            a "majority of any State legislature shall be sufficient to
                            ratify any amendment to the Constitution of the 
                                United States
                             proposed by Congress; and the resignation or temporary
                            refusal to act of the minority shall not affect the validity of such
                            ratification by the majority." (Globe, 1st
                            Session, 41st Congress, p. 63; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 16, 1869, p. 1, col. 1; ibid., March 17, p. 4, col. 1.)
                  
                     140 Indiana Constitution, Article IV, Sec. 25.
                  
                     141 Mr. Morton said 55. Brevier
                                Reports, XI, p. 240, says 54.
               
                     as a quorum. The Senate has a rule to that
                    effect; the House has not, but recognizes the same principle. This construction
                    was the only one that could keep the minority from bringing on a state of
                    anarchy; and it was time to put an end to such action both in State and nation.
            In this exposition, Senator Morton argues that the ratification of an amendment
                    to the national Constitution differs from an act of legislation, because the
                    duty to consider an amendment is imposed on the State by the nation, and a State
                    Constitution cannot prohibit the consideration thereof. For that reason, if for
                    no other, he believes that a majority of the members of a State legislature
                    should be considered sufficient to pass it. Where the duty is imposed by
                    Congress, the performance of it as imposed by the national government should be
                    sufficient in the State.
            An act of Congress of July 26, 1866, makes the following provisions concerning
                    the election of 
                        United States
                     Senators: 142 On the second Tuesday after the
                    State legislature meets, each House shall vote for Senator; at 12:00 m. the next
                    day both Houses shall meet to elect a Senator; a majority of all the votes of
                    the joint assembly elects, provided that a majority of all the members elected
                    to both houses are present and voting.143 In Indiana
                    seventy-six, probably all Representatives, might proceed to elect, and
                    thirty-nine votes would be sufficient for election. Mr. Morton shows here that
                    Congress has the power to regulate the election of 
                        United States
                     Senators, and we may infer that it also has the power to say how
                    constitutional amendments shall be ratified.
            The Democratic view in regard to the constitutionality of the passing of the
                    Fifteenth Amendment has been stated at various points in the previous chapter,
                    and needs only to be mentioned. The 
                  
                     142 Morton's exposition, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 25, 1869, p. 5.
                  
                     143 This Federal law covers the constitutional
                            question raised in Indiana in previous controversies. In 1855 the two
                            Houses of the General Assembly were of different politics and refused to
                            go Into a joint session to elect a 
                                United States
                             Senator (Turpie Sketches of My Own Times,
                            p. 176). The General Assembly of 1857 was Democratic on joint ballot,
                            but the Republicans had a majority in the Senate. The Senate was
                            unwilling to join the House in joint session for the purpose of electing 
                                United States
                             Senators, so on February 4, 1857, the Democratic Senators
                            joined the House of Representatives and Jesse D. Bright and Graham N.
                            Fitch, both Democrats, were elected Senators. Both received 83 votes, a
                            majority of all the votes of the General Assembly (Turpie, p. 176; House Journal, pp. 395-396.) The opposition claimed
                            (1858) that "legislature" meant the concurrent action
                            of both Houses, consequently Bright and Fitch had not been elected. The
                            Democrats contended that the majority had the legal right to take such
                            action. The Republican majority, the Democrats refusing to take part in
                            the proceedings, elected Lane and McCarty to the Senate. The 
                                United States
                             Senate seated Bright and Fitch (Turpie, pp.
                        177-179).
               
                     Democrats claimed that the amendment had
                    not passed, because no quorum was present at the time the vote was taken. A
                    statement given "To the People of Indiana of All Parties"144 reviews the question and claims the amendment was voted
                    on by less than a quorum. This appeal states that the vote in the House was
                        53145 ayes, no nays, and 3 not voting; a total of 56.
                    The same article claims the action of the Senate was not valid; for in order to
                    have the records show a quorum present the following Senators who had resigned
                    were counted: Messrs. Gifford, Carson, Smith, Sherrod, Lee; and Mr. Denbo, who
                    was absent, was counted present. Mr. Smith had resigned and was also absent. The
                    appeal adds that the "records were falsified to show a quorum by
                    persons under oath and pretending to be Christian men."146
            
            It seems that the Democratic State papers were unanimous in their opinion in
                    regard to the so-called ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment in Indiana. They
                    claim it was illegal. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel,
                    
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Journal, and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    
                    Democrat protested against the action of the General
                        Assembly.147 Not all the Republican papers of Indiana
                    were sure that the action of the legislature was legal. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal was one that doubted the legality of the action.148 The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times also considered the action illegal.149 The Daily Evening Mirror (Republican) of 
                        Indianapolis
                     prints the following:150 "The
                    following article from the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Evening Post, an able and independent Republican newspaper,
                    expresses our views exactly." These views are that there may be some
                    question as to the legality of the action of the Senate, but that the action of
                    the House certainly was illegal. The Mirror quotes the
                    following as its opinion also: "The Fifteenth Amendment, ratified by
                    the means chosen for the purpose in Indiana, would not be worth the parchment on
                    which it is engrossed." The 
                        Richmond
                     (Ind.) Radical says that the vote of Indiana may
                    or may not be counted for the amendment; still it is sure of adoption. It ends
                    its article with these words: "Glory Hallelujay!"151
            
            In conclusion, I shall review the situation with the hope of being able to
                    determine the legality of the action of the General Assembly 
                  
                     144
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 15, 1869, p. 2, cols. 1 and 2.
                  
                     145
                            Brevier Bepprts, XI, p. 240, says there were 54 ayes.
                  
                     146 This article was signed by J. M. Hanna, J. R.
                            Coffroth, and John S. Davis.
                  
                     147 Foulke, Life of Morton, II,
                            pp. 114-116.
                  
                     148
                            IUd., p. 117.
                  
                            149
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     150
                            Daily Evening Mirror, May 18, 1869, p. 1, col. 2.
                  
                     151
                            RacUcal, May 20, 1869, p. 2, col. 1.
               
                     of Indiana on the Fifteenth Amendment. The
                    first question that comes up is: Did Congress have the right to propose the
                    suffrage amendment in 1869? Both the Republican national platform of 1868 and
                    the Republican state platform of the same year had plainly stated that the
                    question of suffrage in the loyal States should be left to the States. We have a
                    right to believe that the voters who supported these platforms held the same
                    view. We may also take it for granted that the Democrats held the same view.
                    Morally then, I claim, Congress was bound to leave the question to the States.
                    Legally, Mr. Morton was right when he said that those planks expressed the
                    opinion of the party on the suffrage question as the Constitution then stood,
                    but that did not mean that at no subsequent time might they change it on that
                        subject.152 In answer to the first question, I will say
                    that morally Congress did not have the right to propose the Fifteenth Amendment
                    at that time; legally it could do so.
            The second question to be considered is: Has the minority of a legislature the
                    right to defeat the will of the majority? According to the underlying principle
                    of democracy it has not. I believe that the framers of our
                    constitutions, both national and State, did not intend to give to the minority
                    in the respective legislative bodies the right to defeat the will of the
                    majority by withdrawal or resignation. Yet, at several different times, this
                    very act has been resorted to in Indiana. The Republicans withdrew from the
                    General Assembly in 1865 to keep the Democrats from passing the Militia Bill.153 How the minority defeated the will of the majority in
                    the regular session of 1869, and either defeated or attempted to defeat it in
                    the special session of the same year, has been fully discussed and needs no
                    further comment. Again in 1871 a number of Representatives resigned as the only
                    means of defeating the Apportionment Bill. This time thirty-four Republicans
                    sent in their resignations to the Governor, 
                  
                     152
                            Globe, 3d Session, 40th Congress, p. 861 (February 4,
                            1869).
                  
                     153 This General Assembly was composed of 27
                            Democratic, 21 Republican, and 2 Independent Senators; 60 Democratic and
                            40 Republican Representatives (Daily State Sentinel
                            Feb. 9, 10, 11 and 12, gives this list). The Militia Bill proposed to
                            reserve to the people enrolled under it the right to choose company and
                            regimental officers, and to give to the General Assembly the appointment
                            of Major-Generals and Brigadier Generals (Daily State
                                Sentinel, Feb. 28, 1863). The purpose of this bill was to tie
                            the hands of Governor Morton. The Daily State Sentinel
                            of March 2, 1863, says: "They [the Republicans] have either
                            gone home or left for parts unknown. * *
                            * The Republican members of the House have
                            absquatulated." This same paper says: "Whenever the
                            minority shall aim to overturn legislation by acts of revolution, they
                            will place themselves in the same category with Mr. Jefferson Davis and
                            his confederates in crime against Constitution and laws." This
                            withdrawal of the Republican Representatives left the State without the
                            necessary appropriations.
               
                     on February 22.154
                    Republicans claimed that these members resigned to keep the Democrats from
                    redistricting the State in such a way that the Republicans could never again
                    have a majority in the General Assembly.155
            
            The third, last, and main question is: What constitutes a quorum in the General
                    Assembly of Indiana? The Speaker of the House ruled, shortly before the vote was
                    taken, that for legislative purposes he had always maintained that sixty-seven
                    constituted a quorum, but that for the consideration of the Fifteenth Amendment
                    a quorum was present.156 Neither law nor precedent was
                    produced to back up this statement.
            The Senate did not care to go on record as passing the Fifteenth Amendment
                    without the claim of a quorum. There may be some question as to whether a quorum
                    was present when that measure was voted on, but the record left by that body
                    shows a quorum present.157 Possibly this record was padded
                    to show the requisite number, and that body did not care to proceed with less
                    than thirty-four names on the record. If this number was necessary to proceed
                    with the business of the Senate, it is hard to see how the House could take
                    legal action with less than sixty-seven members present.
            The ruling of the Speaker that a bare majority might pass a constitutional
                    amendment, while for legislative action two-thirds of all the members (67) was
                    necessary, is too weak to stand. If this view was correct, why should Mr. Morton
                    have made the attempt to have a Federal statute passed to that effect? If such
                    action was legal, why should it require a law to make it so?
            When the seventeen Senators and thirty-seven Representatives resigned on March 4,
                    1869, the Governor and the Republicans as well as the Democrats agreed that the
                    quorum was broken. When the Republicans withdrew from the General Assembly in
                    1863, Republicans and Democrats agreed that the General Assembly could take no
                    action. When in 1871 thirty-four Republican Representatives resigned, the wheels
                    of the legislative machinery stopped. Why then should the House of fifty-seven
                    members proceed to pass 
                  
                     154
                            Senate Journal, 1871, p. 745; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 24, 1871, p. 4, col. 1. The resignation
                            of these thirty-four members left the House without a quorum. If there
                            were ‘no vacancies, the House was reduced to
                            sixty-six—one less than a quorum.
                  
                     155
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 24, 1871, p. 4, col. 1.
                  
                     156 The record shows 57 present when the vote was
                            taken.
                  
                     157 The term "quorum" as here
                            used means two-thirds of the full number of Senators, or 34.
               
                     the Fifteenth Amendment?158 One answer is, that this was the only way that it could be passed.
            Viewing the question in the light of the spirit of the law, I should say that the
                    Fifteenth Amendment was legally passed by the General Assembly of Indiana. If we
                    apply the letter of the law to our question, a thing which has been done too
                    much in the past and is still defeating the good intentions of many a measure, I
                    should say that the Fifteenth Amendment was never ratified by the General
                    Assembly of Indiana.
            The best argument, in my opinion, that the Republicans could find for taking a
                    vote on the amendment was that it was meeting revolution with revolution. In the
                    letter of the law the Democrats certainly had the right to resign; but, I
                    believe, the framers of our Constitution did not intend to put into
                    anybody's hands such a dangerous weapon. Morally, then, they were bound
                    to retain their seats, and make the ratification of the amendment possible;
                    legally, they were under no obligation to take part in the work. For the same
                    reason the Republican members had no moral right to withdraw in 1863 or to
                    resign in 1871; but there was no law to keep them from doing so. All were by
                    duty bound to remain, and let the majority reap the honor or share the blame
                    that might come from their own wise or foolish action. True democracy is founded
                    on this principle.
            
               
                  158 Goodrich and Tuttle (History of
                            Indiana, p. 250), in commenting on the statement of the chair that
                        there was a quorum of de facto members present, claim that
                        this decision was afterward substantially sustained but the Supreme Court
                        case and authority are not cited, so -the reader is permitted to take this
                        statement at his own estimate.
            
         
         
         
            SKETCHES OF EARLY INDIANA SENATORS—(III) WILLIAM HENDRICKS,
                    1825-1837
            NINA KATHLEEN REID,
                    A.M. Attica
            WILLIAM HENDRICKS was born at 
                  Ligonier, Westmoreland county,
                            Pennsylvania
               ,
                    November 12, 1782. He received his education in the common schools at
                    Cannonsburg, having as classmate Dr. Andrew Wylie, who later became president of
                    Indiana University.
            When he reached manhood, Hendricks left 
                        Pennsylvania
                     for 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Ohio
               , where he
                    stayed a year or two, studying law. After being admitted to the bar, he came, in
                    1813, to 
                  Madison, Jefferson county
               , which remained his
                    home until his death.1
            
            When Hendricks came to Indiana he was without friends, money, or patronage, but
                    he immediately got into politics. He had brought with him a printing press and
                    soon commenced to publish a weekly paper, the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Western Eagle. Through this paper he became well known and
                    soon made his way into politics.
            Indiana was at that time still a territory, and to the Territorial General
                    Assembly which met at Corydon November 1, 1813, Hendricks was elected to
                    represent 
                        Jefferson county
                     in place of William McFarland. who had resigned. He was also
                    territorial printer for this, the second session of the Fourth General Assembly,
                    printing the Acts of the Assembly at the office of the Western
                        Eagle at 
                        Lexington
                    .2 He represented his county in the special
                    session of June 1, 1814, and again in the first session of the Fifth Assembly,
                    August 15, 1814, to September 10, 1814, when he was elected Speaker. At the
                    second session of the Fifth Assembly, he served as clerk of the House, an office
                    he had also held at the first session of the Fourth Assembly.
            When the Constitutional Convention met at Corydon, June 10, 1816, Hendricks
                    attended, although he was not a delegate. He was elected secretary of the
                    convention, and discharged his duties so well that when the convention adjourned
                    he had acquired a reputation for ability and political sagacity not surpassed by
                    any one in Indiana.3
            
            
               
                  1 Woollen, Sketches of Early
                        Indiana, p. 51.
               
                  2
                        Ibid., p. 53.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., p. 62.
            
            
            August 5 of the same year, at the last election held under the territorial
                    government, Hendricks was elected to Congress, defeating Allen T. Thorn. At this
                    time Indiana was entitled to only one Representative in Congress. December 2,
                    1816, he qualified and took his seat in the second session of the Fourteenth
                    Congress. He was placed on the Committee on Public Lands.
            Hendricks's first speech in the House was on the Compensation Law.
                    Colonel R. M. Johnson, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , had reported a bill to repeal the Compensation Law, which had been
                    passed at the previous session, giving a salary of $3,000 to the
                    President of the Senate and Speaker of the House and $1,500 to each
                    member of the Senate and House, in place of $6 a day, the previous
                    compensation. Hendricks, together with James Noble and Waller Taylor, the
                    Indiana Senators, had been instructed by the Indiana legislature to try to get
                    this law repealed. In his speech, Hendricks showed how the ideas of expenditure
                    of his constituents differed from those of the eastern cities. The people of the
                    West had little means of getting money, and $6 a day, the previous
                    compensation for members of Congress, seemed big enough to them. He did not
                    think lowering the compensation would exclude the best talent of the country.
                    This act was repealed March 19, 1819.4
            
            On February 12, 1817, when the Senate and House met to count the electoral votes,
                    the question arose as to whether the votes of Indiana should be counted.
                    Congressman Taylor of 
                        New York
                     objected because the enabling act admitting Indiana was not passed
                    until December 11, 1816, while the electors had been chosen before this time.
                    The Senate withdrew while the House considered the question.5 Hendricks made a plea for his State. He argued that the only question
                    for Congress to decide was whether the State had a constitution that was
                    republican. He said the same authority which gave him the right to vote in the
                    House gave Indiana also a right to vote for President and Vice-President. The
                    House did not come to any conclusion, so the votes were counted.6
            
            Hendricks was elected to Congress again August 4, 1817, over Thomas Posey who had
                    been Territorial Governor from 1812 to 1816. In a letter published in the Indiana Republican at 
                        Madison
                    , September 16, 1817, he answered the attacks of his enemies. Before
                    this he had paid no attention to the abuse of newspapers, but now 
                  
                     4
                            Annals 14th Congress, 2nd Session, p. 507.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., p. 944.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., p. 943.
               
                     he proceeded to answer questions which the
                        Indiana Herald had put to him. The Herald had charged him with having procured the appointment of printers of
                    the laws of the 
                        United States
                     for the editors of the Gazette at Corydon,
                    instead of for the Herald. To this Hendricks replied that it
                    was proper that the laws should be published at the seat of government by a
                    paper established there. Besides, neither he nor Senator James Noble had been
                    informed that the editors of the Herald wanted the
                    appointment, while the editors of the Gazette had made
                    application.
            Another serious charge was that he had tried to have the printing of the laws
                    taken away from Elihu Stout of the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun. This Hendricks declared was charged in order to make the
                    people of the West think he was trying to take away from them the means of
                    promulgating their laws. He said he had given his opinion of Stout as an editor,
                    saying that he was indolent and not punctual in publication, all of which was
                    undoubtedly true. However, he had refrained from mentioning what he might
                    have—the fact that Elihu Stout had permitted all kinds of slander and
                    abuse against the government to be published in his paper.
            Hendricks had been further charged by the Herald with procuring
                    for Armstrong Brandon, the editor of the Gazette, the
                    appointment of postmaster at Corydon, while disregarding Willis M'Bean,
                    who had been recommended by Harvey Heth, the former postmaster. Hendricks
                    proceeded to tell his side of the story. Early in the last session, Harvey Heth
                    had sent a letter to the Postmaster General, tendering his resignation. He named
                    Willis M'Bean as his successor, proposing to transfer his papers to him
                    as soon as M'Bean was authorized to receive them. His letter was handed
                    over to Hendricks.
            Hendricks, wondering that the people of Corydon had not recommended Willis
                    M'Bean or any one else, thought that they did not know of the
                    resignation. He decided to wait until he received letters from Corydon. On the
                    second mail he received letters telling of Harvey Heth's resignation
                    and of the application of Armstrong Brandon, who was well recommended. The
                    Postmaster General also received recommendations favoring Brandon. It was only
                    then that Hendricks acquiesced in this nomination.
            Hendricks had also been abused for his correspondence with the Acting Secretary
                    of War on the subject of the claims of the militia of Indiana for services in
                    the War of 1812. The recognition of these claims had been brought about by
                    Jennings while in Congress.  Hendricks
                    declared that in spite of the abuse of the Herald he would do
                    all he could at the next session to get the militia and rangers paid. He would
                    not rest until every cent had been paid them.
            Hendricks claimed that no fault could be found with any of his acts. All the
                    opposition he had met with was due to the fact that people were jealous because
                    a man, who had come to Indiana without money or friends, should so soon get into
                    Congress.
            He traced the opposition of the Herald back to the time when
                    its editors had been disappointed by not being appointed printers of the 
                        United States
                     laws. This was in January, 1817. Since then they had abused him
                    without ceasing. On March 5 they had advertised a caucus which met March 15 to
                    select a candidate to oppose Hendricks for Congress. Nothing was done here but
                    to arrange for a meeting April 28. the first day of court, when the citizens of 
                        Harrison county
                     would attend and might favor candidates at that place. This caucus,
                    however, was abandoned.
            On May 10, the Herald justified caucus nominations as the best
                    way of bringing out candidates, but May 24 one of the editors announced himself
                    as candidate without a caucus nomination.
            About August 1 Thomas Posey was brought forward as candidate by a small caucus at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The Western Sun, which had formerly been hostile
                    to a caucus, was now silent. Hendricks professed the highest respect for Thomas
                    Posey, who had long been in public life. He said he would have withdrawn in
                    favor of Posey but that the latter had been brought forward by his own avowed
                    enemies with the purpose of defeating him. If he had withdrawn it would have
                    given too much satisfaction to his enemies.7
            
            At the first session of the Fifteenth Congress, Hendricks was again placed on the
                    Committee on Public Lands, on which committee he served during his tenure of six
                    years in Congress. During this session he made a speech on the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Canal. March 6, 1818, he offered a resolution regarding the
                    subscription by the 
                        United States
                     for shares in this canal company. Indiana had just passed a law
                    incorporating the company with a capital of $1,000,000, for the
                    purpose of making a canal around the falls of the Ohio
                    river at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . In his speech at the time that he presented the resolution,
                    Hendricks showed the importance of this canal to the States of
                            
                  Kentucky, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio
               , and Indiana, as well as to all the western country.
                    The falls were the only obstacle to the 
                  
                     7
                            Indiana Republican (
                                Madison
                            ), Sept. 16, 1817.
               
                     navigation of the 
                        Ohio
                    ; the removal of this obstacle would have a great bearing on the commerce and prosperity of the West. It was also important
                    from a national point of view, as military stores for the West must pass down
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    . At this time Hendricks mentioned the need of a military road from
                    the Falls to the south head of Lake Michigan, this road to
                    be used for transporting military stores and supplies to 
                        Chicago
                    , Fort Gratiot at the outlet of Lake Huron, and other fortifications
                    west as far as the 
                        Mississippi
                    .8
            
            Hendricks was re-elected to Congress August 3, 1818, over Reuben W. Nelson, and
                    again, August 7, 1820, he defeated the same opponent. In the first session of
                    the Sixteenth Congress, the question of this amendment. He spoke of the policy
                    of the government fol-
                        New York
                     proposed that the bill for admission be amended by incorporating in
                    the fourth section a provision that there be neither slavery nor involuntary
                    servitude in 
                        Missouri
                     except for punishment of crime, and that fugitive slaves be
                        returned.9 Hendricks was in favor of this amendment. He
                    spoke of the policy of the government followed in the Northwest Territory and
                    showed the result of that wise and liberal policy, adding that if this same
                    policy should "roll on with the flood of emigration to the
                    West" it "would add a constellation to the Union equal in
                    luster to the brightest stars of the East."10
            
            He answered the objections of those who opposed Taylor's amendment
                    because they thought it imposed conditions on a State, by saying this was
                    concerned with 
                        Missouri
                     as a territory and not as a State.11 Congress
                    can impose conditions on a territory. It owns the soil of the territory and can
                    prevent citizens, whether from the North or South, from settling that
                        territory.12 Furthermore, it may refuse admission to new
                    States if their constitutions contain anything that might cause invasion and
                    violence. Hendricks went on to show that slavery came under this provision.
                    "Slavery," he said, "is an evil. It is admitted so by
                    all in the South. Its existence is a matter of much lamentation to
                    them." He ended by saying that the Constitution, while providing for
                    slavery, had never meant to foster and cherish it.13
            
            Hendricks was censured for his attitude toward the admission of 
                        Missouri
                    . February 17, 1821, a meeting was got up at Montgom- 
                  
                     8
                            Annals 15th Congress, 1st Session, p. 113.
                  
                     9
                            Annals 16th Congress, 1st Session, p. 947.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., p. 1344.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., p. 1345.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., p. 1347.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., p. 1345
               
                     eryville, Indiana, in which James Noble,
                    who was in the Senate, and Hendricks in the House, were severely denounced for
                    their opposition to admission without restriction. The Indiana legislature, by a
                    vote of 22 to 5, on the other hand, passed censure on Senator Waller Taylor for
                    voting against restriction, and requested its Senators and Representatives to
                    procure the passage of a law by Congress authorizing the people of the Territory
                    of Missourt to revise their constitution, so as to provide that no more slaves
                    be admitted, and that they make no restriction on the right of free persons to
                    settle and reside in their territory.14
            
            In 1822, Hendricks ran for Governor against Barrach B. Dimmich. At the August
                    election he received 18,340 votes, nearly all that were cast. Ratliff Boone was
                    elected Lieutenant Governor. Hendricks resigned from the House and Jonathan
                    Jennings was elected to succeed him. December 4, 1822, Hendricks entered on his
                    duties as Governor.
            In his message to the Legislature of Indiana, December, 1822, he said:
                    "Let us not lose sight of those great objects to which the means of the
                    State should at some future day be devoted—the navigation of the
                    Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , the improvement of the 
                        Wabash
                     and the White rivers and of other streams, and
                    the construction of the National and other roads through the State."15 However, the people of Indiana were struggling under
                    business depression and little was done by the Legislature during the time
                    Hendricks was Governor except in the cause of education.16
                    December 1, 1823, Christopher Harrison made a report of the condition of the
                    three per cent, fund, of which he was the agent. In 1824, the Legislature
                    appointed him and Hendricks commissioners to open a canal around the Falls of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    . Their report was given January 18, 1825.17
                    Very little was done.
            During the time Hendricks was Governor, the capital was changed from Corydon to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .18 The same winter he was elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. The election took place January 12, 1825. On the first
                    ballot, Isaac Blackford received 26 votes, Hendricks 25, and Jonathan Jennings
                    10, scattering 1; on the fourth ballot, Hendricks was elected by a vote of 32 to 
                        Blackford
                    's 30. On February 12, 1825, Hendricks resigned as Governor
                    to become United 
                  
                     14
                            Niles' Register, 19, 415.
                  
                     15 Conklin, Young People's
                                History of Indiana, p. 229
                  
                     16 Smith, History of Indiana,
                            II, p. 712.
                  
                     17 Woollen, Sketches of Early
                                Indiana, p. 165.
                  
                     18 Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , p. 68.
               
                     States Senator. There was no Lieutenant
                    Governor to succeed him, as Ratliff Boone had previously resigned. James B. Ray,
                    President pro tem. of the State Senate, became Acting Governor, serving until
                    December 25, the close of the term.
            Hendricks was elected to a second term in the Senate by the State Legislature
                    December 18, 1830. On the first ballot he received 31 votes, Ratliff Boone 26,
                    John Law 12, Charles Dewey 9, scattering 4; on the fourth ballot Hendricks was
                    elected, receiving 44, 
                        Boone
                     26, Law 9, Dewey 3.
            On entering the Senate in 1825, Hendricks was placed on the Committee on Roads
                    and Canals, on which committee he served during his twelve years in the Senate,
                    acting as chairman from 1830 to 1837. He was a firm believer in internal
                    improvements and favored the building of roads and canals in all parts of the
                    country. On this committee he did some very good work for the West and for his
                    own State.
            His first speech in the Senate was February 14, 1826, on the subject of the 
                        Florida
                     canal. A bill for the survey of 
                        Florida
                     with a view to a canal across it had been reported back by the
                    Committee on Roads and Canals with an amendment providing for the survey of the
                    country between the Apalachicola and Mississippi rivers,
                    with a view to the formation of inland navigation. Hendricks from the Committee
                    on Roads and Canals explained the amendment which would mean the extension of
                    the survey to the Mississippi river. The, Committee had
                    examined the maps of the coast from the Apalachicola to the 
                        Mississippi
                    , showing a continuation of bays, sounds, and inlets that made
                    inland navigation for 350 miles practicable. Hendricks advocated this canal, as
                    it would make it possible for the produce of the western country, coming down
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    , to go in the same boat directly into the canal and then to the
                    Atlantic markets, instead of being stopped at 
                        New Orleans
                    .19
            
            He answered the constitutional objections of those who were opposed by saying
                    that in 1824 a law had been passed authorizing the President to make surveys of
                    roads and canals that were of national importance. Thirty million dollars had
                    been appropriated for this, and if this sum was not all spent, the Secretary of
                    War would direct the survey.20
            
            Hendricks believed that the proposed canal would be very valuable, as it would
                    remove the necessity of navigation across the Gulf 
                  
                     19
                            Congressional Debates, II, p. 91.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., p. 92.
               
                     of Mexico and around the West Indies, and
                    thus relieve commerce of the danger of piracy and shipwreck. He prophesied that
                    the day was not far off when a canal at the Isthmus of Panama would give this
                    proposed canal much of the commerce of the East Indies and the Pacific. The
                    amendment of the Constitution was rejected and the bill that was approved March
                    3, 1826, provided only for the survey of 
                        Florida
                     from the St. Mary's river to the
                    Apalachicola, and from the St. John's river to
                    Suwanee bay. Twenty thousand dollars was appropriated for this work.21
            
            In this same session of Congress the subject of the 
                        Wabash
                    -Erie canal was brought up. Congress had, on May 20, 1824, passed an
                    act authorizing Indiana to open a canal through the public lands to connect the
                        Wabash river and the Maumee of Lake Erie. By this act,
                    ninety feet of land on each side of the canal was to be reserved, and the use of
                    it given to Indiana for the canal.22 If the canal was not
                    completed in twelve years, or if the land was not used for the purpose of
                    building the canal, the reservation was to be void. Every section of land
                    through which the canal passed was to be reserved for future sale until directed
                    by law.23
            
            In 1826, a bill was brought up granting a certain amount of land to Indiana to
                    aid it in opening this canal.24 Hendricks thought this grant
                    should be made while the country was still largely unsettled and the land worth
                    only $1.25 an acre. Some people thought there was no need of such a
                    grant—that the land along the 
                        Wabash
                     should merely be reserved from sale.25
                    Hendricks showed that this would defeat the very object of the canal, as the
                    country along there which they wanted to settle up would be left a desert. He
                    showed the great importance of the proposed canal. The 
                        Wabash
                     he called the "great artery of the Northwest,"
                    which Nature had designed to unite the waters of the East and the West.26 It would be of great value in the case of war, for
                    transportation of military supplies and troops from the 
                        Mississippi
                     to Upper Canada, or from Upper Canada to the South and West. It
                    would also be of vast importance for commerce, connecting as it would the upper
                    countries around the St. Lawrence with the 
                        Mississippi
                    .27
            
            Senator Findlay from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     had remarked that Indiana 
                  
                     21
                            United States Statutes, IV, p. 139.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., p. 47.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., p. 48.
                  
                     24
                            Congressional Debates, II, p. 491.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., p. 592.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., p. 593.
                  
                     27
                            ibid., p. 595.
               
                     was expecting too much. She should be made
                    to build her own canals. The new States were asking for entirely too many laws
                    on the subject of public lands, roads, and canals. Hendricks answered him by
                    saying that this was not the fault of the new States. They had unwisely made a
                    compact with the government not to tax the public lands—hence they
                    had no revenue, with which to build roads and canals; furthermore, as the public
                    lands did not belong to them, they could not make laws regarding them, but must
                    leave that to Congress. He ended by saying that Indiana had cheerfully voted for
                    the equipment of war vessels to protect foreign commerce, and should not be
                    considered extravagant because she asked aid in domestic commerce.28 The bill making this grant was laid on the table at this session,
                    much to Hendricks's disappointment.
            The subject was brought up again the next year at the second session of the
                    Nineteenth Congress, 1826-27. A bill was proposed granting six sections of land
                    to aid Indiana in opening the canal. In a speech made February 9, 1827,
                    Hendricks said the objection made last year, that the land was not yet purchased
                    from the Indians, was done away with. A treaty made with the Indians, October 16
                    and 23, 1826, near the mouth of the Mississinewa river,
                    ceded the land from the 
                        Ohio
                     line to the Tippecanoe river north of the 
                        Wabash
                    . This treaty had been ratified only a few days before.
            Another objection had been, that there were no inhabitants along the line of the
                    canal. Hendricks explained that there was now a settlement at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the land in the vicinity of the canal would be settled very
                    rapidly from now on. If this grant was made to Indiana, the land given would be
                    sold and thus furnish revenue for the building of the canal.29 The efforts of Hendricks and other western men were rewarded. A bill
                    approved March 2, 1827, granted land equal to one-half of five sections in width
                    on each side of the canal, reserving each alternate section to the 
                        United States
                    . The lands given were to be disposed of by the legislature of
                    Indiana. A stipulation was made that the canal should be commenced in five
                    years. Property of the 
                        United States
                     and persons in service of the 
                        United States
                    , were to be allowed the use of the canal without paying toll.30
            
            The second session of the Nineteenth Congress was also occupied 
                  
                     28
                            Congressional Debates, II, p. 596.
                  
                     29
                            Congressional Debates, III, p. 310.
                  
                     30
                            United States Statutes, p. 236.
               
                     with the important question of the public
                    lands. Much of these lands remained unsold after being long in the market. It
                    was thought something should be done to dispose of them. A bill was brought up
                    proposing to graduate the price of lands, so that those remaining unsold March
                    4, 1827, should be offered for sale after one year, at $1 per acre;
                    those unsold after two years from that date to be sold at 75 cents per acre, and
                    so on until they reached 25 cents an acre; lands unsold for one year after they
                    were offered for 25 cents per acre should be ceded to the States in which they
                    were located. Hendricks proposed an amendment, making the first four sections of
                    the bill apply only to the territories; ceding the public and unappropriated
                    lands to the States in which they lay on condition that they should not put
                    these lands on the market at a lower price than was established by law for the
                    sale of lands in the territories; and providing that the States should hereafter
                    extinguish Indian titles.31 In a speech made January 19,
                    1827, he showed the need of a change in the present land system. As the system
                    was, the lands in the new States belonged to the Federal Government, which had
                    exclusive control of them, established the land offices, and got the revenues
                    coming from them, while the old States owned their public lands, had their own
                    land offices and revenues, and laws made by the legislature regarding them.
                    This, Hendricks claimed, was unfair to the new States. Moreover, Congress had to
                    spend a great deal of time passing laws regarding the public lands in the new
                    States which had better be spent on more important subjects, such as commerce,
                    the army, the navy, and foreign relations. Besides, there was trouble in
                    Congress over the question of internal improvements. Large minorities in both
                    Houses denied the power of Congress to build roads and canals, although by
                    compact with the new States it had pledged 5 per cent, from sale of lands for
                    this purpose.32 The graduation bill failed to pass.
            Early in the next Congress, Hendricks brought up the matter of cession again,
                    presenting a resolution regarding the matter, December 20, 1827. He reinforced
                    his former arguments, saying that the sovereignty, freedom, and independence of
                    the new States were much impaired by the present condition of the public lands.
                    The Federal Government, he said, had no constitutional power to hold the soil of
                    the States except for forts and dockyards, the consent of the State legislature
                    being necessary even then. The States which 
                  
                     31
                            Congressional Debates, III, p.
                  
                     32
                            "Ibid., p. 50.
               
                     had ceded the lands of the Northwest
                    Territory had intended that States formed from this land should be received into
                    the Union as sovereign and independent States, on an equality with the old
                        States.33 He also used the argument of secession, saying
                    that public lands in the hands of the general government offered the new States
                    the strongest inducement to the dissolution of the Union, as in that case the
                    land would instantly revert to the States.34 No bill was
                    presented on this subject.
            In the same session, a bill for graduation was again brought up. January 28,
                    1828, Hendricks offered an amendment providing for the cession of lands to the
                    States, making an extended speech.35 This bill was rejected
                    April 22, 1828.
            The next year, Hendricks presented a joint resolution of the Legislature of
                    Indiana regarding cession, asking her Senators to use all their efforts to get a
                    bill passed.36 Similar resolutions had been presented by 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . Another attempt to carry this same matter of graduation and
                    cession through Congress was made in 1830. The General Assembly of 
                        Missouri
                     had presented a memorial praying for the passage of such a law. A
                    bill was brought up in the Senate, May 3, and explained by Senator Benton.37 A new provision was contained in this bill in favor of
                    actual settlers, who could buy lands at each successive graduation for 25 cents
                    less per acre than general purchasers. Provision was also made for donation to
                    poor families without any payments. Hendricks did not like the details of this
                    bill, but was willing to vote for it because it did more than any previous bill
                    toward putting land into the hands of the poor classes, which he regarded as its
                    proper destination. This policy, he thought, would induce the poor of the old
                    States to move to the new.38 This bill failed to pass. With
                    its failure, Hendricks seems to have given up the struggle to change the land
                    system, which he had carried on for several years.
            Hendricks, during his career in the Senate, favored many bills providing for the
                    building of roads. January 10, 1827, he spoke for a House bill providing for the
                    laying out of roads in the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    . General Cass had recommended these roads. They were important
                    because they would go through the country of the Pottawattamies where there was
                    not a single white man living at 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., IV, p. 15.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., p. 17.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., p. 151.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., V, p. 58.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., IV, p. 424.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., p. 425.
               
                     the time. They would cause the country to
                    be settled up quickly.39 The act, approved March 2, 1827,
                    authorized the laying out and opening of roads in 
                        Michigan
                    .40
            
            In 1827, January 30, when a bill to appropriate $15,000 for a road in 
                        Arkansas
                     from Fort Smith to a place in 
                        Louisiana
                     came up, Hendricks favored it, as it was a military road connecting
                    posts on the frontier. The bill was rejected on the ground that it would pass
                    through 
                        Louisiana
                    , a sovereign State. Another bill for the construction of a road
                    from 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               , to
                            
                  Little Rock, Arkansas
               , was brought up in
                    the Senate a few days later, February 1, 1827. Hendricks offered two amendments
                    authorizing the construction of a road from Fort Smith to Fort Towson on the
                        Red river. The amendments were accepted and the bill
                    was passed, March 3, 1827.41
            
            A bill to authorize the 
                        United States
                     to subscribe for stock in the 
                        Ohio
                     Turnpike Company was reported in the Senate in 1827. February 17,
                    1827, Hendricks moved an amendment, proposing a grant of land to 
                        Ohio
                     to be used by the State to aid the turnpike company. This amendment
                    was accepted by the Senate and incorporated in the bill, approved March 3,
                        1827.42
            
            A bill to authorize the subscription to stock in the 
                        Chesapeake
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company came up 1828. May 20, Hendricks spoke in favor of
                    this bill, as he thought this canal would be the means of uniting the feelings
                    and interests of the East and West.43 May 24 1828, a bill
                    was passed, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to subscribe to 10,000
                    shares of stock in the company.
            Hendricks did a great deal for the Cumberland Road. In 1828 when the bill for the
                    completion of the road to 
                  Zanesville, Ohio
               , came up in the Senate, Macon of 
                        South Carolina
                     offered a resolution that Congress relinquish the road to the
                    States through which it passed, and give up claim to the whole of the 5 per
                    cent, fund reserved from the sale of public lands. Hendricks opposed this
                    resolution, as it would change the compacts which had been made by Congress with
                    the States. He did not think this could be done without the consent of the
                    States, although if he should consult the interests of his own State he would
                    favor this proposition, because if the compacts were relinquished, the public
                    lands would revert to 
                  
                     39
                            Congressional Debates, III, p. 55.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., IV, p. 231.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., Ill, p. 377.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., IV, p. 792.
                  
                     43
                            United States Statutes, IV, p. 293.
               
                     the States.44
                    Macon's resolution was rejected, and the act for completion of the road
                    to 
                        Zanesville
                     was passed May 19, 1828. It appropriated $1,750,000 for
                    this work.45
            
            The next year, March 2, an act was passed for opening and making the road west of 
                        Zanesville
                    ; also an act, March 3, 1829, to appropriate $100,000 for
                    the repair of bridges and walls east of Wheeling.46 In 1831,
                    Hendricks favored a bill granting the assent of Congress to an act of the
                    Legislature of 
                        Ohio
                     for erecting toll-gates and providing for the preservation of the
                    road in the State. As the government had refused to erect tollgates, the
                    receipts from which were to be used for repair on the road, Hendricks argued
                    that 
                        Ohio
                     should be allowed to do so. If the government refused to repair the
                    road, the problem might be solved by turning the road over to the State. This
                    Hendricks objected to, as it would be a violation of the compact with the
                    States. The matter was finally settled in 1832, when an agreement was made with
                    the legislatures of 
                  Maryland,
                            Ohio
               , and Indiana
                    that they should receive the road as soon as it was repaired.47
            
            In 1836, 
                        Clay
                     objected to the bill to continue the road in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , saying that it showed favoritism to the North. The country south
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    , he said, was ten times as important as that north, and yet nothing
                    was done for it. Hendricks denied this. He went on to show that the Northwest
                    paid $1,500,000 into the Treasury in 1835 and the South paid not a
                    dollar; the South could tax their lands and the North could not. The North spent
                    millions on roads and canals, making lands more valuable.48
                    The South was always dissatisfied because the government helped the North; but
                    Hendricks showed the prosperity of the North was due, not to gifts and grants,
                    but to energetic people, who moved there; to the fertility of the soil, and to
                    the climate. He showed how this road had been the means of settling up the
                    country to a greater extent than any other road; it was the principal
                    thoroughfare of emigration from Eastern States to the Northwest. The road had
                    been finished to 
                  Hebron, Ohio
               , and given up to the
                    States to be preserved and repaired. He urged that appropriations be made to
                    keep it from being injured by delay and neglect.49 This bill
                    was passed July 2, 1835.
            
               
                  44
                        Congressional Debates, IV, p. 125.
               
                  45
                        United States Statutes, p. 275.
               
                  46
                        Ibid., p. 363.
               
                  47
                        Congressional Debates, X, p. 1142.
               
                  48
                        Ibid., XII, p. 629.
               
                  49
                        Ibid., p. 631.
            
            
            A matter that Hendricks was much interested in was the navigation of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Before 1832, he and Tipton had brought up the subject of the
                    improvement of the 
                        Wabash
                    , trying to have it classed with other works of internal
                    improvement. In 1832, they had been successful. Hendricks introduced a bill
                    March 20, 1832, for the improvement of the navigation of the 
                        Wabash
                    , which became an item in the Harbor Bill of 1832, and was vetoed by
                        Jackson.60 Thinking the President had disapproved of
                    this because it was connected with the Harbor Bill, in 1834 Hendricks presented
                    it as a separate bill and it was again vetoed. In 1835, Tipton submitted a
                    resolution regarding the improvement of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and a bill was reported for the improvement of rapids below 
                        Vincennes
                     by a canal, fifteen miles long. January 2, 1835, the bill was taken
                    up. At this time Hendricks expressed his opinion of Jackson's views on
                    internal improvements, as very injurious to the prosperity of the Union and
                    especially to the West. He held that the Federal Government should improve
                    rivers, since they were public highways, excluded from public surveys, and could
                    not become the property of the State.61
            
            The reason he urged the improvement so strongly was that the canal from the
                    Maumee to the Tippecanoe river was already surveyed and
                    about one-half completed. He thought the rest could be finished by 1837, and he
                    wished the canal made so that navigation would be complete. This bill failed to
                    pass.
            The next year practically the same bill was introduced. Hendricks tried to show
                    the importance of the 
                        Wabash
                    , which, he said, sent to 
                        New Orleans
                     a larger quantity of agricultural products than any other tributary
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    . It was navigable for steamers to the mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , a distance of five hundred miles. However, there were falls below 
                        Vincennes
                    , so that in dry seasons boats could not get out with produce. In
                    1822, Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     had passed laws authorizing examination of obstructions by
                    engineers of each State. Appropriations had been made later, but the States
                    could not do this themselves. This bill failed. Hendricks again, the next year,
                    1837, moved an amendment to the Harbor Bill, but it was negatived.62
            
            Another work of internal improvements in which Hendricks was interested was the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal at the Falls of the 
                  
                     50
                            Congressional Debates, VIII, p. 592.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., XI, p. 84.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., XII, p. 564.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                    . May 25, 1836, the Committee on Roads and Canals reported a bill
                    authorizing the purchase by the 
                        United States
                     of private stock in this canal.53 Their object
                    was to have the canal belong to the government and be thrown open to free
                    navigation, charging only tolls necessary for repairs.64
                    This canal had been built by a company of stockholders in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The company charged such heavy tolls that commerce could not
                    endure it and steamboats employed between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     paid almost their whole value in one year in tolls.55 This bill was not passed.
            Mr. Hendricks was in favor of a tariff, for the encouragement of manufacturing.
                    When the question of the tariff was brought up in 1832, 
                        Clay
                    , January 10, presented his resolution to reduce duties on certain
                    imported articles—perfumes, fancy articles, tropical
                    fruits,—not coming into competition with similar articles in the 
                        United States
                    .56 Hendricks made a long speech on this
                    resolution in which he objected to the abolition of duties on articles that were
                    luxuries and used only by people of cities and seaboard. He spoke of the new
                    policy of the government in reducing the revenue for fear of a surplus. He said
                    men of the West had been looking forward to, instead of fearing, a surplus as a
                    means of a permanent and enlarged plan of internal improvements. He would never
                    vote to reduce revenues of the country to the minimum of current expenditures,
                    as it would be farewell to internal improvements and to all hopes of modifying
                    the land system.57
            
            In the controversy between Jackson and Congress on the subject of the National
                    Bank, in 1835, Hendricks expressed himself on the need of a national bank as a
                    currency regulator. He preferred a 
                        United States
                     Bank located in 
                        Washington
                    , as this would do away with constitutional difficulties. The bonus
                    should be distributed among the States in proportion. The Bank should locate
                    branches in the States only by permission of the State Legislatures, and States
                    should be prohibited from taxing the banks.58
            
            The distress of this time, Hendricks attributed to the excitement caused by the
                    removal of deposits rather than the removal itself. Hendricks thought the
                    removal was unfortunate, although he did not doubt the power of the President to
                    remove. He had voted against the resolution of censure passed by the Senate on
                    Jackson.
            
               
                  53
                        Ibid., p. 1564.
               
                  54
                        Ibid., p. 1565.
               
                  55
                        Ibid., XI, p. 1566.
               
                  56
                        Ibid., VIII, p. 614.
               
                  57
                        Ibid., p. 615.
               
                  58
                  Ibid., X, p. 1808.
            
            
            On December 26, 1836, Benton presented a resolution to expunge from the journal
                    the resolution of March 28, 1834, censuring Jackson for having moved the
                        deposits.59 Hendricks would not vote for the resolution.
                    In a debate, January 16, 1837, he said he thought this resolution had done more
                    harm through exciting party spirit than any other measure that could have been
                    proposed, but he would not consent to its being expunged, as such a power did
                    not exist in the Senate. He was willing to vote in the journal of the present
                    session to rescind the resolution of 1834, but not to obliterate the journal.
                    Daniel Webster sided with Hendricks and voted against the Expunging
                        Resolution.60
            
            In 1835, the question of the northern boundary of 
                        Ohio
                     occupied some time in the Senate. The northern boundary of the
                    Territory of Indiana had been an east and west line tangent to the southern bend
                    of Lake Michigan. When Indiana was admitted to the Union
                    this line was moved north ten miles in order that the State might have a harbor
                    on the lake. The inhabitants of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory resented this action and never conceded its legality.
                    When the question of the northern boundary of 
                        Ohio
                     came up in Congress for final settlement, Hendricks proposed as an
                    amendment that the north line of Indiana, as established by the enabling act of
                    1816, and as surveyed according to an act of Congress dated March 2, 1827, be
                    extended to Lake Erie, to become the northern boundary of 
                  Ohio. Michigan
                claimed to come south to the east and
                    west line through the southern extremity of Lake Michigan,
                    a claim they based on the fifth article of the Ordinance of 1787. Hendricks
                    claimed that by this same article Congress could merge 
                        Michigan
                     with Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Illinois
                    . He regarded the chief part of the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                     in the peninsula as taken from Indiana. Hendricks's
                    amendment was incorporated in the second section of a bill to establish the
                    northern boundary of 
                        Ohio
                    , approved June 23, 1836.62
            
            At the first session of the Twenty-Fourth Congress, Mr. Lyon and John Norvell,
                    claiming to be Senators of the 
                        United States
                     for 
                        Michigan
                    , appeared in the Senate. Benton offered a resolution, December 22,
                    1835, that they be allowed seats in the Senate as spectators, until the final
                    decision was made as to the admission of 
                        Michigan
                     into the Union. 
                        Michigan
                     had already asked for admission.68
            
            
               
                  59
                        Ibid., XIII, p. 128.
               
                  60
                        Ibid., p. 471.
               
                  61
                        Ibid., XI, p. 113.
               
                  62
                        Ibid., p. 112.
               
                  63
                        Ibid., XII, p. 36.
            
            
            Hendricks objected to this resolution, because 
                        Michigan
                     claimed a part of the Territory of Indiana, and with this claim,
                    she could never be admitted to the Union. He offered an amendment to
                    Benton's resolution, providing that the same courtesy be extended to
                    Norvell as a spectator in the Senate, which by the rules of the Senate were
                    extended to the delegates of the territories and members of the House of
                    Representatives. Lyon was already a delegate in the House, so he was not
                    included. Hendricks' resolution was agreed to.64
            
            At the same session, the memorial of 
                        Michigan
                     asking to be admitted as a State was presented. Hendricks resisted
                    the pretensions of 
                        Michigan
                    , which claimed admission as a sovereign and independent State. He
                    regarded 
                        Michigan
                     as having violated the laws of the 
                        United States
                     in establishing territorial government in 
                        Michigan
                    . This territory had not asked permission of Congress to form a
                    constitution and State government. He thought that they should do this first, or
                    else amend the constitution, adopting proper boundaries.65
            
            At the second session of the Twenty-Third Congress, Hendricks offered a
                    resolution regarding the fixing by law of the time of the commencement and close
                    of the sessions of Congress.66 The sessions had come to be
                    very long. That of 1831-32 had lasted until July 16; that of 1833-34 until June
                    30. These long sessions, Hendricks thought, served only to heighten the party
                    strife and national discord, as no more was done than in short sessions.67 His resolution was agreed to, and a bill reported, fixing
                    the beginning of the session for the first Monday of November, and the day of
                    adjournment of the first session of every Congress for the second Monday in
                        May.68 This bill was passed by the Senate and House, but
                    vetoed by Jackson, who regarded it as unconstitutional. He regarded the day of
                    adjournment as a question to be settled only by each Congress, although the day
                    of opening could be fixed by law.
            During his second term in the Senate, Hendricks served on the Committee on Indian
                    Affairs, on the Committee on Private Land Claims, and from 1832 to 1837, on the
                    Committee on Militia. While on the Committee on Indian Affairs, he showed his
                    acquaintance 
                  
                     64
                            Congressional Debates, XII, p. 39.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., p. 288.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., p. 42.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., p. 44.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., p. 1649.
               
                     with the character of Indians. In 1830,
                    January 14, he advocated settling the Miamis and the Pottawatomies west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .69 The Miamis lived on the south shore of the 
                        Wabash
                    . The canal was located through their reservation, and this led to
                    quarrels between the Indians and white men, often ending in bloodshed.70
            
            It was Hendricks's practice to issue a circular, near the close of every
                    session, to the people of Indiana, in which he reviewed the work of that
                    session. These were printed in the newspapers of the times. In his circular of
                    June 30, 1836, he discussed the question of surplus revenue, which had come up
                    during the session about to close, July 4. The surplus on hand June 9, 1835, was
                    $33,000,000. It was proposed to get rid of this by distribution among
                    the States, by building fortifications and ships of war, or by the Land Bill. He
                    had voted for the Land Bill, which had passed the Senate. As it was long before
                    the House, and seemed as if it would not pass, he had voted for a distribution
                    among the States.
            The question of slavery had come up at this session. Hendricks expressed his
                    opinion of the Abolitionists as misguided in their efforts. "For with
                    the question of slavery, except in the District of 
                        Columbia
                    , this government has nothing whatever to do. Slavery in the States
                    is a question belonging exclusively to themselves. Slavery, it must be admitted,
                    is a dangerous and deep-rooted evil in our political system, but it is one for
                    which there seems to be no remedy, and the less the subject is agitated here and
                    elsewhere, the better it is for the peace and welfare of the Union."71
            
            In his circular written from Washington, February 14, 1837, Hendricks again
                    discussed the subject of slavery in connection with the agitation about the
                    annexation of 
                        Texas
                    . He spoke of the condition of slavery in the South, and the spirit
                    of abolition in the North. "This," he said, "is the
                    rock on which the vessel of the Union is likely to split. Xon-slaveholding
                    States have nothing to do with slavery in the Southern States. This is a matter
                    of State regulation altogether." He thought that 
                        Texas
                    , whether it was annexed or not, would induce a great slave
                    immigration there, and thus prevent too great an accumulation of slaves further
                        south.72
            
            Hendricks's retirement from public life came in 1837, as a result of the
                    overthrow of the Jacksonian party in Indiana by the Harrison-Whig 
                  
                     69
                            Zbid., VI, p. 17.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., VI, p. 17.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Canal Telegraph, Aug. 6, 1836.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Canal Telegraph, March IS, 1837.
               
                     upheaval of 1836. As he was about to leave
                    the Senate, Hendricks summed up his public life in Indiana. He said that he had
                    always worked for the interest of his State with zeal, devotion, and fidelity,
                    and ended by saying:
            "Whatever may have been the ardor and intensity of my zeal and industry
                    in her service, and of my devotion to her interests; whatever may have been the
                    buffeting of political life, and the fiery ordeal through which I have passed;
                    conscious I am that I shall never cease to owe her a debt of gratitude and one
                    so large that I shall never be able to pay it.
            "Neither prosperity nor adversity can ever eradicate those things from
                    my mind, nor separate me in heart and affection from the people of the State. I
                    have seen many days of her prosperity, in which she has grown and flourished
                    like a green bay tree. I have seen many of her important interests arising into
                    existence. Some of them in infancy have been especially committed to my care;
                    some of these have since gained colossal size and strength, and now march
                    forward with irresistible power, overcoming by their own energies everything
                    that comes in their way. Such is the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, and the Cumberland Road. These were the first
                    important works commenced in our State, and they are still, and ever will be,
                    the main arteries in our system of internal improvements.
            "Whilst I shall live to behold the waters of the 
                        Mississippi
                     united with those of the Northern Lakes,
                    through the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, I shall not cease to look back with pride and
                    pleasure to the part it was my lot to bear in giving impulse to that first and
                    most magnificent of our works of internal navigation."73
            
            Hendricks was interested in education, and contributed to the support of Indiana
                    University and 
                        Hanover
                     College. He helped in many public enterprises.74 By this interest in many things, as well as through his public service,
                    he was for many years the most popular man in Indiana. He was large and fine
                    looking, with a smile and a warm handshake for every one.75
                    His manners were very pleasing. He never did anything to antagonize any one if
                    he could help it.76
            
            Hendricks's family was one of the most prominent in the history of
                    Indiana. His eldest son, John Abram, was a captain in the Mexican 
                  
                     73
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Canal Telegraph, March 18, 1837.
                  
                     74 Woollen, Sketches of Early
                                Indiana, p. 53.
                  
                     75
                            Indiana Gazeteer, 1850.
                  
                     76 O. H. Smith, Trials and
                            Sketches, p. 86.
               
                     War, and lieutenant colonel in the Civil
                    War when he was killed at the battle of Pea Ridge. Another son, Thomas, was also
                    killed in this war. A brother and nephew were in the State Senate. Thomas A.
                    Hendricks, Governor of Indiana, 
                        United States
                     Senator, and Vice-President of the 
                        United States
                    , was a nephew.77
            
            Hendricks died at his farm in 
                        Jefferson county
                    , Indiana, May 16, 1850. He had been in feeble health the greater
                    part of the winter and spring, but had recovered enough to attend to his
                    business. On the afternoon of May 16, he had attended a session of the city
                    council, and then went to his farm, where he died of heart disease. He was
                    buried in a vault at 
                        Springdale
                     Cemetery, 
                        Madison
                    .78
            
            
               
                  77 Woollen, Sketches of ‘Early
                            Indiana, p. 54.
               
                  78
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Weekly Journal, May 30, 1850.
            
         
         
         
            THE INDIANS ON THE MISSISSINEWA
            SARAH JANE LINE, 
                        Marion
                    
            
            [In view of the interest now taken in marking historic sites in Indiana, it has
                    been thought worth while to publish the following facts concerning the Indians
                    on the Mississinewa, and the battle fought between them and a detachment of
                    General Harrison's forces on the banks of that river, in 
                        Grant county
                    , at the close of the year 1812.]
            ACCORDING to Indian tradition, the Miamis came to the Mississinewa from the Big
                    Miami near 
                  Piqua, Ohio
               . Previous to this their
                    chief had accompanied a white man to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and while there George Washington, President of the 
                        United States
                    , had given him some presents and a parchment on which there was
                    writing. This made the other tribes jealous. Soon the chief sickened and died,
                    and his people believed he was poisoned. Fearing the Pottawattomies, the Miamis
                    came to the most beautiful river in Indiana, the Mississinewa.1
            
            Its high cliffs alternating from side to side, its winding bed composed of gravel
                    and stone, were favorite haunts of the Miamis. The adjoining lands were the red
                    man's ideal. They were overshadowed with one unbroken forest of black
                    walnut, hard maple, hickory, elm, sycamore, and great thickets of undergrowth.
                    The wild plum trees yielded their fruit in season. The wild grape, the black and
                    white walnut, the beech, the oak, and mulberry also yielded their store. The
                    luxuriant vines and grasses furnished pasturage. All the various animals common
                    to the country were here, together with flocks of wild geese in countless
                    numbers, ducks, and turkey, affording food of the most delicious character.
            The beautiful river with its many tributaries afforded easy access to these
                    lands. This stream was well stocked with numerous varieties of fish; while its
                    clear waters made them an easy prey to the agile Indian, skilled with the bow
                    and arrow. The springs, gushing from the banks, furnished an abundance of
                    excellent water for man and beast.
            It was this paradise of nature that so attracted Frances Slocum, a little girl
                    who was captured by an Indian in the Wyoming Valley, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and carried here in Revolutionary times. Many years later Frances
                    was found here in Indian garb, leading an Indian life. 
                  
                     1
                            Historical Atlas of 
                                    Grant County
                                
                     , p. 16.
               
                     She loved the Mississinewa too much to go
                    back to her relatives, and was buried with Indian rites in their burying ground
                    on its banks.2
            
            But with all this loveliness of nature the Indian found himself constantly
                    disturbed by the white man. The whites were increasing rapidly in number, and
                    were very eager for this land. The Miamis became alarmed for fear they should be
                    overpowered. When Little Turtle, who was born about the year 1747, became chief,
                    he expressed himself as anxious to do all in his power to preserve peaceful
                    relations between the white and red people. Little Turtle, or
                    Me-chi-quin-no-quah, distinguished himself as a warrior above all rivals. He was
                    the acknowledged war chief at the time of St. Clair's expedition
                    against the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians. He directed the movement of his dusky army which resulted
                    in the defeat of the Americans. In 1792 he commanded a body of Indians who made
                    a violent attack on a detachment of 
                        Kentucky
                     volunteers, under the walls of Fort St. Clair near Eaton, 
                        Ohio
                    , but the savages were repulsed with considerable loss. He was also
                    at the action of Fort Recovery in June, 1794. However, the campaign of General
                    Wayne proved too skillful for the Turtle, and he was defeated at Fallen Timbers.
                    Prior to this battle a council of Indian chiefs was held in which Little Turtle
                    showed his sagacity by refusing to attack the forces of General Wayne. At his
                    death, which occurred July 14, 1812, he was succeeded by Peeon, an Indian with
                    one large eye and one small one. Peeon listened to the warlike eloquence of
                    Tecumseh, and sanctioned the hostile acts of the Miamis.3
            
            Previous to this, General Hopkins organized a military force to operate in the
                    Indian country. His troops were divided into three regiments of 
                        Kentucky
                     militia, commanded by Colonels Barbour, Miller, and Wilcox. Also a
                    small company of regulars under Captain Zachary Taylor, a company of rangers
                    under Captain Benjamin V. Beckes, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and a company of scouts commanded by Captain Washburn. They
                    started from 
                        Vincennes
                    , and moved northward very slowly until they reached the east bank
                    of the 
                        Wabash
                     opposite the Prophet's town, where they encamped. They had
                    been expected for a long time by the Indians, and this made it necessary for the
                    white men to guard their troops well. Accordingly, a party of ten or twelve
                    mounted men was sent out in different directions as scouts to reconnoitre the
                    country. A portion of these, John La Plante, Dr. Gist, and a man named Dunn,
                    when 
                  
                     2
                            Indiana Magazine of History, I, p. 119.
                  
                     3
                            History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                
                     , p. 25.
               
                     about six miles from camp, discovered a
                    small party of Indians. La Plante, who was formerly an Indian trader, soon saw
                    that the Indians meant to cut them off from their camp. He urged his comrades to
                    make their escape with him. However, Gist and Dunn wanted to get the number of
                    the enemy. They watched their movements until the Indians were upon them. La
                    Plante put spurs to his horse and made his escape without difficulty. Gist
                    finally escaped, but Dunn was' shot down and killed.
            The Indians, consisting of Miamis, Winnebagoes, Kickapoos, and Pottawatomies,
                    numbering about seven hundred, had not been idle. They were strongly encamped on
                    the bank of the Wild Cat. Their scouting party of warriors who had killed Dunn
                    cut off his head and set it up on a stake at the spot where his body lay, the
                    face in the direction of their camp. The Indians rightly inferred that some
                    portion of the troop, on the next day, would visit the spot where the scout
                    fell, to bury his body and to search the country for their enemy. Thus the dusky
                    warriors determined to prepare an ambuscade for them. They posted themselves in
                    a long and deep ravine heavily shaded with forest trees, leading to Wild Cat
                    creek, about a mile and a quarter from the spot where Dunn's body lay,
                    with directions to one of their braves to post himself there and upon the
                    arrival of the white troops to entice them into the fatal ravine.
            When our troops approached, Colonel Miller discovered an Indian, who put spurs to
                    his horse as if to make his escape. Miller immediately raised the yell and the
                    troops hastily followed in pursuit of the Indian. They could have shot him
                    several times, but it seems to have been their purpose to capture him alive. The
                    Indian uttered loud yells, probably as a signal to his concealed comrades. Thus
                    the white men rushed into the ambuscade. Thirteen of them were shot dead at the
                    first fire. Defense was hopeless. The survivors put spurs to their horses and
                    fled as rapidly as they could. For this reason the ambuscade was called
                    "Spurs Defeat." General Hopkins said, "I have no
                    doubt but their grounds were the strongest I have ever seen." The
                    Indians, it is said, peeled the bark from several trees and painted them black
                    and red, significant of defiance. Immediately after this victory they began
                    planning a more aggressive campaign against the whites.4
            
            Soon the Miamis, with some Delawares from the site of the present city of 
                        Muncie
                    , on the White river, assembled in the towns on
                    the Mississinewa, fifteen or twenty miles from its confluence with 
                  
                     4
                            History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                
                     , pp. 53-55.
               
                     the 
                        Wabash
                     and near the boundary line between the present counties of 
                        Wabash
                     and Grant. As they were there for hostile purposes, Harrison
                    resolved to disperse or destroy them. Harrison was commander of the army of the
                    Northwest at this time, with his headquarters at 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               . He selected a strong detachment of his army to
                    accomplish his purpose. This detachment consisted of about six hundred mounted
                    riflemen, under the command of Colonel John B. Campbell, of the Nineteenth
                    regiment of 
                        Kentucky
                     dragoons (commanded by Major James V. Ball); a corps of infantry,
                    consisting of Captain Elliot's company of the Nineteenth regiment; 
                        Butler
                    's Pittsburg Blues; and Alexander's 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Riflemen. Harrison advised that they inform themselves as minutely
                    as possible about the nature of the country, and the situation of the Indians
                    along the Mississinewa, from David Conner, an old pioneer, whose business was to
                    trade with the Indians.5
            
            According to his relatives, David Conner was one of the first white men to visit
                    the Mississinewa and the Indian villages along it in 
                        Grant
                     and 
                        Wabash counties
                    . For years he ran a kind of skiff or flatboat on the river, and had
                    stated places to stop, where he would blow a horn and all the Indians in hearing
                    who wished to buy or sell would meet him for the purpose of trade. He continued
                    in this trade until the 19th day of October, 1825, when he bought of the
                    government a fraction of the northeast quarter of section twenty-four in
                    Pleasant township. At the same time he purchased of Goldsmith Gilbert a small
                    store located on this parcel of land, and at once established a trading post.
                    This place became the scene of the wildest and most barbarous acts. The Indians
                    would assemble there after their hunting expeditions and trade their furs for
                    whiskey, and when drunk, their savage natures knew no restraint. They would
                    engage in bloody hand to hand encounters. The stronger, after overcoming the
                    weaker, has been known to cast his victim on a burning pile of logs and keep him
                    there until roasted alive.
            Mr. Conner is buried in the field just a short distance west of where his store
                    stood. The original tombstone has been replaced with a respectable monument
                    containing the following inscription: "David Conner—Aug. 9,
                    1844; Aug. 8, 1771." His grave is enclosed with a heavy stone wall
                    twenty-four feet long, twelve feet wide, three and one-half feet high.
            Following closely their general's advice, Colonel Campbell and 
                  
                     5 Lossing, Field Book of War of
                            1S12, p. 346.
               
                     his men left 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , in the middle of December, 1812, on an
                    eighty-mile march to the Mississinewa towns. There had been quite a delay in
                    procuring horses. Each soldier was required to carry twelve days'
                    rations and a bushel of corn. The weather was severely cold, nevertheless they
                    marched forty miles the first two days. On the third day they made a forced
                    march and covered forty miles during the day and night, reaching the
                    battleground on the Mississinewa.6 This spot overlooks a
                    beautiful bend and stretch of the river, about a mile from the site of the
                    little town of 
                        Jalapa
                    , Pleasant township, 
                        Grant county
                    . They had come by way of 
                  Springfield, Xenia,
                            Dayton
               , Eaton, and 
                        Greenville
                    . This route was more distant from the 
                        Delaware
                     towns, which they wished to avoid because of friendly relations
                    existing between that tribe and the 
                        United States
                    . They feared that the march of an armed force through the Indian
                    country might excite them and drive them over to the British.7
            
            On the eve of December 16, 1812, 
                        Campbell
                    's army reached the mouth of the Me-to-cin-iah creek, as
                    stated above, and went into camp. About 8 o'clock on the next morning,
                    December 17, before they had been discovered,. they made an attack upon the
                    Indian towns lying on the west bank of the creek. Many Indians fled across the
                    river, others surrendered. Those who fled made resistance, after crossing the
                    river, by firing back across the stream at the whites. Eight Indians were killed
                    and forty-two men, women, and children were taken prisoners. The entire village
                    was burned, with the exception of a house or two in which prisoners were kept.
                    Cattle and other stock were shot. Leaving the infantry to guard the prisoners,
                    Campbell moved farther west, and burned three other villages, killed many more
                    cattle, and took several horses. Then, the troops retraced their journey,
                    reaching the mouth of the Me-to-cin-iah creek on the eve of December 17, and
                    went into camp.
            This time their encampment was in the form of a hollow square, with Captain Young
                    and Captain Hopkins on the north, Major Ball's squadron on the west,
                    the Nineteenth 
                        United States
                     infantry, Pittsburg Blues, and the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     riflemen on the south, and Colonel Simrall's regiment on
                    the east. The prisoners were in the center, where the horses were also tied to
                    the trees. Also a small company of scouts and guides were placed in the center
                    as a reserve.
            The encampment was surrounded by practically level ground, very 
                  
                     6 Logging, Field Book of War of
                            1812, p. 346.
                  
                     7 Indiana Magazine of History,
                            III, p. 38.
               
                     heavily timbered except for about forty
                    feet down toward the river, where the trees were not so large and the
                    undergrowth much heavier. There was a steep bluff adjacent to the river
                    bank—a stone ledge fifteen feet high. From this point the Indians
                    made their attack.
            There is a love story in connection with this last attack. When Joseph
                    Richardville, the proud son of a chief, learned that his sweetheart had been
                    taken prisoner and carried away, he determined to seek revenge and secure his
                    mate at the peril of his life. He secured the help and service of John Godfrey,
                    a warrior of royal blood. Immediately they assembled a council on the night of
                    the 17th, and gathering together their warriors proceeded to attack Colonel
                    Campbell before daybreak on the following morning. It is said that many of the
                    best Indian warriors were away on a hunting trip, and could not be summoned home
                    in time for this attack.
            As soon as Colonel Campbell heard the savage yell he gave the order "To
                    arms," and a most desperate conflict commenced, the Indians leading the
                    attack from the undergrowth near the ledge along the river. The exact number of
                    the Indian warriors is unknown, but it has been estimated at between two hundred
                    and three hundred. In any case their force was far inferior to that of the white
                    men. Lieutenant Pierce met his death gallantly. Lieutenant Waltz was shot
                    through the arm, but being unwilling to leave the fight he endeavored to mount
                    his horse, and while making the effort was shot through the head. Lieutenants
                    Basey and Hickman were slightly wounded. The battle raged furiously for about an
                    hour, when the Indians became demoralized and soon, panic-stricken, leaped over
                    the fifteen foot bluff into the river, crossed over, and followed a ravine south
                    about a mile where it emerged from a dismal swamp overgrown with willows and
                    flag. Here they secreted themselves until nightfall, leaving fifteen of their
                    number dead on the field and forty wounded.8 The whites lost
                    eight killed and thirty wounded. The horses suffered most
                    severely—the number killed being estimated at from seventy-two to one
                    hundred and forty. Their white bones lay bleaching on the field for many years.
                    As to the soldiers who were slain, it has been said the Indians disinterred
                    their bodies, scalped them and then burned them. This is probably true.
            The Indians who were taken prisoners were nearly all Munsies, and were included
                    in those who composed Silver Heel's band. Colonel 
                  
                     8
                            Niles' Register, III, p. 200.
               
                     Campbell sent two messengers to the
                    Delawares who lived on White river, and who had been
                    directed to abandon their towns and remove into 
                        Ohio
                    . He repeatedly expressed his regret at having killed some of their
                    people, and urged them to move to the Shawa-noe settlement on the
                        Auglaize river. Soon the Delawares with a small number
                    of Miamis moved to 
                        Ohio
                    , and came under protection of the 
                        United States
                     Government.9
            
            Colonel Campbell heard that Tecumseh with five hundred warriors was on the
                    Mississinewa a few miles below. Without calling a council, the commander ordered
                    a retreat for 
                        Greenville
                    . He sent a messenger, Captain Hite, for re-enforcements and
                    supplies, for he expected to be attacked on the way. The savages did not pursue.
                    It was a dreadful journey for the sick and wounded, as the weather was bitterly
                    cold. They moved slowly, for seventeen men had to be conveyed on litters. Every
                    night the camp was fortified by a breastwork. At last they met provisions, with
                    an escort of ninety men under Major Adams. All moved forward together, and on
                    December 25, with three hundred men so frostbitten as to be unfit for duty, the
                    little army arrived at 
                        Greenville
                    . More than one-half of the corps that a month before had set out on
                    the expedition into the wilderness were now lost to the service for a while.
                    They had accomplished their errand, but at a great cost.10
            
            This battle had a decisive influence, because it cut off the aid and supplies
                    furnished by the Miamis to the other Indians. It closed forever the war record
                    of that powerful people. The Miamis' warlike spirit was crushed by the
                    experience of that eventful day on the Mississinewa.
            By the second article of the treaty of November 6, 1830, the Me-to-cin-iah
                    reservation was established. It began at a point where the
                        Mississinewa river crosses the eastern boundary line of
                    the Big Reserve, thence down this river with its meanderings to Forked Branch,
                    thence north two miles, thence east in a direct line to a -point on the eastern
                    boundary line two miles north of the place of beginning, thence south to the
                    place of beginning. It was supposed to contain ten square miles. On November 28,
                    1840, the government conveyed this land by patent to Meshingomesia and his
                        band.11
            
            Meshingomesia, the last chief of the Miamis, was born near the place where
                    Metociniah creek empties into the Mississinewa river, 
                  
                     9 Lossing, Field Book of War of
                            1812, p. 348.
                  
                     10 Lossing, Field Book of War of
                            1812, p. 347.
                  
                     11
                            Indian Land Cessions, p. 774.
               
                     and at the place where Colonel Campbell
                    destroyed the first Indian village. He was naturally of a reserved, quiet, and
                    inoffensive nature, and possessed many estimable, moral, and intellectual
                    qualities. After his conversion to the Christian religion he became a steadfast
                    adherent. On Sunday morning it was a common occurence to see him leading his
                    decrepit wife to his favorite church-house to worship. His body was buried in
                    the rear of the village church, and a marble shaft erected to his memory,
                    containing the following inscription: "Me-Shing-O-Me-Sia, died Dec. 16,
                    1879, aged about 98 years." He united with the Baptist church, and was
                    baptized the second Sunday in June, 1861, and lived a consistent Christian.
            The other Indians relinquished all their lands in Indiana, not held by patent,
                    for the sum of $550,000. They agreed to leave in five years, but
                    their removal was delayed until 1847.
            Thomas Richardville, a Miami, advised the Indians to petition Congress for a
                    division of the land. In reply to this, Chief Mesh-ingomesia told his band the
                    sad result with as much precision as if his words had been prophetic. By Act of
                    Congress approved June 1, 1872, the reserve was partitioned among the bands and
                    patents issued in severalty. The lands were exempted from taxation and were not
                    subject to sale by the owner. As soon as they had gained possession of their
                    land in severalty, they proceeded to contract debts, borrow money, and secure
                    its payment by mortgages.12 Others contracted marriage with
                    whites who were worthless spendthrifts. Legal proceedings were instituted
                    against them,13 judgments rendered, their lands sold, and
                    they vanished away with even greater rapidity than their forest trees. They
                    became poorer than the least successful white farmers. For example, ten sections
                    of land were reserved to the Peconga band. Few of their descendants now have
                    anything left, and William Teconya, a grandson, recently asked an old
                    acquaintance for a dime to pay his car-fare to see his brother. All their former
                    lands now belong to white men, with the exception of seventy-five acres.
            It will be but a few years until the battleground will be the property of the
                    State and thrown open to the public as a park. In this way the once bloody spot
                    will be a continual reminder of those days when the white men and the red men
                    fought for supremacy in our fair State of Indiana.
            
               
                  12
                        Land Cessions, p. 775.
               
                  13
                        Indiana Magazine of History, III, p. 36.
            
         
         
         
            SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHING CIVIL GOVERNMENT
            LOGAN ESAREY Indiana University
            THERE are at the present time several hundred history teachers in the State of
                    Indiana teaching to several thousand pupils in the public schools of the State
                    the elements of politics or civil government. These teachers are, and will be
                    held, largely responsible for the citizenship of the next generation. It is
                    claimed, and it is perhaps true, that no cause has prospered less in the last
                    century than that of good government. The recent transition from monarchy to
                    democracy, necessitating the elevation of the most numerous class of the people
                    from the lowest place to the highest in society, is no doubt partly responsible
                    for this comparative lack of progress! Science, it is pointed out, has in this
                    same period of time developed a body of technical knowledge and skill, so far
                    beyond the grasp of the average man that experts are required in all of its
                    various fields of activity. Its latest move has placed an agricultural expert in
                    charge of the schools of each county, and a psychological expert in charge of
                    the State Reformatory. No city council now undertakes-to build streets, sewers,
                    waterworks, or other utilities without the aid of a civil engineer. Society in
                    city, county, and State has placed all questions of hygiene and health in the
                    hands of medical experts. The churches and schools are administered by experts,
                    specially educated for a special purpose. In short, society has turned over to
                    experts about all its various fields of service, except the field of government.
                    The ordinary education of the ordinary individual in the ordinary schools is not
                    sufficient for any of the ordinary social services, usually called professions,
                    except that of governing, the most difficult of them all. It is not strange that
                    the work of most of our officers seems crude and blundering. It is the work of
                    the inexpert against that of the expert.
            Attempts have been made to introduce expert service into the government.
                    Controllers have been appointed by city councils; attorneys,—city,
                    State, and county—are often employed, but in almost all cases the
                    offices have not been properly safeguarded and are soon filled by persons of no
                    better ability than those who employ them,—an expert office filled by
                    an untrained officer. People who would not tolerate an untrained teacher,
                    preacher, or physician,  will not only
                    tolerate an untrained officer but defend him. In the former cases there is a
                    definite attempt to secure the best possible service, while in the latter there
                    is no such effort.
            The remedy for this state of things does not lie in the direction of
                    abusing'our officers. They are just as good as the rest of us and-no
                    better. There is the trouble. The physician is a better physician than the
                    ordinary man; the lawyer is a better lawyer; and so with the other
                    professionally trained men. It will do no good to turn out one blunderer and put
                    in another. The remedy for this lies in and through the public schools, the
                    churches, and the press. When the public is brought to see clearly the value of
                    expert service in government it will be just as impatient of the unskilled
                    officer as it is now of the unskilled physician or engineer. It will no longer
                    stand for the ordinary or unskilled service. The fundamental condition of better
                    government lies in the direction of better education, and consists largely in a
                    wider intelligence. The philosophy that reform comes only through education is
                    as old as Erasmus, and is as sound as it is old.
            The problem then takes on the double aspect, of the need of a better education
                    and of a wider intelligence, if such a distinction may be made. History is not
                    an old subject in the school curriculum. For many years after it obtained a
                    position it was merely a handmaid to the classics, and consequently limited to
                    the history of the classical nations. It is entirely probable that the more one
                    knows about classical history the less he is fitted for becoming a modern
                    government official. Statecraft was almost the reverse in classic times from
                    what it is hoped to make it at the present day. Governing was a profitable
                    business in those old days, and as such was plied by a favored class. People
                    were governed for the benefit of the governors—king, tyrant, senate,
                    city or whatever the governing power happened to be. The same idea underlies
                    sinister forms of government to-day, such as are referred to by the terms
                    "ring rule," "boss rule,"
                    "invisible government" and the like. Most of our present day
                    "grafters" work along the lines of classic models. The idea of
                    profit permeated classical politics just as it still does that of many people
                    to-day. This change of view concerning the duties of government officials will
                    come only after long teaching, preaching, and writing. The history teacher must
                    do more than anyone else to bring this about, but he cannot do it all. It must
                    be definitely recognized that an official is selected for office on account of
                    some expert service he is able to render society, and not that so-  ciety may confer some favor on him. Short of this
                    as a foundation in public opinion we cannot hope for the best government. Some
                    writers have wrongly stated this: Government is still carried on as formerly for
                    the benefit of the governing class; but since the governing class is a majority,
                    government must do what is best for the majority. Such an idea might have done
                    for the Italian cities of the Middle Ages, or may do for the Spanish republics
                    of South and Central America at present; but it will not serve for the
                    cornerstone of an enlightened State. Such a theory will lead to a continual
                    struggle for the control of the government that it may be used for the benefit
                    of the continually lessening number that will control it. This whole matter is a
                    question of ideals, and an unskillful or ignorant history teacher in this work
                    is just as much of a calamity to a community as a health officer who does not
                    know the source of typhoid fever.
            So much for ideals as a basis for civil government. Now what can be done in a
                    more positive, direct way to make the future citizens more intelligent
                    concerning government? One of the worst features of our political situation is
                    the custom of carrying national issues and party organization over into local
                    elections, so that instead of electing capable officers we are primarily
                    concerned in electing Democrats or Republicans. The writer has in mind a young
                    foreigner who, for political reasons, was put on the ticket and elected road
                    supervisor. He had an idea that the ditch that drains the road should be in the
                    center of the roadway, especially on the hills. As a consequence, the roads of
                    the district were ruined. In the same county for a similar reason a clerk of the
                    circuit court was elected who was unable to write a legible hand, but who made
                    $8000 out of the office, without himself making a single record. A
                    young high school graduate did all the official work of this officer at
                    $50 per month. The stress of our partisan campaigns often sweeps such
                    incompetents into office. Occasionally such a one is found even in the State
                    House. These things will continue to happen so long as we over-emphasize
                    national history and national civil government in our history teaching. Our
                    State history is entirely ignored in the schools. The name of our State is, I
                    think, mentioned once in our State text, and then in a footnote. Until quite
                    recently in all schools, and still in most schools, all the time devoted to
                    civil government was devoted to the national field. Political history, political
                    management, partisan politics, organization and conduct of national
                    parties—these are the topics that loom up large  in most recitations. The impression is left, if it
                    is not openly taught, that this is a government by parties, that parties are
                    necessary. So long as this phase of civil government is over-emphasized in
                    public schools and in most of the newspapers we may expect party regularity to
                    be a creed with most of us. Party regularity has a worse influence on local
                    government than the spoils system, its offspring.
            So long as science concerned itself with beautiful theories alone, such as the
                    nebular hypothesis, gravitation, the laws of planetary motion, evolution, and
                    the like, so long it remained a subject affected indeed by the cultured but
                    ignored by the common people; but as soon as science showed the farmer how to
                    kill potato bugs and mosquitoes, to raise $300 horses, and run
                    automobiles, the scientist came to be an important personage, in demand
                    everywhere. So far then as the history teacher is a teacher of civil government,
                    he must follow the example of the scientist if he wishes to make himself useful
                    to society.
            The place then, manifestly, for the civics teacher to attack the problem of civil
                    government is the first place he meets it; the method is the method of science,
                    the laboratory method. If he is in a city, the city government is the thing to
                    study first; if in a town, the town government; if in a district, the township
                    and county government. A little experience will convince him that the officers
                    of a city government know no more about the problems of city administration than
                    they do about the problems of the law or of medicine. The boundaries between
                    city, township, county, State, and national administration are not clearly
                    marked, and no attention is paid to them unless some one from partisan zeal
                    makes an encroachment, as in the metropolitan police law or the county or
                    township local option laws. These are then made a party issue, and we hear more
                    or less about local self-government and centralization. Even then it is so
                    interwoven with partisan politics that little is accomplished in the way of an
                    intelligent understanding. The civics teacher can take up these questions with
                    his classes, and by using the city government as his laboratory or object lesson
                    make considerable headway toward an intelligent understanding. The work of the
                    present State Board of Public Utilities will offer an excellent opportunity for
                    a study of State interference in city government. A like study can be made of
                    the police and State courts, of the State's attorney, of the township
                    trustee in his relation to the city in his 
                    township, of the county government in relation to the city or cities in the
                    county.
            It should be observed here that any captious criticism of persons or policies by
                    a school teacher is entirely out of place and will not be tolerated by any
                    community. The laws, the officials, and the offices must be studied as the
                    honest expression of the people's best judgment. Confidence in our form
                    of government, in its essential justice, in its ability to solve finally all
                    problems that may confront it, is the necessary attitude of the public schools.
                    Anything else is incipient anarchy. This does not mean that the teacher is not
                    to point out other ways of doing things or to explain how they are done in other
                    places. Personal criticism, questioning of motives or honesty, are however to be
                    left to the newspaper, the pulpit, or the forum. The teacher must not make the
                    mistake of using the newspaper as a textbook. A newspaper that is worth anything
                    as a textbook would be worth nothing as a newspaper. The officer, the law, the
                    records, the courts, the council, the convention, the election, the
                    registration, the light, heat, and water plants, the street building, the
                    library, the picture show, the theater, the church,—all these forms
                    of social activity in their normal condition are operating in the immediate
                    neighborhood. Those in charge of each will be glad to have the sympathetic
                    teacher and class come on a visit. Teachers of geography, botany, geology,
                    physiology, agriculture, long ago laid aside their didactic texts for a guide
                    book or manual, and took their students direct to the objects they were
                    studying. The realities of civil government are always more available than those
                    of any of the branches above named. No one of them offers the opportunities for
                    study by observation that civil government does, and yet little advantage is
                    taken of this fact by the civics teacher.
            In hundreds of visits with classes ranging in numbers from three to two hundred I
                    have never met with other than courteous treatment. But by all means take the
                    children of the public schools to study the normal, healthy social activities,
                    not the abnormal or morbid forms. Those again are to be left to the newspaper
                    correspondent and social settlement worker. The township trustee, the mayor, the
                    judge, the prosecutor, the policeman, the county chairman, the auditor, the
                    editor, the preacher, if rightly invited—any of these will visit your
                    class room or welcome you on a visit to his place of business, and explain his
                    duties. Before a visit of this  kind, make
                    out a list of questions for the occasion, so that the purpose of the visit will
                    not be lost in the excitement of the occasion. Collect maps, and make others,
                    showing voting precincts, council-manic districts, water mains, sewers,
                    townships, commissioner's districts, road districts; locate factories,
                    saloons, churches; note the prices of real estate in the different parts of the
                    city, and discuss the reasons for the variations. Note the influence and
                    location of railways and street car lines.
            This means work; but remember that the scientist had to take off his coat and
                    finally come out in overalls before the people took him seriously.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS AND NOTES
            
               Political Parties in 
                            Oregon
                        , 1843-1868. By WALTER C. WOODWARD. Illustrated. 
                  Portland, Oregon
               . The J. K. Gill Co. 1913. Pp. xii, 277.
            Mr. Woodward, the author of this volume, is teaching in the Department, of
                    History and Political Science in Earlham College. He had his graduate historical
                    training in the University of 
                        California
                     under Professor H. Morse Stephens and Dr. E. I. McCormac. He was an
                    Oregonian, but he is now an Indianian, and the historical students of Indiana
                    welcome him heartily for the historical Work he has done and gives promise of
                    doing.
            In the early days of our national life it was readily recognized that the sources
                    of our nation's history were to be found chiefly in the States, in the
                    life of the several distinct political bodies that had united to form the Union.
                    Only by a knowledge of the men, deeds, and institutions of each local political
                    community could be understood the life and spirit of the whole. Students of our
                    national politics to-day are coming again to understand more and more fully the
                    value to our national history of good local studies in the political life of the
                    several States. Each State or section has its special interest, its special
                    influence on the life of all, and each makes its special contribution to the
                    story of our common growth. Qualified students of our history are devoting
                    themselves to special studies in State history and are thus presenting valuable
                    contributions to national history. As illustrations of this we may mention the
                    three extensive volumes recently published on the Political History
                        of the State of 
                            New York
                        , by Mr. De Alva S. Alexander, and the more recent Political History of the State of 
                            New York
                        , by Homer A. Stebbins. The history of State politics is
                    replete with subjects for monographic studies. Professor Woodward, of Earlham,
                    brings us one on the political history of 
                        Oregon
                     from the beginning of the final diplomatic struggle for the
                    possession of the 
                        Oregon
                     Country to the close of Reconstruction. He
                    relates the local story forcibly, connecting it up pertinently with our national
                    history. He discusses the principle and basis of local self-government; the
                    organization of the new Territory; its control under the Democratic regime; the
                    influence of the sectional discussions over slavery in con-  nection with the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     excitement and the other controversies preceding the Civil War; the
                    effect of the political change of 1860; and the issues of the Civil War and the
                    struggle for the Union. "Old Joe Lane," of Indiana, the first
                    Territorial Governor of 
                        Oregon
                    , was a prominent character in this story. Lane became a pronounced
                    pro-slavery man in active sympathy with aggressive Southern leaders who were
                    urging on the extension of slavery. The general reader will be surprised to
                    learn, as he may from Mr. Woodward's pages, that the Federal official
                    class were exerting their whole influence in favor of the introduction of
                    slavery into 
                        Oregon
                    , in the days of James Buchanan. Lane, elected to the Unites States
                    Senate upon the admission of 
                        Oregon
                     into the Union, was aiding and abetting these efforts, and it was
                    this record that led to Lane's nomination for the Vice-Presidency on
                    the Southern Democratic ticket with Breckinridge in 1860. Lane was popular in 
                        Oregon
                     and the Breckinridge-Lane electors came within less than 300 votes
                    of carrying the State against Lincoln. Lane was an avowed Secessionist. He
                    commended the South for its disunion policy and he hoped that 
                        Oregon
                     would leave a Union that denied "equality and
                    protection" to the States, and help to set up a "Pacific
                    Republic." This policy ended Lane's popularity in 
                        Oregon
                     as the majority there were for the Union and against slavery, and
                    the "Copperhead" speeches of Lane could not turn the tide.
                    Union Democrats and Republicans combined in 1861 to place Col. Edward D. Baker,
                    another prominent national character from 
                        Oregon
                    , in the 
                        United States
                     Senate to counteract the influence of Lane, and 
                        Oregon
                     became a pronounced Union State
            Professor Woodward presents many other interesting connections between 
                        Oregon
                     and national politics in his valuable book. The volume will bring
                    him credit and, as has been intimated, it will serve well to illustrate the rich
                    field that is open to students of our national politics. Many good subjects
                    corresponding to this worthy work on 
                        Oregon
                     politics and many inviting periods are awaiting the willing and
                    capable workers in Indiana history. The field will be entered more and more in
                    the near future. Young men and women in our college and university historical
                    seminaries are turning their attention in this direction for new themes for
                    their doctoral dissertations. It will be found to be a profitable field and the
                    result will be the production of much good material, which will prove of value
                    to the future historian of the State as well as of the country at large
            J. A. WOODBURN
            
         
         
         
            
               History of 
                            Cass County
                        , Indiana, from its Earliest Settlement to the Present
                    Time. Edited by DR. JEHU Z. POWELL, President of the 
                        Cass County
                     Historical Society. In two volumes. (
                        Chicago
                    : The Lewis Publishing Company. 1913. Pp. 1207.)
            The author of a county history in the Middle West has a pretty strong initial
                    prejudice against him to overcome. So much work of this kind has been done, and
                    is being done now, for purely commercial purposes, that one who does valuable
                    and serious work in this field is likely not to be appreciated. In this
                    money-making era it is hardly believable that a sane man would deliberately
                    devote valuable time to preserving local history. Nevertheless there are a few
                    of that kind of rare souls left. When we get tired running each other down with
                    our trains and automobiles we will turn with gratefulness to the men who have
                    preserved our early history for us.
            Dr. Powell was fortunate in having a county history to write which is so full of
                    interest as is that of Cass. He was fortunate again in having the great
                    collections of Lasselle and Biddle to draw on. There are few counties that have
                    their historical source materials so well preserved as is the
                    case with 
                        Cass county
                    . The men of Cass have not kept their lights under a bushel. Four of
                    her citizens were 
                        United States
                     Senators at various times; three sat in the national House of
                    Representatives; eight colonels in the Civil War came from homes in 
                        Cass county
                    ; and at least ten State officers have been chosen from within her
                    boundaries. The greatest of our state historians, a score of editors of State
                    reputation (one of them the pioneer of Northern Indiana), to say nothing of
                    thirty or more writers of more or less fame—all these have made 
                        Cass county
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     an important place in State history. Dr. Powell has given us the
                    local history of these men, and has thus done a valuable service for State and
                    national history.
            The grandfather of the author was one of the early settlers of 
                        Cass county
                    , moving there from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The author is a graduate of the University of 
                        Michigan
                    . Having been a resident of the county since his birth, in 1848, Dr.
                    Powell has been able to give us a plentiful supply of the traditions that have
                    been handed down from the early days. Among these are many from French and
                    Indian times, together with others from canal days, the Underground Railroad,
                    and Civil War times. One feels that more attention should have been paid to the 
                        Wabash
                     commerce, so graphically set forth in the old Canal
                        Telegraph, Pottawattomie Times,
                     the early Pharos, and the
                        Journal. One also misses the "news" of
                    the "Treaty Grounds,"—the fierce political feuds
                    between Tipton, the Ewings, and Lasselle, and later betwen Bringhurst, Fitch,
                    and the Civil War politicians. However, these topics concern State and National
                    history, and perhaps the author has done wisely in leaving them out
            The second volume is devoted entirely to biographies. Accounts of all the
                    churches, cemeteries, schools, newspapers, lists of county and city officers,
                    lists of professional men, are given in connection with these. A good index
                    makes the contents of the volumes accessible. The volumes carry very little
                    surplus material; but discussions of mound builders and kindred topics add
                    little to a county history except avoirdupois. In honorable distinction from
                    some county histories recently published, the one under consideration does not
                    duplicate or copy former histories of the county. The illustrations are
                    appropriate, and add materially to the value of the work. A fairly good
                    bibliography is given, and the author's sources are usually indicated.
            LOGAN ESAREY
            
         
         
            
               The Mennonitcs of America. By C. HENRY
                        SMITH, Ph.D. Illustrated. (Scottdale, Pa.: Mennonite
                    Publishing House Press. 1909. Pp. 484.)
            Dr. Smith traces the history of the Mennonites from their origin in Europe down
                    to the present time. With reference to their origin it is enough to recall that
                    they are descended from the Anabaptists who arose in Europe during the early
                    part of the sixteenth century, and that the name Mennonite is derived from Menno
                    Simons (1492-1559), a notable leader of one branch of the Anabaptists. The
                    author says in his preface that he has attempted "to cover the entire
                    field of American Mennonite history and tried to place every event of importance
                    in its proper perspective." The eighteen chapters of the book cover
                    every phase of the church's history, and show that the author has done
                    a great amount of research work.
            The first Mennonites came to America from Holland and 
                        Germany
                     in 1683, and settled at 
                  Germantown, Pennsylvania
               . The one hundred and twenty who came over
                    were "mostly mechanics and linen weavers ‘and not much given
                    to agriculture. ’" The second Mennonite colony was
                    established at Pequea, 
                  Lancaster
                        county, Pennsylvania
               , in 1710, about sixty miles, out of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Smaller communities were gradually established in the State, and
                    by  1800 Mennonite settlements were found in 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     also.
            The Mennonites gradually split into many different branches. Even after recent
                    concerted efforts to unite various branches, the author states that there are
                    thirteen different organizations to-day which should be classed as Mennonites.
                    Probably the most important of the branches, with the exception of the
                    "Old Mennonites," is the Amish branch. This derives its name
                    from Jacob Amman, a Mennonite preacher of 
                        Switzerland
                    , who began preaching about 1700. He advocated the most conservative
                    principles, and among other conservative customs required among his followers
                    the use of hooks and eyes instead of buttons on the clothes of men. The Amish
                    began to come to America in the first part of the eighteenth century. They
                    settled first in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the largest settlement being in 
                        Lancaster county
                    . In this locality is still the most important Amish community,
                    having in 1900 an estimated membership of about eleven hundred persons. There
                    are also prosperous Amish communities in Indiana, in 
                  Lagrange, Elkhart
               , Noble, 
                  Newton, Jasper
               ,
                    Howard, 
                        Miami
                    , Allen, 
                        Daviess
                    , and 
                        Brown counties
                    . Their combined membership in Indiana is about six hundred. Amish
                    communities exist also in 
                  Ohio, Illinois, Iowa, New
                            York, Missouri, Nebraska
               , and 
                        Kansas
                    .
            During the Revolutionary War the Mennonites were generally opposed to the war,
                    not because they favored 
                        England
                    , but because they were opposed to all war on religious grounds. For
                    the same reason they came into conflict with the government in the War of 1812,
                    and in the Mexican and Civil Wars. Their whole career in America has shown that
                    they care very little for politics in any form, and as a result, in those
                    communities where they predominate, it is very seldom that any member of the
                    church holds a public office. As the author says, they take "little
                    interest in government and the affairs of the outside world."
            The chapter on "Principles, Customs, and Culture" is one of the
                    most interesting in the book. The author says that the Mennonites, "in
                    faith, in doctrine, in religious practice, and in the social spirit, differ
                    little from their ancestors,"—the Anabaptists of 1600. Their
                    doctrines embrace "non-resistance, non-swearing of oaths,
                    non-participation in civil government, rejection of infant baptism, and
                    seclusion from the world." They stand for complete separation of state
                    and church, and universal peace. Among their religious customs  we find feet-washing, wearing of some kind of head
                    covering by women during church service, bonnets for women at all times, and
                    collarless coats for men. They insist on all clothing being
                    "exceedingly plain and modest," and this fact leads those of
                    one branch to use the expression "turned plain," as meaning to
                    join church. However, there are many members now who have adopted more modern
                    forms of dress
            Until recently the Menrionite church has been opposed to higher learning, but
                    educated leaders began to see that the church would play an insignificant role
                    in the religious world if this opposition should be maintained. Their first
                    school for higher learning was a theological seminary established at
                            
                  Wadsworth, Ohio
               , in 1868; but this
                    institution died within ten years from lack of patronage. The second attempt was
                    made at Halstead, 
                        Kansas
                    , in 1882. This school was moved to Newton, 
                        Kansas
                    , in 1893, and its name changed to Bethel College. In 1907 it had
                    ten instructors and 121 students. Two other schools of higher learning have been
                    established since then. 
                        Goshen
                     College (Indiana) was started in 1902, and in 1908 had twelve
                    instructors and 306 students. In 1909 another school was started at Hesston, 
                        Kansas
                    , which has made a prosperous beginning.
            In a chapter on "Literature and Hymnology" Dr. Smith states
                    that most of the literature of the church has been produced in Europe.
                    Practically all the literature of the members of the church has been of a
                    religious character. All the early hymnals were without written music. Later
                    books used notes, and a typical Mennon-ite hymn, words and music, is given by
                    the author on pages 438-439.
            In the final chapter the author attempts to classify the various branches of the
                    church in America, with their approximate membership. He lists thirteen separate
                    branches with a total membership of 68,435. In conclusion the author says:
                    "The Mennonites of all classes are still almost entirely a rural
                    people. Very few congregations are found in the cities." "The
                    two questions of most vital importance to the future of the church are its
                    relation to the unification movement, and to the question of a more liberal
                    education for its young people."
            The author gives a tabulated bibliography of two hundred and twenty-four volumes.
                    The best collection of Mennonite literature is in the private library of John F.
                    Funk, of 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana. The  files of the Herald of Truth, of 
                        Elkhart
                    , the official church paper, furnished the author with much valuable
                    material.
            This book is a distinct contribution to the history of our country, in that it
                    gives a most interesting view of a religious people about whom usually very
                    little is known. The Mennonites were pioneers in settling many parts of the 
                        United States
                    , and their history should be of interest to the student of general
                    American history, as well as to those engaged in the study of localities in
                    which adherents of this faith reside
            E. V. SHOCKLEY.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Gibson County
                         in the Civil War. Colonel Gil R. Stormont has set a good
                    example in publishing his address, 
                  
                            Gibson County
                         in the War, delivered at the dedication of the 
                        Gibson County
                     soldiers' monument at 
                        Princeton
                    , November 12, 1912. This monument stands in the courthouse square
                    at 
                        Princeton
                     and is one of the most beautiful in the State. The first company
                    that enlisted from the county became Company H of the Seventeenth Regiment. 
                        Gibson County
                     also contributed men to the Twenty-fourth, under Colonel Hovey at
                    Vin-cennes; to the Fourteenth, under Colonel Kimball at 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; and to the Twenty-fifth, under Colonel Veach at 
                        Evansville
                    . Companies were also enlisted from the men of Gibson which joined
                    the Thirty-third, the Forty-second, the Fifty-eighth, organized in 
                        Princeton
                    ; the Sixty-fifth, also organized at 
                        Princeton
                    ; the Eightieth, the One Hundred and Twentieth, the One Hundred and
                    Thirty-sixth and the One Hundred and Forty-third. One realizes the terrible
                    sacrifice of the war when he learns that over twenty companies of the best men
                    of the county enlisted. There were none drafted. The county paid in bounties
                    $104,014, and to the soldiers' families $20,227.
                    The pamphlet also contains pictures and accounts of the monument to Company F of
                    the Forty-second Regiment at 
                        Oakland City
                    , and the monument to the Fifty-eighth at 
                        Princeton
                    . Full page plates of the 
                        Gibson County
                     monument and of Colonel Stormont are included.
            VALLONIA, the first county seat of 
                        Jackson county
                    , celebrated its centennial August 13-14. The French made the first
                    settlement in the county at 
                        Vallonia
                    , but the first permanent settlements were made by men who came from
                    the Ohio River Falls at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . There is a tradition that one of Aaron Burr's
                    co-conspirators, Aquilla Rogers, built a cabin in 
                        Vallonia
                     in 1807. At least there is  an
                    old cabin still standing in the village known as the "Aaron Burr
                    Cabin." 
                        Vallonia
                     had a blockhouse during the War of 1812, and the county saw
                    considerable righting with the Indians. 
                        Vallonia
                     was the county seat for about a year, the court being changed to
                    Brownstown in November, 1816.
            THE Centennial Celebration of 
                        New Albany
                     will be held during the week beginning October 12. One hundred
                    years previous to that date Joel and Nathaniel Scribner landed at the site of
                    the present town and later laid off the town. They purchased the land of John
                    Paul, who had entered it at the land office at 
                        Vincennes
                    . It is said that Paul decided to leave the place on account of a
                    dense fog which hung over the place when he landed, and which he thought was
                    caused by the Falls of the Ohio river nearby. Paul went on
                    up the river and founded 
                        Madison
                    . The first town lots in 
                        New Albany
                     were sold at public auction on the first Tuesday and Wednesday of
                    November, 1813. A part of the receipts, amounting to $5,000, was set
                    aside for schools. This was the origin of Scribner High School. In: the period
                    from 1848 to 1860 
                        New Albany
                     was the commercial metropolis of Indiana. It was incorporated as a
                    town in 1814 and as a city in 1839. P. M. Dorsey was its first mayor. The city
                    has furnished a number of men of State and National fame, among whom Governor A.
                    P. Willard and Speaker M. C. Kerr are most prominent. 
                        New Albany
                     is entitled to a worthy celebration, which no doubt it will have,
                    if we may judge by the men in charge of the movement.
            CENTENNIAL Anniversaries, it may be noted, will be in order in
                    a number of towns of southern Indiana within the next two or three years. Rising
                    Sun, 
                        Ohio county
                    , was settled in 1814 by A. C Pepper, S. Hathaway, Hugh Espey and a
                    few others. 
                  Carlisle, Sullivan county
               , was laid out in 1814
                    by James Sproul. 
                  Vernon, Jennings county
               , was started in 1815
                    by John Vawter. 
                  Vevay, Switzerland county
               , was laid out in
                    1815 by three brothers, J. J., J. F., and Daniel Dufour. Evansville was first
                    settled in 1816 by Hugh McGary, and was named after General Robert M. Evans, one
                    of the original proprietors. 
                  Brownsville, Union
                    county
               , was laid out in 1816 by James Conway, John Smith,
                    and Elijah Holland. 
                  Richmond,
                            Wayne county
               , was settled by
                    Jeremiah Cox and John Smith in 1816. Brownstown, 
                        Jackson county
                    , was laid out in 1816, William Williams, John Milroy, and John
                    Ketcham being among its first  settlers 
                        Terre Haute
                     was laid out in 1816 by a company called "The 
                        Terre Haute
                     Company." This company consisted of Cuth-bert and Thomas
                    Bullitt, of 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               ; Abraham Mar-kle,
                    of Fort Harrison; Hyacinth Lasselle, of 
                        Vincennes
                    ; and Jonathan Lindley, of 
                        Orange county
                    , Indiana. Their articles of organization bear the date of September
                    19, 1816.
            A number of towns in Indiana have already had centennial celebrations and they
                    have proved to be very interesting occasions. These celebrations do much toward
                    arousing an interest in local history. It would be an excellent idea to have the
                    best qualified person in each community compile a history of the town. The
                    Indiana Historical Survey will be glad to co-operate with the local authorities
                    in planning the preparation of such local histories.
            THE celebration of the centennial anniversary of the admission
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     to the Union, which will come in 1918, is already well under way.
                    The commission having the project in charge announced its plans August 28. These
                    include, as do the plans for Indiana, a memorial building for the records of the
                    State. Senator Keller heads the committee having the building project in charge.
                    Another part of the celebration is the erection of statues of Lincoln and
                    Douglas at 
                        Springfield
                    . A third part of the work will be the preparation of a history of
                    the State, setting forth in detail its economic, political, and sociological
                    development. This work will be done by a commission of scholars from the
                    universities and colleges of the State. Dr. G. L. Smith, author of a school
                    history of 
                        Illinois
                    , is chairman of this committee. A basis for such a history has been
                    laid in the admirable series of documentary collections published in recent
                    years by the 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Society, the 
                        Illinois State
                     Library, and the University of 
                        Illinois
                    . Besides the foregoing enterprises the celebration will include
                    many elaborate spectacular events, such as games, parades, pageants and
                    receptions. The committee, legislature, and citizens are very enthusiastic. It
                    is hoped that Indiana may catch the inspiration of this movement, and carry to
                    completion the plans outlined for the celebration of its centennial in 1916.
            DR. ARTHUR H. WOODWORTH,
                    of Easton, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , has succeeded Professor A. M. Hadley in the chair of history and
                    political science at 
                        Hanover
                     College. Professor Woodworth received his A. B. degree from 
                        Lafayette
                     College in 1904, his A. M. from 
                        Chicago
                    
                     University in 1912, and has completed his
                    work for the Ph.D. degree at 
                        Chicago
                    , where he has held a fellowship for the last two years. He has had
                    experience in both college and high school teaching.
            PROFESSOR LEONARD succeeds Charles A.
                    Tuttle as professor of Political Economy at 
                        Wabash
                     College. Professor Tuttle leaves after a continuous service of
                    twenty years to accept a similar position at Wesleyan University,
                            
                  Middletown, Connecticut
               . He spent this
                    summer teaching at Indiana University. Professor Leonard is a graduate of Yale
                    University, where he taught for some time. More recently he has been teaching at 
                        Ohio
                     Wesleyan, 
                  Delaware, Ohio
               .
            PROFESSOR EU.WOOD W.
                        KEMP, Professor of History in the Indiana State Normal
                    School for more than twenty-five years, is on leave of absence till June 30,
                    1914. During Mr. Kemp's absence Mr. W. O. Lynch, Assistant Professor of
                    History in the same institution for the past few years, will serve as head of
                    the department of American History. Mr. Charles Roll has been chosen to fill the
                    position made vacant by the promotion of Professor Lynch. Both Mr. Lynch and Mr.
                    Roll are graduates of Indiana University; each holds a master's degree
                    from 
                        Wisconsin
                     University; and each has clone further graduate work—Mr.
                    Lynch at 
                        Harvard
                    , and Mr. Roll at 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            PROFESSOR AMOS S. HERSHEY, of Indiana University, now on a year's leave of absence,
                    has been attending the International Peace Congress at The Hague, and on
                    September 29th he attended the notable dedication of the Peace Palace in that
                    city. During the ensuing weeks he, will attend the sessions of the International
                    Parliamentary Union. Professor Hershey has attained prominence among publicists
                    in the field of international law and diplomacy. He will spend some time in the
                    Orient before returning to America. An interesting article on "The
                    Peace Palace at The Hague" appears from Professor Hershey's
                    pen in the Independent for September 18, 1913.
            ERNEST M. LINTON, a graduate of 
                        Butler
                     College, sometime a Fellow in Political Science in Indiana
                    University, will be Instructor in Political Science at Indiana during the
                    absence of Professor Hershey. Mr. Linton acted as mentor and guide to a party
                    traveling in Europe during the past summer. He is an experienced and successful
                    conductor for parties "doing" Europe in a brief season
            
            THE NEW YORK NATION gives the following worthy recognition to the work of
                    the 
                        Iowa State
                     Historical Society, which offers an example which Indiana might
                    well emulate:
            "There is one State in the Union, at least, that has so organized its
                    activities in historical research as to promote the greatest industry in
                    publication; and that State is 
                        Iowa
                    . Under the general super-intendency of Prof. Benjamin F. Shambaugh,
                    the State Historical Society turns off volume after volume, series after series,
                    in the greatest profusion; and the most amazing fact is that a relatively high
                    standard is maintained. The two latest volumes are intended to supply the need
                    of the Legislature of the State with facts for their guidance in future
                    legislation. The Society is developing into a kind of historical reference
                    bureau. Mr. John E. Brindley, in his History of Road Legislation in 
                            Iowa
                        , treats his subject chronologically, from the time when
                    plank roads were popular down to the present-day movement for good roads. The
                    second volume is the History of Work Accident Indemnity in 
                            Iowa
                        , by E. H. Downey. This is a general treatise on the law
                    and economics of the subject and is well done. As is the case with all the
                    volumes from the 
                        Iowa
                     Historical Society, the printing and binding are excellent. Each
                    volume has an analytical index; but the arrangement of the notes and references
                    at the end of the volume is most inconvenient for the reader, and should be
                    abandoned in future publications."
            IT IS interesting to note that twenty-four members of the
                    present Congress—five Senators and nineteen
                    Representatives—were born in Indiana. Adding to this number Vice
                    President Marshall, who is a Hoosier by birth, Indiana has twenty-five of her
                    native sons in the National law-making body. The following 
                        United States
                     Senators were born in Indiana: John D. Works, 
                        California
                    , born in 
                        Ohio county
                    , March 29, 1847; William H. Thompson, 
                        Kansas
                    , born at Craw fords ville, October 14, 1871; Moses E. Clapp, 
                        Minnesota
                    , born at 
                        Delphi
                    , May 21, 1851; Benjamin F. Shively, Indiana, born in 
                        St. Joseph county
                    , March 20, 1857; John W. Kern, Indiana, born in 
                        Howard county
                    , December 20, 1849. The following Representatives were born in
                    Indiana: William E. Humphrey, Washington, born at 
                        Alamo
                    , March 31, 1862; W. W. Bailey, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , born in 
                        Hendricks county
                    , January 8, 1855; Dick T. Morgan, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , born in 
                        Vigo county
                    , December 6, 1853; Daniel V. Stephens, 
                        Nebraska
                    , born in 
                        Bloomington
                    , November 4, 1868; Burton L. French, 
                        Idaho
                    , born at 
                        Delphi
                    , August 1, 1875; Frank Buchanan, 
                    
                        Illinois
                    , born in 
                        Jefferson county
                    , June 18, 1862; Joseph W. Ford-ney, 
                        Michigan
                    , born in 
                        Blackford county
                    , November 5, 1853; W. A. Cullop, Indiana, born in 
                        Knox county
                    , March 28, 1853; W. E. Cox, Indiana, born in 
                        Dubois county
                    , September 6, 1865; Lincoln Dixon, Indiana, born at 
                        Vernon
                    , February 9, 1860; Ralph W. Moss, Indiana, born at Center Point,
                    April 21, 1862; Finley H. Gray, Indiana, born in 
                        Fayette county
                    , July 24, 1864; Charles A. Korbly, Indiana, born in 
                        Madison county
                    , March 24, 1871; J. A. M. Adair, Indiana, born in 
                        Jay county
                    , December 22, 1863; Martin A. Morrison, Indiana, born at 
                        Frankfort
                    , April 15, 1862; John B. Peterson, Indiana, born in 
                        Lake county
                    , July 4, 1851; George B. Rauch, Indiana, born in 
                        Huntington county
                    , February 22, 1876; Henry A. Barnhart, Indiana, born at Twelve
                    Mile, September 11, 1858.
            Vice-President Thomas R. Marshall was born at 
                        North Manchester
                    , Indiana, March 14, 1854. Two of Indiana's Congressmen are
                    not native sons. Cyrus Cline was born in 
                  Richmond county, Ohio
               , and John Lieb was born in 
                  Flehingen, Germany
               .
            THERE are one hundred and forty-five public libraries in
                    Indiana at the present time and yet there are ten counties in which there is no
                    public library at all. The biennial report of the Public Library Commission
                    shows the following counties without libraries: 
                        Brown
                    , Crawford, Dubois, 
                  Jennings, Ohio.
                            Pike
               , Scott, Starke. 
                        Switzerland
                    , and 
                        Warren
                    . The Report says that more than 1,000,000 persons in Indiana are
                    without access to libraries. It is hoped that the branch libraries provided for
                    by the new law will soon overcome this condition. Fifty-three towns and cities
                    already having libraries have arranged to co-operate in providing service for
                    the whole county in which each is situated.
            THE postage rates of the present time were not enjoyed by the
                    men who made the first Constitution of Indiana in 1816. The Vin-cennes Western Sun of May 11, 1816, gives the postal rates which went
                    into effect May 1, 1816. They were as follows: Up to 30 miles, 6 cents; 30 to 80
                    miles, 10 cents; 80 to 150 miles, 12^ cents; 150 to 400 miles, 18}4 cents; 400
                    miles and above, 25 cents. These rates were for single sheet letters.
                    "Double letters," that is, letters of two sheets, were double
                    the above schedule; "triple letters" or letters of three
                    sheets, cost three times the above rates; while "packets," or
                    letters of four or more sheets, cost four times as much.
            
            HON. JOSEPH GILBERT,
                    whose death occurred recently on his farm near 
                        Terre Haute
                    , had preserved a valuable collection of newspapers and other
                    documents of historical value. These papers were generously donated by his heirs
                    to the Indiana State Normal Library, the Fairbanks Memorial Library of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and the Indiana University Library. Files of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, the 
                  
                            Prairie
                         Farmer (
                        Chicago
                    ), and the Indiana Farmer (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) went to the State Normal Library. Files of the local papers,
                    except the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Gazette, went to the Fairbanks Memorial Library. The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Daily Gazette was given to the Indiana University Library.
                    Some idea of the amount of material in the whole collection may be gained from
                    the fact that the file of the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Daily Gazette, when boxed, weighed over a ton. The files of
                    these papers run back to the Civil War time. The gifts make a very fitting
                    memorial to Mr. Gilbert, and are the outcome of an awakening appreciation of
                    local history which promises well for the future.
            A VALUABLE gift of books and papers from the library of Dr. T.
                    A. Wylie was presented to Indiana University Library by the heirs. Dr. Wylie was
                    professor of Natural Philosophy in the University for nearly a half century. His
                    widow recently died at a very advanced age. Her one hundredth birthday was
                    celebrated last year. She came to 
                        Bloomington
                     a bride in 1837 and had lived here continuously until her death
                    last June. The books and papers in question constitute an important source of
                    ‘historical and biographical information relating to Indiana.
            THE article in this number by Superintendent W. C. Gerichs is
                    one of a series of. papers on the political history of Indiana prepared by
                    research students in the historical seminary of Indiana University. A number of
                    these will appear from time to time in the pages of this magazine.
            SOME memoirs of the Polke family of Indiana, written about
                    1886 by the late Elder James Polke, of 
                        Knox county
                    , are in the hands of the editor and will appear in the next number.
                    A tabular genealogy of the Polke family in Indiana, and its connections, is
                    being worked out and will accompany the paper. Aside from its historical
                    interest, it is believed that the paper will be found to possess considerable
                    genealogical importance.
         
      
   
