
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 62, Issue 3, pages 175-275. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:62+issue:3+year:1966&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Hoosier Justice: The Journal of David McDonald, 1864–1868
            
                    Edited by Donald O. Dewey
                    ∗
                
            David McDonald of 
                  Indianapolis, United States
                judge for the District of Indiana from 1864 to 1869,
                    has been well described as a Hoosier Pepys. Aside from the diaries which he kept, he wrote an
                    exhortatory autobiographical essay for his son, penned a number of autobiographical letters,
                    and—crowning glory—even made an address "as from the coffin"
                    to guide the lives of those at his graveside.1
            
            Portions of McDonald's "little black book," the small travel diary which
                    he kept when he was separated from the ledger-type book in which he ordinarily recorded his daily
                    activities, were printed in the Indiana Magazine of History in 1931.2 They tell, primarily, of his visits to 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. The diary entries which follow are of more interest to Indiana historians, for
                    they relate the day-to-day activities of an active participant and penetrating observer of the
                    Indiana courts and bar during the last year of the Civil War and the first three years of
                    Reconstruction.
            McDonald gives incautious—sometimes explosive—descriptions of the men of
                    importance in Indiana politics and jurisprudence in his day. Furthermore, he gives an interesting
                    account of the life of an Indiana lawyer in the midnineteenth century. The practice of law brought
                    many satisfactions; but it also involved much unrewarding drudgery, such as traveling to distant
                    courts for trials which were postponed and lodging four-to-a-room at inns with other lawyers and
                    clients. While he took tea with many of his legal foes, he was in danger of being forced to exchange
                    shots 
                  
                     ∗ Donald O. Dewey is associate professor of history at 
                                California
                             State College at 
                                Los Angeles
                            . A research grant from the 
                                Los Angeles
                             State College Foundation aided in preparation of the manuscript.
                  
                     1 The McDonald writings mentioned here may be found in the Indiana
                            Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The library also holds some other McDonald materials, part in manuscript and
                            part in transcript.
                  
                     2 See Flora McDonald Ketcham, "David McDonald," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (September, 1932), 180–87,
                            and "Diaries of Judge David McDonald," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXVIII (December, 1932), 282–306.
               
                     with others. Finally, McDonald's comments are of
                    particular importance because of his role as a constitutional interpreter. Indiana was an alleged
                    hotbed of pro-Southern influence, so the district court was deeply involved with civil liberties
                    cases concerning the Copperheads. It was his court, for instance, which called upon the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court to render the great decision Ex parte Milligan, surely
                    the most important constitutional opinion to come out of the Civil War.
            David McDonald was born near Millersburgh, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1803, the eighth of twelve children. In 1817 the family moved to a farm near 
                        Washington
                    , in 
                        Daviess
                     County, Indiana. In 1829, after several years as a "new light
                    preacher" and a schoolmaster, he was urged by a 
                        Washington
                     lawyer to study law. The next year he began his own practice, earning $250
                    in fees for the entire year.
            In 1833 he was elected to the Indiana legislature but found "It was time very uselessly
                    spent; and I never wanted to go back to the Legislature. Besides I ran a great risk of contracting
                    vicious habits. Debauchery of every kind prevailed among the members."3
                    He was prosecuting attorney for the Tenth Judicial Circuit from 1834 to 1837 and was circuit judge
                    for the next fourteen years.
            Though lacking a college education, he was professor of law at Indiana University through the
                    1840's. Despite McDonald's protest he was given an honorary doctorate when he
                    retired. He practiced law in 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1853 until 1864, when he was appointed 
                        United States
                     district judge, "the most fortunate occurrence" in his life. In 1857
                    he was elected president of Asbury University at 
                        Greencastle
                    , but he declined because he was not an orthodox Methodist.
            Most of the legal cases which McDonald mentions prior to his appointment to the federal bench were in
                    the Indiana circuit courts, the principal forum for state questions. These fifteen courts had
                    excessively wide jurisdiction, so each drew outstanding counsel from throughout the state. Under the
                    Constitution of 1851 the state judges—at the justice of the peace, circuit, and supreme
                    court levels—were all elective rather than appointive. This accounts in part for the
                    contempt which McDonald expresses for some who were far 
                  
                     3 This quotation and the other biographical material included about
                            McDonald may be found in his "Autobiography," a copy of which is held by
                            Mrs. Mary-Lois Denny, Pasadena, 
                                California
                            . Another copy of the autobiography is located in the Indiana Historical Society
                            Library.
               
                     more adept at gathering votes than expounding the law. A
                    federal judgeship was much more desirable than a state position because the federal judge was
                    virtually assured of tenure for life, and he could instruct the juries rather than being dictated to
                    by them as were the elective judges on the state circuits.4
            
            From the beginning of the federal judiciary there was a hazy line between the jurisdictions of the 
                        United States
                     district and circuit courts. It was intended that the district courts should handle
                    federal cases where punishment would be by fines not exceeding one hundred dollars or prison terms
                    of not more than six months, while the circuit courts should hear more serious cases and appeals
                    from the district courts. In Indiana, however, as in many states prior to 1869, federal cases might
                    be initiated in either court. There was no separate panel of judges for the Seventh Circuit, so at
                    circuit court time Judge McDonald, as district judge, sat with Justice David Davis of the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, whose regular circuit-riding duties included an annual visit to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .5
            
            The journal from which the following extracts are taken begins with the year 1864 and continues
                    almost daily until September 30, 1868. Many pages at the end were cut out, and occasional bits of
                    writing at the book's spine demonstrate that Judge McDonald had continued this diary beyond
                    that date. There may have been enough pages to take him near his death on August 25, 1869. With only
                    two exceptions the diary accounts for every day of its four-and-a-half years. The extracts presented
                    here give most of McDonald's comments on legal matters and on national and state political
                    affairs, omitting many family and personal comments. Most of the items omitted, aside from trivial
                    phrases such as "Did nothing today worth recording," are comments on his own
                    misery from a spinal disease, on the ill-health of his family, and on his own religious struggles.
                    McDonald was a Methodist socially, but a Unitarian philosophically, so nearly every Sunday he seemed
                    to devote to speculation either about leaving the Methodists or returning to them.
            
               
                  4 Leander J. Monks (ed.), Courts and Lawyers of Indiana
                        (3 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), I, 308–309, 312; II, 418, 517–21, 531–34.
               
                  5
                        Ibid.; Richard Peters (ed.), Public Statutes at Large of the 
                                United States
                             of America … (8 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1850), I, 76–79.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Journal of 1864.1
                        
                        [Jan.] 7. Thursd. This morning Judge C. B. Smith came to the 
                                        United States
                                     Court house in usual health to hold Court. He took a sudden coughing
                                    followed by vomiting blood, and died at 9 o clock P.M.2
                        
                        Monday, 11. I see that, before C. B. Smith is buried, there is a scramble for his
                                    place; and by the telegrams to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , it seems that I am named among the rest. I have authorized no one to
                                    place my name before the President; and I do not even know who has done it. But it
                                    is all in vain. I can not beg hard enough to get favors from Father Abraham. Out of
                                    10 or 12 applicants, he will appoint the man least fitted for the place, A. S.
                                    White, I think. Yet 
                                        Lincoln
                                     is a good man, and a good President.3
                        
                        
                           
                              1 The journal from which the following extracts are taken
                                        is the property of Mrs. Mary-Lois Denny of Pasadena, 
                                            California
                                        , a greatgranddaughter of McDonald. In editing the manuscript every
                                        effort has been made to reproduce faithfully the spelling, capitalization, and
                                        punctuation of the handwritten document. Incorrect spellings are indicated by a
                                            [sic] the first time they appear, and missing letters are
                                        supplied in brackets whenever McDonald seemed to have omitted them
                                        unintentionally. Since the author generally either hyphenated or divided the
                                        words "today" and "tomorrow," the editor has
                                        adhered to the latter practice in doubtful or marginal situations. Modern usage
                                        has been followed whenever it was impossible to distinguish between
                                        McDonald's capital and lower case "s." Superior
                                        letters have been brought down to the line. Flourishes and obviously
                                        unintentional repetitions have been omitted. Words which McDonald underlined
                                        have been reproduced in italics. In a few instances the author failed to place
                                        periods at the end of sentences. These have been added in brackets. Ellipses
                                        have been used to indicate deletions from the journal unless a break in the
                                        diary can be indicated instead by a jump in the date. If the deleted portion
                                        would have comprised approximately a paragraph or more, a line of ellipsis marks
                                        has been given. If part of a sentence is omitted, three marks are used. If one
                                        or more sentences, but less than a paragraph, are deleted, eight marks are
                                        given. Important but comparatively unknown individuals whose names appear in
                                        this journal have been identified in footnotes. In other instances full names or
                                        initials have been added in brackets whenever possible the first time the name
                                        appears. The spacing of the original journal has been somewhat modified and
                                        standardized.
                           
                              2 Caleb Blood Smith (1808–1864) came to Indiana
                                        in 1832 and very quickly became active in state politics. He served in the 
                                            United States
                                         House of Representatives, 1843–1849. Smith was 
                                            Lincoln
                                        's secretary of interior until December, 1862, when he
                                        resigned to become 
                                            United States
                                         district judge for Indiana. National Cyclopedia of
                                            American Biography, Being a History of the 
                                                United States
                                            
                               … (47 vols., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1898–1965), II, 88.
                           
                              3 Albert S. White (1803–1864) had been a 
                                            United States
                                         representative, 1837–1839 and 1861–1863, and
                                        senator, 1839–1845. Biographical Directory of the
                                            American Congress, 1774–1961 (
                                            Washington
                                        , D.C., 1961), 1801. The phrases, "I think. Yet 
                                            Lincoln
                                         is a good man, and a good President," were added, probably
                                        years later, by McDonald with
                        
                        
                        Tues. 12. To-day was the funeral of C. B. Smith. I attended it. There was a large
                                    crowd—many who hated him when living. [Fernandez C.] Holliday D. D.
                                    officiated, in a pretty funeral sermon. It seems Smith was once a Methodist. It was
                                    in his purer days. Poor fellow. He is buried in pomp by the Masons. …
                        Wed. 13. I am at work on briefs in my office. These Briefs are written (often
                                    printed) arguments in causes in the Supreme Court, often taking a week or two. I get
                                    more poorly paid for them than any sort of work I do. I have been nearly all this
                                    Winter at this kind of business.
                        Thurs. 14. …
                        Just as I expected. Albert S. White is appointed District Judge. O, tempora! O,
                                    mores! This is the work of those 3 men, 
                                        Lincoln
                                    , Lane, & Usher. The first, an honest man—the second,
                                    a shallow ingrate—the third, a coward and a knave.4
                                    It seems hard that we can no more have a Judge before whom legal learning and decent
                                    behavior are of any avail. White I have known 
                              a different pen and ink. It is likely that he was embarrassed by his
                                            attack on the, by then, martyred Republican. The attack doubtless stemmed
                                            from McDonald's fruitless appeal for the office in 1862, when it
                                            was granted instead to Smith. At least 
                                                Lincoln
                                            's famous funny bone must have been tickled by this
                                            audacious letter from McDonald: "I desire to be appointed 
                                                United States
                                             District Judge to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of
                                            Judge Huntington. A gentleman professing to know, lately told me that no one
                                            could get an office from you without personally seeing you. I do not believe
                                            it. I cannot suppose you so weak as to favor the most boisterous beggar. I
                                            shall, therefore not annoy you with my presence. Indeed, my patriotism has
                                            not let me either to besiege the house of the President at 
                                                Springfield
                                             or to lay wait for you at the White House. This omission will
                                            not I hope, operate unfavorably to my present application. None of those
                                            who, like houseflies have followed you for the last two years withersoever
                                            you went, have felt more regard for you than I have,—nor can I
                                            see that because you have already given distinguished place to one or two
                                            citizens of Indiana, you ought therefore to favor them a second time. I was
                                            a Henry Clay Whig as long as whiggery lasted. When it died I went to the
                                            Republicans as the best thing I could do. You may remember that I rode sixty
                                            miles from a court where I met you to vote for Henry Clay. I have never
                                            committed the sin of democracy giving all my efforts to my profession. I
                                            have not been much of a politician and while I concede that politicians
                                            ought to be preferred in politics, I claim for those who have followed the
                                            law only a like preference in judicial office. I am too modest to mention my
                                            attainments in the law and top proud to plead poverty. I hope you will
                                            appoint the best man. But if you fail to appoint me, I shall be sorry both
                                            on your account and on my own." Flora McDonald Ketcham,
                                            "David McDonald," Indiana Magazine of
                                            History, XXVIII (September, 1932), 183–84.
                              
                                 4 "What times! What morals!" Cicero,
                                                In Catilinam 1. 1. 2. At first McDonald used a noun
                                            other than "man" to describe 
                                                Lincoln
                                            , but he carefully covered it over. The
                                            "ingrate" was Senator Henry Smith Lane and the
                                            "knave" was Secretary of Interior John Palmer
                                        Usher.
                           
                                     31 years. He never was much of a lawyer. He has
                                    given the law no attention for many years. He has for more than 20 years devoted
                                    himself to politics and railroads—the latter much the more honorable of
                                    the two. And now he suddenly becomes our legal oracle.
                        Sat. 16. Engaged as usual in my office. Sometimes I think it is too bad that a man of
                                    my age should have to toil so constantly. I think no lawyer in town is so
                                    unremitting in legal labor as I. Even now I am in the office, in mid winter soon
                                    after sunrise. I make fires at home, and then at the office every day. Yet others
                                    grow rich; I remain poor. Well, I will not repine. It may be best for me. Let me act
                                    the man bravely. I will get rest in the grave. I ought rather to thank God for a
                                    sound mind in a sound body.
                        Mon. 18 to Sun. 24. I have spent almost the entire week in preparing printed
                                    arguments for the Supreme Court.
                        Monday, 25. This morning, I started to 
                                        Danville
                                     to try the case of Ebenezer Sharpe v. Joseph D. Pattison, T. T. N.
                                    Pattison, McReynolds, and Geo. Hibbin.5 The day was fine. We
                                    arrived about 12 M[eridian] and stopped at Darnel's tavern—4 in
                                    a room, viz. Myself, E. Sharpe, Thos. H. Sharpe, & W[illiam] P. Fishback.6 Fishback & I are for Sharpe. We consider the case a
                                    doubtful one. The amount in controversy $8000 to $9000.
                        I wrote my will before I started.
                        
                           
                              5 With a few exceptions the cases to which McDonald refers
                                        have not been identified, even those he considered
                                        "celebrated." For further information concerning cases tried
                                        before the Indiana Supreme Court see Indiana, Report of Cases
                                            Argued and Determined in the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State of
                                            Indiana … (244 vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1830-). No published description of cases tried in the lower
                                        courts has been found.
                           
                              6 The career of William P. Fishback
                                        (1831–1901), a prominent 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         lawyer, spans almost half a century of Indiana history. At various
                                        times in his career he served as prosecuting attorney (presumably for 
                                            Marion
                                         County), clerk and master of chancery of the 
                                            United States
                                         district court, and commandant of a colored regiment during the
                                        Civil War. He was also director, dean, and faculty member of the Indiana Law
                                        School, organized in 1893. Fishback at one time was law partner in a firm which
                                        included Albert G. Porter and son, Benjamin Harrison, and Cyrus C. Hines.
                                        Leander J. Monks (ed.), Courts and Lawyers of Indiana (3
                                        vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1916), III, 1135; Charles W. Taylor, Biographical
                                            Sketches and Review of the Bench and Bar of Indiana … (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1895), 167, 246.
                        
                        
                        Tues. 26. Our cause was called, but a deposition was missed, and after sending to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for it, we commenced the trial at 4 P. M.—Jo. E.
                                        McDonald,7 [Leander M.] 
                                        Campbell
                                    , Sixton [Leonidas Sexton?] for the defendents [sic].
                        Wed. 27. Our trial is in progress, and we closed the evidence about 9 P. M. The case
                                    seems to hang in an even balance.
                        Thurs. 28. We argued the case all day. At night the jury rendered a verdict for us
                                    for $8502.30. This was a glorious triumph; all things considered, it was
                                    one of the most gratifying victories I ever had. The Sharpe's are in
                                    extacies [sic]. They extol my speech as great and good. When I
                                    come to charge a fee of $500, I hope they will think no less of me.
                        Fri. [Feb.] 5. Tis raw, gloomy weather. My business is now in Court daily.
                        Mond. 8 to Sun. 14. I have spent this week in constant attendance at my office and in
                                    our Court of Common Pleas. Nothing in the round of business very interesting. No
                                    exciting trial—no stirring incident.
                        Wed. 24. In the Court House all day. A mob of Soldiers attacked the Sentinel office;
                                    but I believe no harm was done.8
                        
                        Fri. 26. This morning I & Mr. Porter9 went to 
                                        Danville
                                     to try the case of Hasselman & Vinton vs. Herman Kortepeter.
                                    But the trial could not be brought up to-day. So we stayed all night there.
                        
                           
                              7 Joseph Ewing McDonald (1819–1891) attended
                                        Asbury and 
                                            Wabash
                                         colleges in Indiana, was admitted to the bar in 1843, and practiced
                                        law in 
                                            Crawfordsville
                                        , 1847–1859. He served in the 
                                            United States
                                         House of Representatives, 1849–1851; was the Democratic
                                        candidate for governor of Indiana in 1864; and was 
                                            United States
                                         senator, 1875–1881. Biographical Directory
                                            of American Congress, 1294.
                           
                              8 Although the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Daily State Sentinel and the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Daily Journal reported several prior attacks on the Sentinel offices, a search in the newspapers for this item
                                        revealed no evidence of the incident to which McDonald refers.
                           
                              9 McDonald's partner, Albert G. Porter
                                        (1834–1897) had returned to private practice in 1863 after serving in
                                        the 
                                            United States
                                         House of Representatives, 1859–1863. Later he was
                                        comptroller of the treasury, 1878–1880; governor of Indiana,
                                        1881–1885; and minister to 
                                            Italy
                                        , 1889–1892. Biographical Directory of the
                                            American Congress, 1470.
                        
                        
                        Sat. 27. Finding our Kortepeter case laid over till Monday, we returned home this
                                    morning, and found all well.
                        Mon. 29—Porter & I returned to 
                                        Danville
                                     to-day to try the case of Hasselman & Vinton vs. Kortepeter. We
                                    entered on the trial, and got only partly through the evidence.
                        Tues. [March] 1. Finished the evidence in the Kortepeter case. It looks dangerous.
                                    Porter opened the argument to the Jury for Kortepeter, and then went home. 
                                        Campbell
                                     followed in a strong speech for the plaintiffs.
                        Wed. 2—This morning, Fishback argued the case on trial for the plaintiffs;
                                    and I closed the argument for the defendant. The Jury at 3 P. M. found a verdict for
                                    our client, Kortepeter. This was a glorious triumph in what I deem a just cause. I
                                    came home to night, and found all well.
                        Tuesday 8. At 6 this morning I wento [sic] 
                                        Franklin
                                     Circuit Court to look after the suits of Mrs. Forsyth vs. the debtors
                                    of her husband's estate, and List et al. v. Herman Kortepeter. Both cases
                                    were laid over till Thursday; and I returned home on the 11 o'clock (A. M.)
                                    train.
                        Thurs. 10 Mr. Porter & I went to 
                                        Franklin
                                     to try the case of List et al. v. Kortep[et]er whom we defend. We
                                    entered on the trial, which not being ended, we came home at night.
                        Fri. 11. Returned again to 
                                        Franklin
                                    ; ended the Kortepeter trial; and gained it. We gained it not so much by
                                    our own wisdom, as through the ignorance of [Robert L.] Walpole,10 the plaintiffs' lawyer, and the mistakes of the Judge.
                        Sat. 12 In my office to day. Got $367.50 cts for fees; and spent
                                    $126. of it. These war times I get a great deal of money, and spend a
                                    great deal.—"Come light, go light."
                        Mon. 21. 
                                        Marion
                                     Circuit Court begins to day. I attended the U.S. Court and argued the
                                    case of the U.S. vs. Wm. Saltmarsh.
                        
                           
                              10 For further description and identification of Walpole
                                        see entry for March 26, 1867.
                        
                        
                        Thurs. 24. At 11.40 I started to 
                                        Lebanon
                                     to try the case of Cynthia I. Adams v. The Layfayette [sic] & 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Railroad Company, for running the cars of the Co. over her so that a
                                    leg had to be amputated.
                        Fri. 25. Entered on the trial of Miss Adams' case before a jury, Judge [John
                                    M.] Cowan presiding. We got through the evidence. Porter & I are for the
                                    plaintiff, [Robert C.] Gregory & Dougherty [Lorenzo C. Daugherty] for
                                    defendant.
                        Sat, 26. To day we argued the case of Miss Adams, I making the closing speech. At 7.
                                    P. M. the verdict for plff. for $2,650. was rendered and judgment entered
                                    on it. At 7.40 P. M. we started home where we arrived after 9, P. M.
                        Fri. [April] 1. To day Mr. Porter, and a Lawyer 
                                        Campbell
                                     of 
                                        Danville
                                    , had a furious quarrel in our office, about certain motions and the
                                    filing of certain papers on the 4th of March in 
                                        Danville
                                     in the case of Hasselman & Vinton v. Kortepeter. As I was not
                                    there, I do not know how it was. But the quarrel went so far as that Porter drew a
                                    club and 
                                        Campbell
                                     a pistol. But it ended without a battery.
                        Mon. 4 to Sund. 10.—. …
                        Thurs. Fri. & Sat. [7, 8, 9] we spent on the trial in the Circuit Court of
                                    the case of Ed. Thomas vs. Robert Roe—a suit about land. [John L.]
                                    Ketcham, Walpole, & [Horatio C.] Newcomb for the
                                    plaintiff—McDonald & Porter for deft. On Thursday, it was
                                    suspected that Thomas, the plaintiff, had the small pox. He went to a doctor who, it
                                    seems, advised him that it was not small pox. He continued in Court till Friday
                                    evening, when it became certain he had the small pox; and he went home. Who may
                                    suffer for all this remains to be seen. I was vaccinated about 34 years ago. Whether
                                    this will protect me I know not.
                        The case went to the Jury Saturday 11 o'ck A. M.
                        Mon. 11. The Jury in the case of Thomas v. Roe hang, and at 2 o clock P. M. are
                                    discharged. They were nearly equally divided.
                        
                        Wed. Thurs. to Sat. 13, 14, 15, 16—. …
                        I have been reading the Diary from Mar. 4, 1861 to November 12, 1862, of Adam
                                    Gurowski, a Pole, concerning the present War.11 So censorious a
                                    book I never read. He is a naturalized citizen; warmly in favor of the North, and
                                    lavish in praise of the people. But he abuses 
                                        Lincoln
                                    , [William H.] Seward, [Winfield] Scott, [George] McClelland [sic], and the administration generally in every page. [Edwin]
                                    Stanton and Senator [Benjamin] Wade he praises. Almost every man besides he
                                    condemns. I fear he is too near the truth.
                        Mon. 25 &c. The former part of this week I spent in my usual avocations in
                                    the city—Circuit Court sitting and I in it daily. The constant trouble is
                                    that neither in our Circuit Court nor Common Pleas have we a Judge that can give us
                                    the clean law. Last term we had the celebrated boulder case before
                                    Judge [Fabius M.] Finch. He decided every thing against us, though we carried the
                                    case before a jury. He gave a new [?]. This week we managed to get Judge Perkins to
                                    try the case. He decided it in our favor so that the plaintiff got out of Court
                                    before he got to a jury. Perkins is by far the best Judge about here.12
                        
                        Tues. [May] 3. The U.S. Court sits to day. The owl, White, is alone on the bench.
                        Wed. 4 In the Federal Court to day. Judge Davis arrived and took his seat.13
                        
                        White charged the grand jury. Bah!
                        Sat. 7. …
                        This evening Judge Davis took tea with me. He seems a man of good sense. But I see no
                                    mark of legal learning or any other kind of learning in him. Respectable general
                                    learning and literature he certainly has not. Indeed there is no polish and no
                                    literature about him.
                        
                           
                              11 Adam Gurowski, Diary … (3
                                        vols., 
                                            Boston
                                        , 1862–1866).
                           
                              12 Samuel Elliott Perkins (1811–1879), a
                                        Democrat, had become a member of the state supreme court in 1845 and served
                                        until January, 1864. Despite their party differences Perkins and McDonald later
                                        cooperated in an attempt to establish a law school in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         (see entry for August 13,1866). For a description of Perkins as
                                        supreme court judge see Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Judge Perkins, the
                                        Indiana Supreme Court, and the Civil War," Indiana
                                            Magazine of History, LX (March, 1964), 79–96.
                        
                        
                        Sun. 8. This is my birth day. 61 years old! Near my grave. God prepare me for the
                                    change that so shortly awaits me! I desire to be thankful that I have lived so long;
                                    and that now I have a sound vigorous body, and, so far as I can judge, a mind
                                    unimpaired. I think that during the last year, I have made several abler speeches
                                    than I ever made before.
                        Wed. 11. The 
                                        Richmond
                                     war still excites all men. Nothing new to day, except that the approach
                                    towards 
                                        Richmond
                                     still goes on. Our Federal Court is sitting; but inter arma, silent
                                        leges.14. …
                        Thurs. 12. Our Federal Court is still sitting, and I daily have business in it; but
                                    the fighting in the neighborhood of 
                                        Richmond
                                     so excites me that I am unfit for any busines[s]. …
                        Tues. 17. To day, before the Supreme Judges, I again argued the eternal case of Judah
                                    vs. the 
                                        Vincennes
                                     University. Jo. E. McDonald opposed me. I have the case this time if
                                    the Court decide right.15. …
                        Wed. 18. I spent the day on Mrs Ann E. Underhill's business in sett [1] ing
                                    her will. Mr. Porter is gone to 
                                        Martinsville
                                    .
                        Fri. 20. … At night, Mrs. Underhill and the Misses Wood called at my house
                                    to settle their accounts. After long efforts, Mrs. Underhill got angry, whether at
                                    me or them I cant tell, and furiously flirted out of the house and went off. It was
                                    strange and offensive behavior. I hope she will repent.
                        
                           
                              13 David Davis (1815–1886) served on the 
                                            United States
                                         Supreme Court from 1862 to 1877 when he resigned to become a 
                                            United States
                                         senator. Until the Act of April 10, 1869, there was no statute
                                        authorizing the appointment of special circuit court judges. The duties of the
                                        circuit court bench were divided between judges of district court and justices
                                        of the Supreme Court. Davis was thus riding circuit. Despite McDonald's
                                        critical view of Davis (see entry for May 7, 1864), it was Davis who persuaded
                                        President Lincoln to make McDonald a district judge. Willard L. King, 
                                 
                                                Lincoln
                                            's Manager: David Davis (
                                            Cambridge
                                        , Mass., 1960), 224; Taylor, Bench and Bar, 9, 12.
                           
                              14 "Laws are inoperative in war."
                                        Cicero, Pro Milone 4. 11.
                           
                              15
                                        Judah vs. The Trustees of the 
                                                Vincennes
                                             University had first been argued before the Indiana
                                        supreme court on May 28, 1861. It was a suit by the university to recover the
                                        value of state bonds received by the attorney of the university but put to other
                                        purposes. 16 Indiana Reports 56 (1862).
                        
                        
                        Mon. 23. Supreme Court sits to-day, and I attend it. Here, as oft before, I have seen
                                    beggars riding on horse back, and princes, as beggars, walking barefoot.
                        Fri. 27. I spent nearly all this day with C. T. Cromwell of N. Y. investigating his
                                    claim against H. W. Ellsworth.16
                        
                        Sat. 28. This day a case of bribery of a Judge came to my knowledge, which astonished
                                    me. $100 buys justice! The worst feature in our government is that all
                                    departments are grown corrupt; The judiciary, the last citadel, is now betrayed into
                                    the hands of sinners.
                        Mon. [June] 6 to Sat. 11. I spent this week partly in our Court of Common Pleas, and
                                    partly in my office. Nothing important going on.
                        Thurs. [July] 7. Excessively hot to day. Porter is abroad. And I am extremely
                                    busy—pressed all day. I argued, in the forenoon, a tax question before
                                    the State Board of Equalization,17 gained it, and got
                                    $40. for it.
                        Tues. 12. This morning, I went to 
                                        Franklin
                                     to try Mrs. Forsyth's case. But it was laid over till to
                                    morrow. So I returned.
                        Wed. 13 Went again to 
                                        Franklin
                                     on Mrs. Forsyths business. Compromized the case, and came home in the
                                    evening.
                        Mon. [Aug.] 15. Still warm and dry. We now seem in great danger of civil war in
                                    Indiana. May God avert it!
                        
                           
                              16 Henry William Ellsworth (1814–1864) came to 
                                            Tippecanoe
                                         County, Indiana, in 1838. He practiced law in 
                                            Lafayette
                                         and became a member of a firm of general land agents specializing
                                        in 
                                            Wabash
                                         and Maumee lands. His Valley of the Upper 
                                                Wabash
                                            
                               … (1838), based on his father's
                                        papers, helped to stimulate interest in lands of northwestern Indiana. Ellsworth
                                        participated in the political struggles of his time and from 1845 to 1849 was
                                        charge d'affaires to 
                                            Sweden
                                         and 
                                            Norway
                                        . Dictionary of American Biography (10 vols., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1957–1959), III, 111.
                           
                              17 The duty of the State Board of Equalization, as
                                        established in 1852, was to equalize the appraisement of lands among the several
                                        Indiana congressional districts. For a detailed discussion of the board see
                                        William A. Rawles, Centralizing Tendencies in the Administration of
                                            Indiana (
                                            New York
                                        , 1903), 260–72.
                        
                        
                        Wed. 17. In my office all day too busy to go to dinner. At last, the weather is cool.
                                    The cloud of civil war that threatens the state grows darker. Arrests are talked of
                                    If they come I think war will follow.
                        Thurs. 18 Another fine rain. But while this relieves of one distress another
                                    threatens more and more. Civil war in Ind. Every day brings out some startling fact.
                                    Whither are we drifting?
                        Friday 19. Nothing new to day except that in a counsel of traitors last night of last
                                    week Jo McDonald dissuaded them from attacking this city on the 16th. So it is said.
                                    …
                        Sun. 21. …
                        This day the city is highly excited. There is danger of mob violence. The occasion is
                                    this: last Night some 4000 to 5000 pistols and curbines [sic]
                                    arrived here from N.Y. and were secretly stowed in Bob Walpoles house now occupied
                                    by H. H. Dodd. These were seized this morning. The opinion is that they were
                                    intended to be put in the hands of the rebel prisoners here that they might burn our
                                    city and murder our people. Whether this was the intent or not, it was no doubt
                                    traitorous. The crisis is approaching. 90 days will develope [sic]
                                    all things.18
                        
                        22 to 28—This week has passed "in the midst of alarms."
                                    Distressing rumors of the rising of the Coperheads [sic] in this
                                    state to oppose the war, are flying every day. It seems that what is called the
                                    Democracy seriously, desperately meditate a general uprising. What shall be the end
                                    can only be conjectured.
                        
                           
                              18 Harrison H. Dodd, an 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         printer and grand commander of the Indiana Sons of Liberty,
                                        apparently planned an uprising of this organization for August 16, 1864, to free
                                        rebel prisoners at Camp Morton and seize the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         arsenal. Leading Democratic politicians dissuaded Dodd from
                                        carrying out his plot, reports of which had already been leaked to Governor
                                        Morton through a government spy. August 16 passed without incident, but on
                                        August 20 military authorities seized guns and ammunition which had been shipped
                                        to Dodd's printing establishment. Included in the seizure were letters
                                        and additional information concerning the Sons of Liberty. Dodd was later
                                        arrested and tried by a military commission, but he escaped to 
                                            Canada
                                         before he could be convicted. Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War (Indiana Historical
                                            Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1949), 231–32, 242–49.
                        
                        
                        Sunday I spent at home. … At night, I called on General Hovey. He
                                    apprehends civil war in Indiana. I judge from his hints, that the policy of the
                                    government is to enforce the draft on the 5th Sept. and that if the Copperheads
                                    attempt to resist it forcibly, martial law will be declared, and they will catch all
                                    the leaders of the opposition, try them by a military court, and shoot them.19
                        
                        Mon. 29. …
                        And to day the "Democracy" assemble at 
                                        Chicago
                                     to nominate a candidate for President. Their doings deeply concern the
                                    nation. Every body says they will nominate General McClelland. And I am inclined to
                                    think his nom[in]ation would be less injurious to the nation than that of any other
                                    man they could put forward. May God rule this matter for the good of the country!
                        Wed. 31 To day the Copperheads at 
                                        Chicago
                                     nominated McClelland for President, and [George H.] Pendleton for vice
                                    president. If McClelland should be elected, I hope he may be true to the Union; and
                                    I think he will if not influenced by the traitors who will vote for him. But whether
                                    he be elected or not, and whatever he may do if elected, there can be no doubt that
                                    many—at least one third of the party who are running him—are
                                    as vile traitors as any in the South, and much more inexcusable than they. I write
                                    this down as my deliberate judgment, to be read by such of my descendants as may see
                                    this diary when I am dead. But the country is ruined any way; and it seems that it
                                    is but little difference who rules now.
                        Sat. [Sept.] 3. To day H. H. Dodd, the Leader of the secret, treasonable society of
                                    this state, was arrested in this city under the order of Genl. Hovey.
                        It is said that Judge White is at the point of death. I sincerely wish he may
                                    recover.
                        
                           
                              19 Major General Alvin Peterson Hovey
                                        (1821–1891) was judge of a circuit court of southern Indiana in 1850
                                        and in 1852 was elected to the supreme court. He served with distinction in the
                                        western theatre of the Civil War and from 1864–1865 was commander of
                                        the District of Indiana. Following the war Hovey was appointed minister to 
                                            Peru
                                        , 1865–1870, served in Congress, 1886–1888,
                                        and was governor of Indiana, 1888–1891. Dictionary of
                                            American Biography, V, 270–71.
                        
                        
                        Mon. 4 [5] to Sat. 10. Learning at 9 o clock Monday morning that Judge White was
                                    dead, I determined to try to get his place—judgeship for the U.S.
                                    District Court for this State. So at noon I started for 
                                        Washington
                                    . I got there on Wednesday—saw Mr. Lincoln—laid my
                                    papers and claims before him—roamed about the city two or three
                                    days—and came home, arriving safely Sunday morning at 10 o'clock
                                    and finding all well. Of course, I can not know; but I think I shall get this
                                    Judgeship in a month or two. I do not see how 
                                        Lincoln
                                     can refuse it.20
                        
                        Mon. 12 to Sat. 17. … I found that reports against my loyalty were
                                    circulated about me by Alfred Harrison, J. P. Usher and such like men, to defeat my
                                    application for the judgeship.
                        Tues. 20. … I had a talk to day with Alfred Harrison. He denies
                                    propagating that slander. But in his prevarication, he contradicts and convicts
                                    himself. O, Alfred Harrison! I know you now.21
                        
                        Wed. 21. We received this morning a telegram to come immediately to 
                                        Lebanon
                                     to try the case of Williamson v. The 
                                        Lafayette
                                     & Inds. R.R. Co. Mr. Porter & I hurried to the cars,
                                    and arrived at 
                                        Lebanon
                                     about noon. Afternoon we entered on the trial. Late at night we
                                    compromized the case at $1500 for our client, Williamson.
                        Fri. 23. This is a day of interest here. To-day the draft in this township for 471
                                    men is held.
                        I met Judge Perkins on the street this evening and the following colloq[u]y ensued:
                        Perkins. What is the prospect of your getting that Judgeship?
                        I. It is pretty good. But they say I am going to vote for you for Supreme Judge, and
                                    that may beat me.
                        
                           
                              20 Extracts from the separate journal kept by McDonald on
                                        this trip to 
                                            Washington
                                        , D.C., are printed in Ketcham, "David McDonald,"
                                        184–85, and in "Diaries of Judge David McDonald,"
                                            Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (December, 1932),
                                        299–301.
                           
                              21 Alfred Harrison, a Republican lawyer from 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , was treasurer of the Indiana Sanitary Commission during the Civil
                                        War. Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                                            Indiana (8 vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1865–1869), I, 324.
                        
                        
                        Perkins. You never told me you would vote for me. Who says you are?
                        I. Mr. Alfred Harrison has raised the report.
                        Perkins. The old rascal! Why he has told me more than ten times that he himself would vote for me.
                        Sat. 24. In my office all day. As to the Judgeship, the plot thickens. By a letter
                                    from Judge Davis, I learn that he and Judge [Noah H.] Swayne are determined to have
                                    me appointed if they possibly can. I dont think I shall fail, unles[s] 
                                        Lincoln
                                     disregard all public sentiment.
                        Mon. 26 to Frid. 30. …
                        The trial of H. H. Dodd before a Military Commission is in progress here. The
                                    disclosures in this case make the "Sons of Liberty" a most
                                    treasonable association.
                        I spent Mon. Tues. & Wedn. in my office. On Wednesday evening I start with
                                    Judge [John] Green to 
                                        Tipton
                                     to make a stump speech. Gov. [Richard] Yates of Ill. had promised to
                                    speak there on Thursday, and being likely to disappoint the people, J[ohn] W. Ray
                                    and I went to fill his place. …
                        Thursday was a rainy day. However, there were more people to hear us than could get
                                    into the Court house. I spoke to them on secession, the war &c. better than
                                    I thought I could. J. W. Ray followed me in a very good speech. I think we
                                    satis[fied] the people. We went home the same evening. …
                        Tues. [Oct.] 11. This is election day for all state and County officers and members
                                    of Congress. The day is clear, fine, lovely—The Sun of Austerlitz shines.
                                    The election passes peaceably. But on the Union side, it is melancholy to think how
                                    much fraudulent voting there clearly is. It is barefaced too. I abhor the doing evil
                                    that good may result. But the times are perilous; and all political parties are
                                    corrupt, rotten. Will not these men who get elected to-day by corruption and fraud,
                                    be corrupt and fraudulent in office? Cant they be bribed?22
                        
                        
                           
                              22 For a discussion of looseness of voting laws and
                                        fraudulent voting in Indiana see Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in
                                            the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (The History of
                                            Indiana, Vol. III; 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1965), 39–41, 76–77, 241, 250,
                                        266–68, 312.
                        
                        
                        Wed. 12. Indiana has elected her Union ticket. The Butternuts are badly defeated.
                                    Perkins is no more. Babylon is fallen!23
                        
                        To-day Judge Taney died. Long ago he disgraced himself by his mean, corrupt
                                    subserviency to General Jackson's illegal proceedings against the U.S.
                                    Bank. That subserviency made him Chief Justice of the Us. [sic]
                                    Supreme Court. There by his Dred Scott decision, he "damned himself to
                                    everlasting fame". In the estimation of all good and wise men, shame will
                                    forever roll its burning fires over his memory; and such a consummation is justly
                                    his due.24
                        
                        Tues. 18 Went to 
                                        Franklin
                                     to Court of Com. Pleas. Geo. A. Buskirk on the Bench! …
                        Mon. 24. In court. Tried and gained the case of Pattison ats. Jones.
                        Thurs. 27. In Court nearly all day; but did very little. I learn that John Carlisle,
                                    who a few days ago, in my office, charged my clients, Selden, Woodruff, &
                                    Payne with "swindling", and whom I, in reply, called a liar and
                                    ordered out of my office, threatens vengeance on me. It is bad that so old a man as
                                    I should have a quarrel of such a kind with such a fellow. But I hope to survive it.
                                    What is my duty in such a case?
                        Frid. 28. Yesterday and to-day, I have taken employment in two ugly cases. 4
                                    Kentuckians who are charged with forcibly robbing a post office, a
                                    capital crime, engage me to defend them—Another rebel Kentuckian, a
                                    brother-in-law of Judge Brackenridge [sic] of 
                                        St. Louis
                                    , is under arrest as a spy, employs me to defend him. This, too, is a
                                    capital crime; and both the cases are bad looking.25
                        
                        
                           
                              23 The term "butternut" as used during
                                        the American Civil War referred to a soldier or partisan of the southern
                                        states—so called from the brown homespun clothes of the Confederate
                                        soldiers. McDonald uses the word in a derogatory manner to refer to all
                                        Democrats.
                           
                              24 Roger B. Taney on the bench is acidly described by
                                        McDonald in his travel journal. "Diaries of Judge David
                                        McDonald," 284–86, 303.
                           
                              25 Samuel Miller Breckinridge (1828–1891) had
                                        been called "judge" since serving for one term as a circuit
                                        court judge in 1859. His brother-in-law, Confederate Captain John B. Castleman,
                                        had led an expedition against 
                                            United States
                                         prisons in the Northwest. Joseph A. Mudd, "The Cabell
                                        Descendants in 
                                            Missouri
                                        ," 
                                 
                                                Missouri
                                             Historical Review, IX (January, 1915), 85,
                                        89–90.
                        
                        
                        Sat. 29. To-day I am engaged in trying the case of Myars vs. Cones et ux. before a
                                    jury in our Common Pleas. The evidence was closed, and it is to be argued on Monday.
                        Sun. 30. …
                        This evening, Mr. Porter and I went to Camp Morton and had an interview with
                                    Castleman, the traitor, whom Judge Breckenridge, last week employed us to defend. He
                                    is a young man, and avows himself a rank rebel. He has been a Capt. in the rebel
                                    army. He is a traitor and deserves to be hung. I doubt, however, whether he is
                                    guilty of the crime with which he is charged—that of being a spy. He
                                    talks about honor. O chivalry! What I mean to get from him is money. Unless that comes freely he gets no defense from me.
                        Mon. 31. Argued the case of Myars v. Cone, and gained it. The rest of the day I spent
                                    in the Courts. …
                        Tues. [Nov.] 1. To day we have three courts grinding—the Common Pleas, the
                                    State Circuit Court, and the U.S. Circuit Court. And I am nearly run to death
                                    between them. Judge Davis being sick, Judge Swayne sits in his place.
                        Thurs. 3 We begin to-day the trial of the important case of the Central Gravel Road
                                    Company vs. Traub—We for Traub, [Lucien] Barbo[u]r, [Livingston] Howland
                                    and [John S.?] Duncan for plff.
                        Fri. 4 Ended the evidence in the Traub case.
                        Sat. 5. This morning I argued the Traub case. Duncan spent the rest of the day in the
                                    most foolish of arguments. He unites eminently the blackguard and the blatherskite.
                        Sun. 13. …
                        On the next 30 days turns the course of life—whether I am to be District
                                    Judge or not.
                        Mon. 21. To day engaged on an injunction case for Geo. Hardin [George C. Harding?]
                                    before Chs. A. Ray.
                        Tues. 22 Judge Swayne opens our U.S. Circuit Court this morning. He held Court 2
                                    hours, and then adjourned it over till the 20th Dec. Who will hold it then?
                        
                        Wed. 23. In my office nearly all day. [Senator Thomas A.] Hendricks came there to
                                    talk about the District Judge-ship. It is strange that always when I have sought
                                    office, Democrats have helped me more than my own party. I do not now know a
                                    Democrat of any consequence in the State that does not wish to see me get this
                                    office. This is not because I am inclined to their political faith, but because they
                                    believe I would treat them fairly in Court. I confess I am proud to believe that all
                                    parties agree that I would make a just, competent Judge.
                        Sat. 26. In my office all this day.
                        For 4 or 5 months past, it has been the understanding by express agreement with Judge
                                    Selden, that Mr. Porter should go to 
                                        Washington
                                     next month to argue before the U.S. Supreme Court, the case of Sheets
                                    vs. Selden et al. To-day Mr. P. intimates that he will not go.—it will
                                    cost him $200., he says, to clothe himself so as to go decently. I hoped
                                    he would go on my account, in regard to my application for the District Judgeship.
                                    Alf. Harrison and his myrmidons will be there, to urge Mr. Howland's
                                    wretched claims; but there is not in this wide world a man—not even Mr.
                                    Porter, my law-partner—who will take that trouble for me. Well, it is a
                                    consolation to think that I never knew a man less dependent on any mortal than I am
                                    for all I am or have been or hope to be. But the want of a little sympathy, a little
                                    help may loose [sic] me this judgeship. I keenly feel it.
                        Sun. 27. …
                        After noon I went to see T. A. Hendricks to get his opinion on the necessity of my
                                    going to 
                                        Washington
                                    . He thinks I should go. I suppose I will. Yet I am much discouraged. I
                                    fear a combination of those bad men, Harrison, [Postmaster A. H.] Conner, [Governor
                                    Oliver P.] Morton, [Marshal David G.] Rose & others will defeat me.
                        Thurs. Dec. 1. In my office all day. Tis cloudy and gloomy—well figuring
                                    the condition of my mind.
                        At 8.20 P.M. I start for 
                                        Washington
                                    , principally to look after the District Judgeship, and partly to argue
                                    the case of Sheets vs. Doc d. Seldon [sic] et al. in the U.S.  Sup. Court. As to the Judgeship, I will get it
                                    if political combinations do not sway Presdt. 
                                        Lincoln
                                    . I am inclined to think these will sway him, and I shall fail.
                        God take care of my children while I am gone.
                        N.B. The peri[o]d from Dec. 1 to Dec. 14 was passed in my journey to and from 
                                        Washington
                                     and in my stay there. The incidents are recorded in my little black
                                    book which I carried with me, and are therefore not repeated here.26
                        
                        Thurs. 15. This day with me begins a new era. I am never again to practice law. Warm
                                    congratulations flow in on me from all quarters. To day I took possession in the TJ.
                                    S[.] States Judges rooms in the P. O. building.27 Every thing
                                    nice here—an Irish man to make fires—nice
                                    carpets—rich furniture—Elegant stationary [sic]—all free of expense to me—and all this for life.
                                    This is the consummation so long wished by me. It is more than I hoped. It is like
                                    some of the fond creations in the Arabian Nights' Entertainment. So it
                                    probably was two years ago with Caleb B. Smith—So perhaps it was a year
                                    ago with Albert S. White. So it may be with me soon. Therefore I must take care not
                                    to be puffed up nor proud, nor forget that I, too, am mortal. But I must be humble
                                    and thankful, and give all the praise and the glory to the Good Being to whom I owe
                                    all things. And I must see that I perform my official duties diligently, wisely and
                                    faithfully; and that no man receive injustice at my hand. God help me thus to do!
                        Frid. 16. In my new office all day preparing for my work on the Bench next week.
                        
                           
                              26 In 
                                            Washington
                                         before the 
                                            United States
                                         Supreme Court McDonald argued William Sheets vs. The
                                            Lessee of Henry R. Selden et. al., a case involving a lease for water
                                        power. 2 Wallace 177–91 (1864). Portions of his "little
                                        black book" are published in Ketcham, "David
                                        McDonald," 185–86, and in "Diaries of Judge David
                                        McDonald," 303–305.
                           
                              27 McDonald's office was in the Post Office or
                                        Government Building located on the southeast corner of 
                                            Pennsylvania
                                         and Market streets. The building was erected 1857–1860
                                        and housed the post office, federal courts, and the offices of the 
                                            United States
                                         collector, assessor, district attorney, marshal, and judges and
                                        clerk of the 
                                            United States
                                         courts. According to a contemporary historian its cost was
                                        $165,000; its features conformed to the Grecian style of
                                        architecture; its principal materials were stone and iron; and it was fireproof.
                                        R. Holloway, 
                                 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            : A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the 
                                                Railroad City
                                            
                               … (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1870), 291.
                        
                        
                        Sat. 17. Working away in my new position all day. This evening I received my
                                    commission as U.S. Judge, and was sworn into office. So ends my old condition; so
                                    begins my new.
                        Tuesday 20. The U.S. Circuit Court begins here to-day. I alone presiding. Little
                                    done. At 3 o clock P.M. I charged the grand Jury.
                        Frid. 23. In Court to day. Two jury trials, but no verdict[.]
                        Tues. 27 to Sat. 31. I held Court all this time. Tried a few criminal
                                    cases—Sentenced John Tucker to the penitentiary for ten years for robbing
                                    mails, and another five years for passing counterfeit
                                    "greenbacks."…
                        Thus, I come to the close of the year 1864. A varied, checkered year to me. During
                                    it, I have had the extremes of distress and of joy. At first sickness, sorrow, and
                                    almost death to some of my children—then trembling anxiety about being
                                    appointed U.S. Judge—then seeing all my children in health and with a
                                    little better prospect of worldly prosperity than before—then in the last
                                    month of the year, the crowning joy of my appointment as U.S. District Judge. Thus,
                                    sorrow may continue for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. To God be all the
                                    praise!
                        Jan. 1865
                        Sun. 1. I am very happy and thankful this day. I praise God that I have lived to see
                                    it. The prospect before me is brighter than ever before. I have an honorable office
                                    for life, with a fair salary, and little to do. And I am in a condition to do better
                                    by my children than ever before.28 To God be all the praise!
                        Mon. 2. To-day the mob keep as New-years day. I was in my office in the forenoon.
                                    After noon we held Court, and put a man named Fisher on trial for counterfeiting.
                        
                           
                              28 See entries for April 22 and 28, 1865.
                        
                        
                        The old Judges of the Supreme Court went out of office on last Saturday. The new
                                    Judges asked them to adjourn the Court over till some day this week, in order that
                                    the new Court might organize and plan their business. But Perkins, Hanna &
                                    Co., true to their instincts, adjourned till Court in course—4th Monday
                                    of May—the last piece of meanness that those men, as Judges, will ever
                                    commit. Thank God the State is clear of that swarm of green flies.29
                        
                        Tues. 3. I spent the whole day on the trial of Fisher and did not end it. It will
                                    take most of tomorrow.
                        I am daily beset with applications for the clerkships which are supposed soon to
                                    become vacant. As yet I promise nobody any thing.
                        Mon. 9 to Sat. 14. This has been a pleasant week.
                        I spent all this week in Court trying criminal causes; and I got through all
                                    pleasantly and to my own satisfaction. I am happy.
                        Mon. 23 to Thurs. 26. I spent these days in holding Court. Fine Winter weather still.
                        This week I have been alarmed to learn that a bill is pending in Congress to abolish
                                    U.S. District Courts. The effect of this, it seems, would be to put me out of an
                                    office which I was sure I held for life! I do not think the bill can pass. But it
                                    possibly may.30 It is enough to remind me, at all events, that I
                                    do not hold an absolute life estate in this office, as I had fondly supposed.
                        How vain are all things here below! How false, and yet how fair!31
                        
                        
                           
                              29 Samuel E. Perkins, Andrew Davison, James M. Hanna, and
                                        James L. Worden were replaced by Charles A. Ray, Jehu T. Elliott, James S.
                                        Frazer, and Robert S. Gregory due to an overwhelming Republican victory
                                        throughout Indiana in October, 1864. The four Republicans all served until 1871.
                                        Perkins had been on the Indiana supreme court since 1846. Davison was elected in
                                        1853, and Worden and Elliott were elected in 1858. Taylor, Bench
                                            and Bar, 46–49.
                           
                              30 The subject of McDonald's concern is not
                                        mentioned in the Congressional Globe. A bill was introduced in
                                        February to revise the judicial system, which McDonald may have learned of in
                                        advance. Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 2 Sess., 915; see also
                                        815, 838.
                           
                              31 From Methodist Hymn entitled "Vanity of Early
                                        Enjoyments" by Isaac Watts. The editor is grateful to his colleague,
                                        Dr. Paul Zall, for locating the source of these lines.
                        
                        
                        Fri. 27. This day our U.S. Circuit and District Courts adjourned.
                        Sat. 28. I am now free—nothing to do officially till May. This is a
                                    condition in which I have not found myself for many years. I thank God. …
                        Mon. 30-Tues. 31. …
                        I have no fear now of Congress abolishing the District Courts; and I am therefore
                                    again at ease.
                        Wed. Feb. 1. …
                        To day I have been reading the introductory chapters to Bishop's great work
                                    on crimes.32 I deem it one of the finest chapter[s] in any law
                                    book ever read by me. I like such philosophy as is found in this chapter. Law is a
                                    science, and this writer treats it in the happiest style of scientific disquisition.
                                    It is strange to find such an introduction to criminal law. How the body of the book
                                    may read, I am yet to learn.
                        Mon. 6 to Sat. 11. …
                        This week our Legislature has been debating the proposed amendment of the U.S.
                                    Constitution abolishing slavery. I suppose it will pass next week.33
                        
                        Thurs. 23. I am beset by Mr. [James?] Blake who seeks the Post Office, and by Genl.
                                    G[eorge] K. Steele who wishes to be U.S. Marshal. Very bad men now hold these
                                    offices. Yet it is dangerous for me to interfere. Well I do just what I think is
                                    right, and trust in 
                                        Providence
                                     to protect me.
                        Tues. [March] 14. …
                        It appears that when on the 4th of March Andrew Johnson was sworn in as Vice
                                    President, he was so drunk as not to know what he was about. He disgraced himself
                                    and the nation in the eyes of the world. He now swears to tetotalism [sic]. I hope he will stick to it. But ought he not to resign as the only
                                    proper atonement for so great a crime?34
                        
                        
                           
                              32 Joel Prentis Bishop, Commentaries on the
                                            Criminal Law (
                                            Boston
                                        , 1856).
                           
                              33 The Thirteenth Amendment was ratified by the Indiana
                                        legislature on February 13, 1865. Indiana, House Journal,
                                        1865, 396–97.
                           
                              34 In this and succeeding entries McDonald speaks harshly
                                        of Johnson. For corroborating and opposing views see George Fort 
                                            Milton
                                        , The Age of Hate: Andrew Johnson and the Radicals (
                                            New York
                                        , 1930); Eric L. McKitrick, Andrew Johnson and
                                            Reconstruction (
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1960); and Claude G. Bowers, The Tragic Era: The
                                            Revolution after 
                                                Lincoln
                                            
                               (
                                            Cambridge
                                        , Mass., 1929).
                        
                        
                        Wed. 22. Windy and rainy. It appears that in [William T.] Sherman's march
                                    through 
                                        South Carolina
                                    , no respect was paid to private property. Houses were burnt every
                                    where. Personal property was destroyed. Even the capital, 
                                        Columbia
                                    , was fired by our men, and was laid in ashes. So says a Special
                                    correspondent of the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Gazette of this day. How can we answer to the civilized world for these
                                    outrageous infractions of the laws of war? I fear it will be hereafter a great
                                    national stain.
                        Mon. 27. to Fri. 31. …
                        The progress of the war is favorable in all things. … But how we can in
                                    the future be justified in destroying so much private property as Sherman's
                                    army has destroyed in Ga. & S. C. I do not understand.
                        Fri. [April] 7. To-day I received my first instalment [sic] of
                                    salary—$724.
                        Sun. 9. …
                        O how I need genial company—some sensible person to talk
                                    with—one who thinks, and thinks like me.
                        Mon. 10. At midnight, last night, the bells of the city were rung, canons [sic] fired, bonfires blazed, and the city was in an uproar. The
                                    rumor, undoubtedly true, is that Lee and his army have surrendered to Grant.
                        To-day at 12.40, I start for 
                                        Chicago
                                     to meet Judge Davis in consultation about the appointment of a Clerk of
                                    our Court, and about other things. My ticket to 
                                        Chicago
                                     cost $7.85.
                        Tues. 11. …
                        I stopped at the Tremont house, and after breakfast went to the U.S. Court room where
                                    I found Judge Davis and [District] Judge [Thomas] Drummond holding Court. At their
                                    request, I took a Seat with them.
                        Sat. 15. This morning we are astounded with thunder. Last night about 10
                                    o'clock the wise, the good, the just, the merciful, the generous, the
                                    patriotic Abraham Lincoln was assassinated. He died this morning at about 7
                                    o'clock—Prodigous [sic], enormous,
                                    unutterable, unheard of crime!
                        
                        
                                    Hung be the heavens in black! Yeild [sic] day to night!
                                    Comets, importing change of times and states,
                                    Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky;
                                    And with them scourge the bad revolting stars,
                                    That have consented unto 
                                            Lincoln
                                        's death!35
                           
                                
                        Damned—eternally damned—be the assassin! Doubly damned be the
                                    instigators to the crime. May the infernal gods sweep them all to hell in hurricanes
                                    of fire!
                        At the same time another assassin attempted the life of Secretary Seward, who, thank
                                    God! is not yet dead, and may survive.
                        At noon to-day a vast crowd assembled at the State house square. Such passion, such
                                    sorrow, such indignation, I never saw before. Hand bills were posted expressing
                                    "Death to all traitors." Every man seemed full of fury. Speeches
                                    to the crowd were made by Governor Morton and others. All over the city public and
                                    private houses were draped in mourning. Stores and shops were closed. All business
                                    was suspended. And a dreadful gloom and portentous fury marked every face. A
                                    thousand rumours were flying. Men seemed stupified with mingled surprise, sorrow,
                                    and rage. What wonder? Since Christ was crucified so diabolical an act has not been
                                    committed on earth. Since the world began, so many people simultaneously, earnestly,
                                    and deeply, never mourned over the death of one man.
                        If Washington was good and great, Lincoln was equally so. If Washington was inspired
                                    by a pure and lofty patriotism, he was not superior to 
                                        Lincoln
                                     in noble love of country. If Washington was the father of his country,
                                    Lincoln was its savior.
                        My brother! my friend! my benefactor! joy follow thee to the abodes of the blessed!
                                    Heaven place thee among the benefactors of mankind—among the heroes who
                                    have preceded thee to the realms of bliss—a fit companion of Socrates and
                                    Cicero, of Romulous [sic] and Aurelius, of Alfred, and Sidney, and
                                    Raleigh, of 
                                        Washington
                                    , and 
                                        Hamilton
                                    , and 
                                        Franklin
                                    , of Adams, and 
                              
                                 35 William Shakespeare, King Henry VI,
                                                Part 1, Act I, Scene 1.
                           
                                     Webster, and 
                                        Clay
                                    !—Long as the golden harvest shall wave on the broad plains
                                    of thy own 
                                        Illinois
                                    , long as the father of rivers shall roll his weight of waters to the
                                    sea, long as virtue and patriotism shall dwell among men, thy name will wake the
                                    sigh of the lovers of liberty, and thy virtues will still keep thy memory green in
                                    their souls.
                        Sun. 16. …
                        At 3.30 P. M. a vast congre[g]ation assembled at Wesley Chapel to hear addresses on
                                    the occasion of the death of the late President Lincoln. Myself, Governor [Joseph
                                    Albert] Wright,36 and John W. Ray addressed the assembly. I
                                    satisfied myself—and I hope the crowd—tolerably. The thing
                                    went off well.
                        Mon. 17. I spent this forenoon at my rooms in the U.S. Court house; the afternoon in
                                    my garden. I set out tomato and cabbage plants. The excitement concerning the awful
                                    tragedy at 
                                        Washington
                                     does not subside. Secretary Seward, it seems, may survive. His son
                                    Fred, still lies insensible with little hope of recovery. It is now certain that
                                    [John] Wilkes Booth killed Mr. Lincoln. And it seems probable that both the
                                    assassins have escaped into 
                                        Virginia
                                    . Many others are implicated in the diabolical plot. There is reason to
                                    believe that the rebel leaders at 
                                        Richmond
                                     planned, or at least encouraged, the damnable act.
                        Mr. Lincoln's murder will not go unavenged. The rebel leaders and others
                                    will suffer for it. They ought to suffer for it. Rebels, who lay aside honorable
                                    warfare, and take to assassination and murder, ought all to be hanged.
                        Tues. 18 Mourning over the murder of Mr. Lincoln is unabated.
                        To-day I very reluctantly turned Watt J. Smith out of the office of Clerk of U.S.
                                    District Court, and appointed John D. Rowland in his place. Smith, though a 
                              
                                 36 Joseph Albert Wright (1810–1867) moved
                                            to Indiana in 1820 and as a young man became active in state politics. After
                                            serving in the state legislature he was elected to the 
                                                United States
                                             House of Representatives in 1843, served as governor of
                                            Indiana, 1849–1857, and was appointed 
                                                United States
                                             senator in 1862 and served until 1863. Twice Wright was
                                            appointed envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Prussia and
                                            was serving in this capacity at the time of his death. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1852.
                           
                                     harmless fellow, and one that so far as I know
                                    did as well as he could, knows very little of the duties of a clerk. But I had
                                    private reasons for making the change; and so I assume the responsibility.37 Whatever illwill towards me which this act may produce, I
                                    must and will bear as best I can.
                        Wed. 19. This is the funeral of the lamented President Lincoln. It is observed in
                                    most of the States under Governors' proclamations. Here the obsequies were
                                    very solemn and imposing. At 12 o'clock there was divine service in all the
                                    churches. These were festooned in crape and arrayed in other funereal insignia. At
                                    1.30 P. M. a procession was formed. It passed along various streets, and rested at
                                    the Governor's Circle. There it appeared to me [was] the largest assemblage
                                    I ever saw. The circle was full of people; and many, not able to get within the
                                    enclosure, occupied the adjacent streets and houses. The churches around were
                                    filled, and speakers addressed the people in the churches, and the vast multitude in
                                    and around the circle. And this is the last of Mr 
                                        Lincoln
                                    ! Farewell, honest, good, great man! Future generations will regard thee
                                    as not inferior to 
                                        Washington
                                    . Farewell! farewell!!
                        Fri. 21. All day in my office. This morning I received from the Atty. Generals office
                                    a commission to Benj. F. [J.] Spooner as Marshall [sic] of the
                                    U.S. for Indiana District. This, I hope, ends the trouble with A. [Marshal David] G.
                                    Rose. It is a great relief to me and all decent men in any way connected with the
                                    U.S. Building in this city. Spooner, it is understood, will qualify and give bond
                                    tomorrow. …
                        Sat. 22. …
                        To-day I inducted Benjamin S. [J.] Spooner into the office of U.S. District Marshall.
                        And to-day John D. Rowland agreed with James Venable to pay him, at
                                        least, $1200. a year as his Deputy Clerk.38
                        
                        
                           
                              37 See entry for April 22, 1865.
                           
                              38 James Venable was the husband of McDonald's
                                        eldest child, Mary (b. 1830).
                        
                        
                        Mon. 24. Spent this fine day in my office. The new clerk and new Marshal entered on
                                    their duties to-day.
                        At night, I attended a meeting at the Court-house to consider the best mode of
                                    receiving Mr. Lincoln's remains here next Sunday. It ended in nothing
                                    sensible.
                        Frid. 28. Rainy. Curran to-day was appointed a deputy to the U.S. Marshal.39 Thus by God's mercy, I have lately got, not only
                                    myself a good office, but both Mr. Venable and Curran—hitherto helpless
                                    men—places where they can make livings. I do rejoice and thank God! O may
                                    the[y] succeed!. …
                        Sat. 29. Spent the day at home. At 8 P. M. went on a special train to meet, at the
                                    State line, the funeral cortege of President Lincoln. Got to 
                                        Richmond
                                     at midnight.
                        Sun. 30. Lay in the special train at 
                                        Richmond
                                     till 4 A. M. when the train carrying the President's remains
                                    passed us going to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . Our train followed, arriving there about 8 A. M. The crowd was
                                    immense; but the day was so rainy as to derange all plans for processions
                                    &c. I went home, and, being weary and sleepy, stirred out very little all
                                    day. Great preparation had been made here for honoring the memory of President
                                    Lincoln. Costly arches, funereal drapery, and all sorts of emblems of woe filled all
                                    the city. Almost every house was festooned in black. Such a mourning never was known
                                    here. But the incessant rains kept the people within doors mostly. The train is to
                                    leave to night at midnight for 
                                        Chicago
                                    . Thence it will go direct to 
                                        Springfield
                                    , Ill.; and there, on next Thursday, as is said, will be interred the
                                    mortal remains of our good and great President Lincoln. Requiescat in
                                        pace.
                        
                        Tues. [May] 2. This day Our U.S. Courts began here. Judge Davis not with us. I
                                    impannelled [sic] and charged the Grand Jury, and then adjourned
                                    over till to-morrow.
                        Thurs. 4 This is the day on which the mortal remains of the good, the gentle, the
                                    great Mr. Lincoln are deposited in the grave. This afternoon funeral services were
                                        
                              
                                 39 Curran E. McDonald (b. 1833) was a son of the
                                            judge.
                           
                                     celebrated to his memory in the State house. An
                                    oration by Holliday, D. D. was delivered. Prayer by Mr. [O. A.] Burgess. A poem
                                    written by Mr. Jamison was read. And most noble and appropriate vocal and
                                    instrumental music was made. And this was the last of the great and good man. Once
                                    more, farewell!
                        Mon. 8. This is my birth day. I am 62 years old. Thanks to God that I have lived so
                                    long! I am yet a vigorous man; though some defect in my urinary organs rather seem
                                    to indicate that my life may soon end. I held Court to-day.
                        Tues. 9. This morning, Judge David Davis arrived and joined me in holding Court.
                        To day it is said that the authorities have fixed on Friday the 19th instant for
                                    hanging Bo[w]les, Milligan, and Horsey, the "Sons of Liberty",
                                    tried last Fall. I am sorry to hear it, not that they are not traitors, but that
                                    there is too much doubt of their having been convicted by a Court of competent
                                    jurisdiction. Judge Davis has the same fears I have on this topic. We will try to
                                    induce the President to delay the execution till the Supreme Court shall pass on the
                                    question. But our attempt will probably be unavailing, and perhaps be much
                                        blamed.40
                        
                        Wed. 10 We held Court all day. 'Tis rainy and cold to-day.
                        Thurs. 11. We held court all day to-day. The application of Dr. Bowles was made for a
                                    writ of habeas corpus to be delivered from military custody under sentence of death.
                                    On a certificate of division of opinion [it] was sent to the Supreme Court of the 
                                        United States
                                    . And Judge Davis and I united in a strong letter to the President 
                              
                                 40 Dr. William A. Bowles, Lambdin P. Milligan, and
                                            Stephen Horsey, prominent leaders in the Indiana Sons of Liberty, were tried
                                            for treason by a military court in October, 1864, and were sentenced to be
                                            hanged. Davis and McDonald recognized that it would be fruitless to issue a
                                            writ of habeas corpus, for the military authorities would ignore it. Thus
                                            they agreed to differ in their view of the case so the questions troubling
                                            them could be sent immediately to the Supreme Court. They asked if a writ
                                            should be issued, if those convicted should be discharged, and if military
                                            commissions have jurisdiction when civil courts are sitting. Meanwhile they
                                            requested a reprieve from President Johnson until the higher court could
                                            respond to these questions. When Johnson refused, they urged Governor
                                            Morton, who had originally favored bypassing the civil courts, to persuade
                                            the President. Bowles and Horsey were pardoned by Johnson in 1866, the same
                                            year that Justice Davis wrote the majority opinion in Ex parte
                                                Milligan. King, 
                                    
                                                    Lincoln
                                                's Manager, 250–51; Stampp, Indiana Politics, 249–64.
                           
                                     praying him to delay the execution till the
                                    Supreme Court should decide the case. I hope he may do it. We are aware that this
                                    course may bring on us much popular abuse. But so well persuaded are we that the
                                    execution of Bowles, Milligan, and Horsey would be impolitic if not illegal, that we
                                    cheerfully take the risk of the popular clamor.
                        Frid. 12. Busy all day in Court. It seems that the Government has determined to try
                                    all the conspirators, who murdered Mr. Lincoln and attempted to assassinate Mr.
                                    Seward, by a court martial, and secretly. What folly and madness! What unpardonable
                                    disregard of the Constitution ! These men all deserve death; but why not put them to
                                    death according to law?
                        Sat. 13. Spent the day in Court. The rage for blood, now that the war is over,
                                    increases.
                        Sun. 14. …
                        It is appointed that next Friday Bowles, Milligan, and Horsey are to be hanged. The
                                    mob about town are greatly exercised lest, Judge Davis and I release them. They seem
                                    to be ignorant that they are not in our power—that we neither can release
                                    them, nor would do so if we could. And yet there is danger of a mob disturbing us on
                                    this stupid notion that has seized the public mind. The truth, I learn, is that Gov.
                                    Morton has become alarmed, justly fears the consequence of the execution of these
                                    bad men, and last night telegraphed President Johnson earnestly begging a delay of
                                    the execution. The President I suppose, will grant the request. Then the mob will be
                                    furious, and will probably blame me and Davis for what Morton will have effected.
                                    Such is the blindness of infuriate[d] men.
                        Tues. 16. Still holding Court. Trouble seems to be brewing in regard to the military trials going on at 
                                        Washington
                                     against the conspirators to murder Mr. Lincoln and his cabinet. The
                                    news-papers are getting strong in opposition. All the political papers of N. Y.,
                                    except the Times, are outspoken against it. So are the Gazette and Commercial of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    . Where this will end, who knows? These are perilous times for
                                    politicians. Even Judges should be careful how [they] think, and how they speak.
                        
                        Wed. 17. In Court. A very warm day. A thunder storm at night.
                        President Johnson has commuted the punishment of Horsey from death to imprisonment
                                    for life. He reprieves Bowles & Milligan till June 2.
                        Judge Davis, to-day, told me a curious judicial story. It was thus: One of the
                                    Supreme Judges on the Bench at the time, told Judge Davis that when the Dred Scott
                                    case was tried in the U.S. Supreme Court, those Judges who favored the political
                                    doctrine of that case, proposed to discuss only the question of jurisdiction, and
                                    let the case go off on that point alone. But Judge [John] Mclean [sic], who was a vain, pompous man, insisted on entering on the whole question
                                    of slavery. Then said Taney, "if you will do that, I will do so
                                    too." The consequence was the most ingenious pi[e]ce of legal sophistry by
                                    Taney ever written, a most weak answer to it by McLean, and one of the most damnable
                                    and injurious decisions ever made by a Court.41
                        
                        Thurs. 18. This day I spent in Court. At night, Judge Davis, A. G. Porter, J. E.
                                    McDonald, and his wife took tea with us.
                        Frid. 19. In Court this morning, Judge [James] Morrison, chairman of a committee
                                    appointed some days ago, reported resolutions concerning the death of Mr. Lincoln.
                                    These were supported in addresses by T. Hendricks, Judge [Jeremiah] Sullivan, J. E.
                                    McDonald, J[ohn] S. Ketcham, A. G. Porter, W. P. Fishback. Judge Davis responded in
                                    a very appropriate address; and the Court adjourned.
                        Tues. 23. To-day we empannelled [sic] a jury to try Scott, charged
                                    with being one of the conspirators, who, in opposing the draft last year, murdered
                                    Capt. McCarty in 
                                        Daviess
                                     County.42
                        
                        
                           
                              41 See entry for May 25, 1865.
                           
                              42 Captain Eli McCarty was murdered by Sons of Liberty
                                        while serving conscription notices in October, 1864. Report of the
                                            Adjutant General, I, 288.
                        
                        
                        Wed. 24. This morning, Scott made an affidavit to continue his cause for absent
                                    witnesses. We laid the case over till Friday and sent attachments for his witnesses.
                                    In the mean time, Mcavoy, another of the conspirators charged with the murder of
                                    McCarty, appeared in open Court, and pleaded guilty!
                        Thurs. 25. …
                        The anecdote about the Dred Scott decision written ante, p. 87,
                                    seems to be contradicted by [George] Bancroft in[an] article in the June (1865) No
                                    of the Atlantic Monthly, p. 761.43
                        
                        Fri. 26. Spent this day in Court. Nothing important doing.
                        Sat. 27. This morning we entered on the trial of George Y. Scott for the murder in 
                                        Daviess
                                     County of Capt McCarty on the 3rd of last October. We passed through
                                    only a part of the evidence for the U.S. to-day. But what we heard makes a case of
                                    awful murder, and proves Scott guilty beyond question. The trial was adjourned till
                                    Monday.
                        Sun. 28. …
                        At 3 P. M. Judge Davis and I went to Judge [Jeremiah] Morrison's where we
                                    took tea, and staid [sic] till after sunset. We had a big and long
                                    talk. After it was over, I was struck with the fact that it consisted wholly of the
                                    historic—anecdotes of the Past—each of us "shouldered
                                    his crutch, and showed how fields were won." Sad proof that we are all
                                    growing ancient—within the realm of "narrative old
                                        age."44
                        
                        
                           
                              43 Though Davis doubtless erred in the implication of a
                                        verbal encounter (see entry for May 17), he is correct in his assertion that
                                        northerners McLean and Benjamin Curtis forced the hands of Taney and his
                                        southern colleagues. Carl Brent Swisher, Roger B. Taney (
                                            New York
                                        , 1935), 497–99. In "The Place of Abraham 
                                            Lincoln
                                         in History," Atlantic Monthly, XV (June,
                                        1865), 761–62, George Bancroft does not refute Davis'
                                        account, but merely emphasizes the importance of simultaneous political
                                        pressures in persuading the justices to speak out upon an issue which the
                                        political branches of government seemed incompetent to solve. McDonald referred
                                        to page 87 in his original journal. The entry will be found on page 205 in this
                                        reproduction.
                           
                              44 These favorite phrases of McDonald, which he used
                                        frequently together, were borrowed from Oliver Goldsmith's Deserted Village and Homer's Illiad.
                           
                        
                        
                        Mon. 29. Spent the whole day on the trial of Scott. The U.S. evidence was closed this
                                    evening. A case was made than which a stronger could hardly be imagined. It is
                                    doubtful whether any evidence or argument will be offered in defense.
                        At night Judges Davis & Morrison took tea with me.
                        Tues. 30. To-day the Jury found Scott guilty of murder.
                        Wed. 31. We entered on the trial of Geo. W. Hedrick. The case does not look so strong
                                    as that against Scott.
                        The President has commuted the punishment of Bowles & Milligan to the
                                    penitentiary for life.
                        Sat. [June] 3. This day, the jury found Hedrick guilty of murder. This is three
                                    persons already found guilty of the murder of Captain Eli McCarty. Several others
                                    are yet to be tried.
                        Mon. 5 to Sat. 11 This solid week I spent in Court. On Monday, Whitesides &
                                    Scales were put on trial for the murder of McCarty. The jury found them guilty on
                                    Tuesday. Five of these murderers now stand convicted in our Court. If it were left
                                    to me, I would, at once, pronounce sentence of death on them all. There is, however,
                                    one legal point on which possibly some doubt may exist. And Judge Davis is not
                                    willing to pronounce the sentence till he can get the opinion of all the Supreme
                                    Judges on that point. On this account alone, sentence will be delayed till
                                        November.45
                        
                        Judge Davis left us on Tuesday evening; and during the residue of the week, I held
                                    court alone.
                        Mon. 12. A warm day. I was in Court. But nothing done, except that an abandoned young
                                    man, who it seems has been cohabiting with a negress, pleaded guilty to an
                                    indictment for passing a forged $50. "greenback." I
                                    deferred his sentence till tomorrow.
                        
                           
                              45 Davis asked the Supreme Court if notifying drafted men
                                        to appear was a service relating to enrollment, for interfering with the draft
                                        could bring the death penalty. The Supreme Court ordered the release of the
                                        prisoners. Davis was a lifelong foe of capital punishment. King, 
                                 
                                                Lincoln
                                            's Manager, 251n; U.S vs. Scott,
                                        3 Wallace 642 (1866).
                        
                        
                        Sat. 17. Closed Court to-day. Now I am foot loose till November—the
                                    longest time of leisure I have had since 1830. Should I live through it may I spend
                                    it well. Should I die before it ends, may I go to a better country!
                        Mon. [July] 3. Spent this day in my law chambers marking and numbering my law books.
                        Fri. 7. I had contemplated starting to morrow to the Judicial Convocation at 
                                        Niagara Falls
                                    . But quarter's salary has not yet arrived; and cant go without
                                    it. So I am in—abeyance.
                        Sat. 8. …
                        
                           
                                        Lincoln
                                    's murder[e]rs were hanged yesterday under the sentence of the
                                    Military commission. That they deserved death, I do not question. But that they were
                                    put to death legally, I much doubt. The precedent I consider most dangerous; the
                                    effect on future politics, I fear will be most disastrous.
                        Tues. 11. On my way to 
                                        Niagara Falls
                                    , I found myself in the morning at Crestline [
                                        Ohio
                                    ]. Here I took breakfast, and then pursued my way to Cleaveland where I
                                    arrived about 10 A. M. Here I waited till 4 P. M. for a boat. At that hour I went on
                                    board of the fine Propeller Arctics bound for Buffalo N. Y., a distance of about 190
                                    miles. On this boat, I found Judges Wilson McCandless & son &
                                    daughter, and Judge H. H. Leavitt & Lady—all bound for The Falls.
                                    The evening was fine, and we had a delightful sail, Nor did our voyage end till the
                                    next day. In a fine state room, I might have slept well; but the occasion was new
                                    and exciting, and sleep fled away on the waters of lake 
                                        Erie
                                    .
                        Wed. 12. [
                                        Niagara Falls
                                    , N. Y.] A little after sunrise, we began to descry the shore at 
                                        Buffalo
                                     where we landed about 7 A. M. Here Judge Willson and Lady of 
                                        Cleveland
                                    , and Judge Hall & Lady of 
                                        Buffalo
                                     joined our party; and about 9 A. M. we all took the cars for the Falls,
                                    distant about 16 miles. It was a pleasant half hours' run nearly all the
                                    way down the shore of Niagara. We all stopped at the Cataract House—a
                                    magnificent hotel on the river above the great Falls.
                        This day and the following, I went round and saw all the rare sights—goat
                                    Island, the suspension bridge,  the sublime
                                    Falls, every thing. But why attempt a description of what thousands have attempted,
                                    and what after all is indescribable. To have an adequate notion of these wonders,
                                    one must see them.
                        To-day our Judicial Convocation assembled in the ball room of the Cataract house.
                                    Only 11 Judges were present. The consulta[t]ion chiefly concerned salaries, and the
                                    creation of an intermediate Court of errors, so as to relieve the Supreme Judges of
                                    some of their labors. We agreed on a plan to be placed in the hands of our friends
                                    in Congress. Our Session lasted only two days. On Thursday night it ended.
                        Now let us take a look at 10 of these Judges:
                        1. H. H. Leavitt of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    . He must be over 70 years of age. He looks feeble; and he is evidently
                                    on his last legs. I think he never was a great lawyer. As he now is I see nothing in
                                    hime [sic] but a good man with a fair share of common sense,
                                    common honesty, and common law—all mingled together. His excellent lady
                                    looks nearly as old as the judge. They seem an affectionate old couple, who having
                                    "clomb the hill thegither", are now going quietly down on the
                                    other side of it, to repose in the valley.46
                        
                        2. Judge Willson, of 
                                        Cleveland
                                    . He is a large, tall man, reasonably corpulent, has a red face, and
                                    somewhat commanding appearance. He must, I think, be largely over sixty. He looks
                                    like an upright judge; and I esteem him a good, pleasant man; but I fail to discover
                                    in him any thing remarkable either in intellect, law, or literature. He evidently
                                    feels his consequence, and seems fond of letting folks know that he is rich.47 His wife is a nice 
                              
                                 46 Humphrey Howe Leavitt (1796–1873) served
                                            as 
                                                United States
                                             district judge for 
                                                Ohio
                                             from 1837 to 1871. He had resigned from the 
                                                United States
                                             House of Representatives during his third term to accept the
                                            judicial appointment. He had earlier been in both houses of the state
                                            legislature. Biographical Directory of the American
                                            Congress, 1203.
                              
                                 47 Hiram V. Willson (1808–1866) had come to 
                                                Ohio
                                             from 
                                                New York
                                             in 1833. In 1854 he was selected by the 
                                                Cleveland
                                             bar to go to 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., to appeal to have the state split into two judicial
                                            districts. The next year he was appointed by President Pierce as the first
                                            judge of the 
                                                United States
                                             Court for the Northern District of 
                                                Ohio
                                            , a position which he held until his death. The
                                                Biographical Encyclopaedia, of 
                                                    Ohio
                                                 of the Nineteenth Century (
                                                Cincinnati
                                             and 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1876), 364–65.
                           
                                     little lady of good sense; and his daughter,
                                    Mrs. McDowell, a lady of some 25 years, is a pleasing, intelligent woman, but not
                                    brilliant.
                        3 Judge Wilson McCandless of 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    . He is rather a burley [sic] looking old gentleman,
                                    about 5 ft. 10 inches high, heavy set, fat, white whiskers, prominent nose, a face
                                    not intellectual, nor yet sensual. I would guess that he is a kind, clever old 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     farmer with few vices, few distinguishing virtues, little learning, no
                                    literature. Plainly he is neither a scholar nor a lawyer, though I deem him a
                                        gentleman.48 His daughter is a pleasant girl of some 20
                                    years; his son an ugly boy of 22.
                        4. Judge Smally of 
                                        Vermont
                                    . He is about 60 years of age, and is about fat enough—say 5
                                    ft. 8 inches high, has a sort of pug nose. I take him for a shallow, weak, wordy,
                                    blathering, hectoring man. I am certain there is nothing in him "worth
                                        recording."49
                        
                        5. Judge Hall of 
                                        Buffalo
                                    , N. Y. About 50 yrs. old—some 5 ft. 10 inches
                                    high—heavy set—just fat enough—gray
                                    head—very fine looking—a face that shows determination and
                                    resolution. He is polite, affable, courteous, well mannered. I should say a man of
                                    much force of character. I would like him, were he not a democrat. I think Buchanan
                                    appointed him.50
                        
                        His wife I like much. She is an elegant lady—altogether the first woman of
                                    our company.
                        6. Judge Trigg of Tenn. He is about 47 years old—tall and
                                    slender—dark complexion—heavy, long black beard—a
                                    man of few words—and seems a modest, sensible 
                              
                                 48 Wilson McCandless (1810–1882) was
                                            district judge for western 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                             from 1859 to 1876. He was active in Democratic party affairs
                                            but was never a candidate for office. J. W. F. White, "The
                                            Judiciary of Allegheny County," 
                                    
                                                    Pennsylvania
                                                 Magazine of History and Biography, VII (1883),
                                            187–88.
                              
                                 49 David Allen Smalley of 
                                                Burlington
                                             was district judge for 
                                                Vermont
                                             from 1857 to 1877. Abby Maria Hemenway (ed.), The 
                                                    Vermont
                                                 Historical Gazetteer (
                                                Burlington
                                            , Montpelier, Claremont, 1867–1891), I, 472; III,
                                            476, 1112, 1117–18; IV, 1200.
                              
                                 50 Nathan Kelsey Hall (1810–1874) was in
                                            the 
                                                United States
                                             House of Representatives and was postmaster general under
                                            Fillmore prior to his service as district judge, 1852–1874. He
                                            was appointed by the Whig Fillmore. Biographical Directory of
                                                the American Congress, 991–92.
                           
                                     gentleman. I had no opportunity to form a
                                    judgment either as to his law or literature. On the whole, I like the man.51
                        
                        7. Judge Field of 
                                        New Jersey
                                    . He is probably about 50 years old. He has a very singular
                                    appearance—is tall, slim—rawboned—has a long bony
                                    face and prominent features—he wears mustaches—looks wild and
                                    impudent —has, perhaps, genius—dont look like a
                                    student—seems eccentric. I can hardly form a notion of his talents and
                                        learning.52
                        
                        8 Judge Bland Ballard of Ky. He is 45 years old—is tall,
                                    slender—of delicate frame—has a small well formed
                                    head—is somewhat bald—what hair he has is black. He is
                                    evidently a student and I should think, a learned lawyer, and an able judge. He is
                                    rather taciturn—and clearly he is not a brilliant man.53
                        
                        9 Judge S. S. Withey of 
                                        Michigan
                                    . He is probably about 40 years old. He is tall and well looking, though
                                    a cripple—defective in his left leg. I take him for a good, sensible
                                    man."
                        10. Judge Bendict [sic] of the Eastern District of N. Y. He is the
                                    youngest man among us, about 37 years old I would suppose. He is a stout, well
                                    formed man—has a large good shaped head and face, and rather a severe
                                    countenance, indicative of study. His complexion is sandy; and he wears the
                                    execrable mustache. He is 
                              
                                 51 Connally F. Trigg (1810–1880) was
                                            appointed in 1862 and served until his death. Though a Unionist he gained
                                            popularity after the war for his leniency and conservatism in dealing with
                                            Reconstruction matters. John Trotwood Moore (ed.), 
                                    
                                                    Tennessee
                                                 the Volunteer State, 1769–1923 (4 vols., 
                                                Chicago
                                             and 
                                                Nashville
                                            , 1923), II, 238–39.
                              
                                 52 Richard Stockton Field (1803–1870) had
                                            been attorney general of 
                                                New Jersey
                                            , 1838–1841, professor of the 
                                                Princeton
                                             Law School from 1847, and 
                                                United States
                                             senator for the two months prior to his appointment to the
                                            district court in January, 1863. He served until his death. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 885.
                              
                                 53 Bland Ballard (1819–1879) was appointed
                                            in 1861 by Lincoln and served until his death. He was a Unionist and opposed
                                            to slavery. He heard a number of important treason trials resulting from 
                                                Kentucky
                                            's peculiar position between the two warring sections.
                                            H. Levin (ed.), The Lawyers and Lawmakers of 
                                                    Kentucky
                                                
                                  (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1897), 145, 158–59.
                              
                                 54 Solomon L. Withey (1820–1886) had served
                                            in the state senate prior to his appointment as 
                                                United States
                                             judge for the Western District of 
                                                Michigan
                                             in 1863. He remained on the bench until his death. Early History of 
                                                    Michigan
                                                 with Biographies … (Lansing, 1888),
                                            709–10.
                           
                                     evidently a man of ability and legal
                                    learning—especially in admiralty law. I suspect he is not a very amiable
                                        gentleman.55
                        
                        Thurs. 13. Our Judicial confabulation continues to-day, and ended at night. The
                                    subjects of discussion were the raising of salaries—in which we all
                                    agreed—and the creation of a court of errors intermediate between the
                                    Circuit and Supreme Court. We agreed, too, on a plan for this, and unanimously voted
                                    ourselves judges of the aforesaid courts of errors.
                        Tuesday 25. [
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ] A heavy rain. To night, the Military gave Genl. Sherman a great
                                    reception in "Military Hall". Some 200 to 300 people present. A
                                    great supper, and good wine. I had to respond to the first toast. Sherman made a
                                    magnificent speech. His political doctrine had the true ring. The other speeches
                                    were generally good.
                        Tues. [Aug.] 1. I hold Court to-day to hear an important chancery case. [Timothy D.] 
                                        Lincoln
                                     of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and Siddell of 
                                        Richmond
                                    , appeared for the complainant, and J. E. McDonald and Walker of 
                                        Chicago
                                     for the defendant. The case was discussed all day, and will be
                                    discussed to morrow.
                        Weed. [sic] 2. The lawyers, in the chancery argument commenced
                                    yesterday, followed it up all this day. The case involves over $500.000
                                        [sic]; and it was very well argued.
                        Thurs. 3. I spent this day in my chambers investigating the case argued before me on
                                    Tuesday & Wednesday.
                        Tues. 8. I spent this day in my study. It passed pleasantly.
                        How sweet it is to be furnished with a good room, with no one to molest me, plenty of
                                    books, exuberent [sic] health, and a quiet conscience! I thank God
                                    for such a blessing.
                        Wed. 9. To-day, I held Court for the settlement of a large chancery case.
                        
                           
                              55 Charles L. Benedict (b. 1824) of 
                                            New York City
                                         was appointed district judge in 1865 and resigned in 1897. Prominent Families of 
                                                New York
                                            
                               (rev. ed., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1898), 55.
                        
                        
                        Mon. 21. …
                        I hear a rumor to-day that President Johnson gets drunk—drunk twice he is
                                    said lately to have been in cabinet meetings. I pray it may turn out untrue. If
                                    true, what is to become of the country in these perilous times? The Deity pity us!
                        Tues. 22. …
                        Court was adjourned over to-day, and I decided the application for a temporary
                                    injunction and receiver in the case of Pullen v. Chicago & Gin. Air-line R.
                                    R. Co. et al.
                        Fri. [Sept.] 15. …I am reading
                        the argument of [John A.] Bingham against Lincolns murderers. I think Jeff. Davis was
                                    in that hellish plot.
                        Tues. 19. …
                        We—i. e., I, A. G. Porter, and Chas. A. Ray—have agreed to hold
                                    a Law School in the N. W. Christian U. [now 
                                        Butler
                                     University] next Wmter. So I must go to work preparing. No more liesure
                                        [sic] now till the first of April. I take this labor, not
                                    because I love it; but to do all I can to pay my debts, and to do the best I can for
                                    my children. Emphatically I attempt it in the name of God.
                        Wed. 20 Revising lectures for the Law School till after 3 P. M.
                        Tues. 26. …
                        General [U.S.] Grant was here to-day. I dined with him at the Bates House. He is a
                                    stout built well looking man—rather below medium height—a
                                    good, but not very expressive face, nothing very remarkable about it—a
                                    very well shaped forehead not very high—complexion slightly
                                    sandy—wears his beard evenly trimmed about an inch long—modest
                                    and coy as a maid—very taciturn so far as I could judge. I do not know
                                    how he talks, as I had no chance to hear him talk. Gov. Morton, in a speech,
                                    introduced him to the vast crowd at the State house. He bowed, thanked the people,
                                    and said he never made speeches. …
                        
                        Thursday [Oct.] 5. A sad case to-day of a soldier boy in jail for stealing out of the
                                    P. O. It appears to me that I ought to save this poor boy, if I can consistently
                                    with official duty. …
                        Tues. [Nov.] 7. …Our Federal
                        Courts begin to-day. Judge Davis is with us. I charged the grand Jury. We heard
                                    motions, and adjourned.
                        Fri. 10. I fasted to-day. In Court. At night at a party at Roaches. The four Supreme
                                    Judges, Judge Davis, Judge [Jeremiah] Smith, and a few lawyers composed the company.
                        Sat. 11. In Court. Judge Davis trying my clients, Williams, Jackson, et al.
                                    gu[e]rrillas, for robbing a post Office. I do not sit in the case.
                        Sun. 12. …When preaching was
                        over I went with Judge Davis to Judge Morrison's where we dined and spent
                                    the evening. Col. [Clement B.] Simonson was of our party—all four old
                                    men. The conversation was almost entirly [sic] of past
                                    incidents—historic—It reminded me of Goldsmith's old
                                    soldier, who "shouldered his crutch, and showed how fields were
                                    won."—It brought stron[g]ly to my thoughts, the phrase of
                                    another poet—"Narrative old age."
                        Tues. 14. At work in Court to-day. At night at a dinner at Senator
                                    Hendricks'. This affair was after the fashion of 
                                        Washington City
                                    —divers courses, &c. &c. …
                        Wed. 15. Working in Court again to-day. But nothing on hand of great consequence.
                        I trust that these times I am living free from wilful sin. Though my official duties
                                    have induced me to omit attending the daily prayer meeting, which, I believe are
                                    still in progress.
                        Frid. 17. In Court all day. I fasted till sundown; and felt well.
                        Judge Davis leaves us to-night. I have a long docket to close up, which I must do by
                                    myself.
                        
                        Sat. 18. I held court in the forenoon. …
                        This morning Gov. Morton is on his way to Europe via 
                                        Washington
                                     & N. Y. His failing health makes it highly probable that we
                                    shall see him no more.56 He is a strange mixture of great
                                    qualities and vicious habits.
                        Mon. 27. In Court to-day. Afternoon began the trial of Arnold for counterfeiting.
                                    Finished the evidence, and deferred the argument till tomorrow.
                        Tues. 28. Hard at work in Court all day, and till 10 P. M.
                        Sat. [Dec.] 2. In Court to-day till noon. With the last few days I have sentenced
                                    numerous malefactors to the penetintiary [sic]. It is a sad thing.
                                    O the folly of sinners! 0 the deceitfulness of sin!
                        Mon. 4. This is the day on which our Law School was to begin. Only three students
                                    appeared! The thing is a failure.
                        I had no Court to-day.
                        Frid. 8. I have organized a private law class, and am now teaching it daily.
                        I held Court this afternoon, and tried and decided an action of ejectment.
                                    …
                        Sun. 10. …
                        At night, I called on Gov. Dunning & his new wife. She seems much his junior,
                                    I hope neither of them will find out that they have done a foolish thing.57
                        
                        Mon. 11. I am now fairly embarked in a private Law School. The number of students
                                    attending were too few to make it a department in the N. W. Christian University, we
                                        
                              
                                 56 Governor Morton lived until 1877, outliving
                                            McDonald by eight years. In fact, Morton, a 
                                                United States
                                             senator in 1869, chaired the meeting of the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             bar which was called to commemorate McDonald's death.
                              
                                 57
                                            
                                                Paris
                                             Chipman Dunning (1806–1884), doctor, teacher, and
                                            lawyer, served six consecutive terms in the Indiana general assembly,
                                            beginning in 1833. He was elected lieutenant governor in 1848 and became
                                            governor when James A. Whitcomb was elected to the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate. Again in the state senate in 1863, Dunning was chosen
                                            president pro tempore of that body when Lieutenant Governor Morton succeeded
                                            Henry S. Lane. Dunning's first wife died in 1863, and in 1865 he
                                            married Mrs. Allen D. Ashford. National Cyclopedia of American
                                                Biography, XIII, 269.
                           
                                     abandoned that lidea [sic],
                                    and I have turned them into a private class, and teach them two hours a day in my
                                    law Chambers at $40 per session of 4 months.
                        Sat. 16. I am now daily for 2 hours engaged in instructing a law class of 7 very
                                    promising young men. …
                        Mon. 18. I am again reading Cicero De Officiis. The more I read that wonderful man,
                                    the more I admire him.
                        Tues. 19. Engaged to-day as usual. I read to-night a sermon in the Independent by H.
                                    W. Beecher on the text "When he came to himself."58 I would rather have Beecher's talents than those of any man in the
                                    world. I think him the greatest orator alive.
                        Mon. 25. Christmas Day. I spent it thus: After Breakfast, I went to my rooms and got
                                    the depositions in the case of the collision of the steam boats Morning Star
                                    & 
                                        Crescent City
                                     near 
                                        Evansville
                                    —read and annotated 182 pages of them, which kept me till
                                    about 8 P. M., except that I spent about 2 hours discussing a very good dinner at
                                    Doctor Clippingers. …
                        Sun. 31. …
                        The year ends to night. The flight of Time! Solemn thought! Heavenly Father! I thank
                                    thee for the mercies of A. D. 1865, bestowed on me and mine. I believe I have, by
                                    thy grace, spent it better than any year in the last 50. …
                        January, 1866
                        Mon. 8. Tues. 9. Wed. 10. I spent these 3 days in the usual round of daily business
                                    without any thing occurring of unusual importance. On the 10th I received my
                                    quarter's salary—or the 9th—$601.25.
                                    …
                        Thurs. 11 This day passed without any thing to record. I am now daily engaged with my
                                    law school of ten young men.
                        
                           
                              58 Printed in 
                                            Warren
                                         Choate Shaw, History of American Oratory (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1928), 437ff.
                        
                        
                        Tues. [Feb.] 20. It is turning warm. I employ myself these days with my 13
                                    law-students. It keeps me just about enough employed to render it pleasant.
                        Th. 22. All hail to 
                                        Washington
                                    's birth day. The Union party had a State con-vention [sic] here to-day. I did not attend it. …
                        Sat. 24. A windy disagreeable day. To-day I paid my taxes, State, County, &
                                    city—$235. Besides this I pay national tax about
                                    $100.—Say in all 334 per annum. A pretty heavy tax for so poor
                                    a man as I am.
                        Sat. [March] 10 There is much sameness in my days this season. In the morning I am
                                    with my law students. Afternoon, I prepare for the next days duties with them; and
                                    so I go from day to day and from week to week.
                        Sat. 31. To-day my Law-School ends. It is a grateful relief to me. For 4 months, I
                                    have attended to it every day except Sundays. I have not missed a minute from it
                                    that I remember. Every morning I have been in the room before the hour. Every
                                    student has behaved well. Not the slightest irritation has occurred between them or
                                    between me and them that I am aware of.
                        Fri. [April] 6. I attended morning prayer meeting, and spent the rest of the day in
                                    my study. This day I received my Q[u]arter's salary $601.25.
                                    They now keep back $23.75 every quarter as tax on my income.59
                        
                        Tues. [May] 1. To-day I begin U.S. Courts. I empannelled and charged the grand jury,
                                    and did little else.
                        Wed. 2. …
                        In Court. Judge Davis joined us after noon. Little was done.
                        
                           
                              59 Chief Justice Taney had protested the taxes as an
                                        unconstitutional lowering of judges' salaries, but he was ignored by
                                        Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Chase. Finally, in 1872, the secretary of treasury
                                        concluded that the tax was illegal for the federal judges; and they were
                                        reimbursed.
                        
                        
                        Tues. 8. Judge Davis is trying the case of the U.S. vs Traub, in which I was counsel,
                                    and therefore I do not sit. So, I am unemployed to-day.
                        To-day I am 63 years old. God be praised that I have lived so long. O that the
                                    residue of my life may be spent in his fear and favor. O that, for the sake of my
                                    children, my health and life may be preserved a little longer.
                        Wed. 9. Th. 10 The trial of the Traub case still goes on and so I am unemployed these
                                    days. …
                        Fri. 11. In Court most of the day. At night Judge Davis supped with us. …
                        Frid. [18.] Judge Davis left us to night for home. A fine Summer like day. But this
                                    awful aching in my flesh & bones is still on me, and I grow more and more
                                    alarmed about it.
                        Th. 24 All day in Court trying Thos. Ira Johnson for forging "Green
                                    backs". He was found guilty.
                        Frid 25 Sat. 26 I spent these days trying the curious case of Roberts v.
                                    Fulsom—the former a 
                                        Tennessee
                                     rebel; the latter a Yankee rogue. I gave judgt. for the rebel for over
                                    $7000.
                        Friday. [June] 1. Sat. 2. I spent these days in Court. Trying criminal
                                    cases—mostly about passing Counterfeit money—sending wretches
                                    to penitentiary nearly every day.
                        Mon. 4 Tues. 5 Wed. 6 Th. 7. I spent these days in Court, trying important caseses
                                        [sic]. The 6th & 7th were spent in hearing Jo. E.
                                    McDonald, Col. [Henry L.] Burnett, & Judge Bartlet for the plff. and Geo. E.
                                    Pugh, and Col. [John A.] Hendricks for the defts. in an injunction case against the
                                    Ind. & Cin. R. R. Co.
                        Mon. 11 to Sat. 16. This has been to me a solid week of work in the U.S. Circuit
                                    Court. I have tried numbers of cases, and sentenced several men to the penitentiary.
                        Wed. 20. My court is about over; and I am about done over.
                        
                        Wed. [July] 4. "The glorious fourth." There was a great
                                    soldier's gathering here to-day, and the usual processions and display. I
                                    was too unwell to take any part in it.
                        Th. 5. I finally adjourned my courts to-day. It is very warm, and I am very poorly.
                                    So I lurked about my house nearly all day.
                        Mon. 9. …
                        I am now positively doing nothing. No official business to do, and too unwell to
                                    enter upon unofficial business. Am I any better off than when I practised law, and
                                    was run to death all the time?
                        "Man never is, but always to be
                                        blessed."60
                        
                        Through this life he pursues it in vain—Hope it will not be so in the
                                    next.
                        Th. 19. Spent the day in my study revising my law lectures. I have concluded to teach
                                    law school again next Winter. I fear my health will hardly support the labor. But
                                    "famine drives the wolf from the wood." So I must prowl.
                        Sat. 21. Things politically look bad. [James] Speed the atty general, and Harlin
                                    [James Harlan] the Secretary of the Interior have resigned on account of the policy
                                    of President Johnson. The President, it is now clear, turns traitor to those who
                                    elected him, and goes over to the Democrats. I suppose he is still a Union man. But
                                    he retains his ancient demagoguery. But he designs, I think to resuscitate the old,
                                    rotten Democratic Party, and turn his back on all others.
                        Wed. [Aug.] 1. …
                        Congress adjourned last Saturday. They raised their salaries to $5000 per
                                    annum, but did nothing for the Judges.61
                        
                        
                           
                              60 Alexander Pope, Essay on Man, Ep. I,
                                        1, 95. The entire quotation reads: 
                                            Hope springs eternal in the human breast;
                                            Man never is, but always to be blest.
                                        
                           
                           
                              61
                                        Congressional Globe, 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 412.
                        
                        
                        Th. 2. …
                        Human depravity has ever been an enigma. Perhaps God gives bodies to us like rough
                                    unwrought material to an artist. Perhaps He intends that we shall work on them, as
                                    the sculptor on the marble, till we bring them to form and comeliness. Perhaps it is
                                    our own fault, if we never bring them to the perfection of which the rude material
                                    is capable.
                        Frid. 3. …
                        In the afternoon, a Mr. a Russian attache of the Russian Embassy, called on me. He is
                                    travelling to acquaint himself with the legal institutions of this country. He took
                                    tea with me; and I found him an intellegent [sic] man. I like him
                                    well. He has studied law, and speaks English very intelligibly.62
                        
                        Mon. 6. …
                        It is reported to-day that President Johnson has removed from the Collectorship of
                                    Internal Revenue here, that faithful and competent officer, Dr. Wright, and put in
                                    his place Austin 
                                        Brown
                                    ! So the guillotine begins to work.63
                        
                        Th. 9 A fine cool day. In my study nearly all day. A feeling of dread of our national
                                    commotions is spreading. What next?
                        Sat. 11. In my study nearly all day. Judge Perkins and I have resolved on
                                    establishing here an independent Law School. I do solely [so] pecuniarly to keep my
                                    head above the waves. …
                        
                           
                              62 McDonald does not give the name of the Russian attache,
                                        perhaps because he could not spell his name. No mention of such a visit has been
                                        found in the newspapers of the day or in early histories of 
                                            Marion
                                         County and 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        .
                           
                              63 Austin H. Brown was a War Democrat who had been
                                        co-owner of the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Daily State Sentinel from 1850 to 1855. He had worked for this
                                        Democratic journal since he was a boy. W. E. A. English, History of
                                            Early 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             Masonry (Indiana Historical Society
                                            Publications, Vol. III, No. 1; 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1900), 33; Wylie J. Daniels, The Village at the End
                                            of the Road: A Chapter in Early Indiana Railroad History (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIII, No. 1; 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1938), 7; Ernestine Bradford Rose, The Circle: The
                                            Center of Our Universe (Indiana Historical Society
                                            Publications, Vol. XVIII, No. 4; 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1957), 384.
                        
                        
                        Mon. 13 Tues. 14 Wed. 15 Th. 16. …
                        On Tuesday President Johnson's convention met at 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , composed almost wholly of Copperheads and traitors. God save the
                                    country.
                        During these days, Judge Perkins and I got up a Corporation for a Law College in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . The concern was organized, and he & I are the professors.
                        Fr. 17 Sat. 18 These days I spent in my study revising my law lectures. It is a
                                    tedious work; and unless my health get[s] better, I fear that with all my work, I
                                    shall never again deliver them.
                        Mon. 20. …
                        It seems now plain that President Johnson means to displace the men who voted for him
                                    and who brought the rebellion to grief, and to put his tools in their offices. Our
                                    revenue officers and P. M. are sure to go; and perhaps our U.S. Marshal &
                                    District Atty. There is no instance of such perfidy since Judas hung himself. Shame
                                    and infamy will eternally roll their burning fires over the memory of Andrew
                                    Johnson. So mote it be!
                        Mon. 27. …
                        While at Hume's64 I read a volume pourtraying [sic] army life and prison life during the great rebellion, by one
                                    of the Tribune's army correspondents, whose name I forget. He was long a
                                    prisoner with the rebels. The horrors he relates are heart rending. I think we have
                                    no instance in modern times of such barbarity on so large a scale towards prisoners.
                                    O the hell hounds, the demons! And these are the men whom that prince of demagogues,
                                    Andrew Johnson wishes to take under his special protection, and to make rulers of
                                    the U.S.!!! This is as much worse than ordinary treason, as 
                                        South Carolina
                                     and 
                                        Arkansas
                                     are worse than hell. And to do this, the false devil is endangering the
                                    very existence of our national government. Under such circumstances, what is before
                                    us, who can tell?
                        
                           
                              64 David Hume McDonald (b. 1832) was the judge's
                                        son.
                        
                        
                        Wed. [Sept.] 5. …
                        Andrew Johnson is making his tour of the States. He avoids New 
                                        England
                                    , and is now in Ill. He makes a fool of himself wherever he goes
                                    — quarrels with rowdies — egotizes — exhibits his
                                    malice and ignorance.
                        Mon. 10. In my study to-day. At night President Johnson arrived here. Grant, [David
                                    G.] Farragut, Seward, [Gen. Lovell H.] Rousseau & others were with him. A
                                    mob disgraced the city, broke up the gathering, destroyed the life of one man and
                                    wounded several others.
                        Sat. [Oct.] 6. I spent this day doing little. I received my quarter's
                                    salary, $601.25.
                        Mon. 8. …
                        Governor Brownlow is in the city sick. And General 
                                        Butler
                                     spoke at Masonic Hall at night.65
                        
                        Tues. 9. This is election day. Pa. O. & Ind. elect members of Cong. to day.
                                    Great excitement. Will the wretched policy of our drunken President be sustained?
                                    That's the question.
                        Wed. 10. Well the political dust has cleared away a little, and we begin to see the
                                    result of yesterdays election. Pa. O. & Ind. have declared emphatically
                                    against the President and the Democracy. I hope that this result saves the Union.
                        Mon. 15. To-day our Law-school begins with a fair prospect of a good attendance. But
                                    alas! I am sick. Can I live through 4 1/2 months of hard work?
                        Wed. 17. Th. 18. I spent these two fine autumnal days. [sic] in my
                                    horse mill round in our Law School. This school promises well. We have now about 30
                                    students, with the expectation of more. If only my health will hold out how glad I
                                    will be.
                        
                           
                              65
                                        
                                            Tennessee
                                         Governor William G. Brownlow (1805–1877) and Major
                                        General Benjamin P. Butler (1818–1893) were part of the large
                                        contingent of Republican leaders trailing President Johnson on his
                                        electioneering circuit.
                        
                        
                        Mon. 22 to Sat. 27. Spent this solid week in my Law School, nothing happening worth
                                    recording.
                        Thurs. [Nov.] 1 to Sat. 3. My law school is now engrossing my attention. I am not
                                    [well]; but I am not worked hard.
                        Tues. 6. …
                        The Fall term of my Court begins to day. I went into Court at 2 P. M. and impannelled
                                    the Grand Jury. But was so sick, I had to go home. It was an awful day of sickness.
                        Wed. 7. Suffered all day from nausea and dizziness. Could not hold court, nor hear my
                                    law class. Lay on my back nearly all day.
                        Th. 8. I hope I am getting well. I sat in court a few hours, and lectured the Law
                                    Students, of whom we have now 28[.]
                        Fr. 9 to Sat. 10. Spent these days in Court and in Law-School doing as well as I
                                    could, but very unfit for either.
                        Sun. 11. …
                        To day Judge Willson of the U.S. Circuit & District Courts at 
                                        Cleveland
                                    , died. I saw him last year. He was then a fine looking healthful man of
                                    about 60 years.
                        Mon. 12 to Sat. 17 This has been a hard week to me. I have held Court and taught Law
                                    School every day, and been every day too sick to do either. The time passes
                                    h[e]avily, gloomily.
                        Sun. 18. Sick. Kept my couch all day. Pains in my ankles and legs. Dizzy head.
                                    Nausea. How is this to end? The prospect is very sad. If I must adjourn my Court and
                                    give up my Law School, what shall I do? It would seem like "the last of
                                    earth."
                        Mon. 19 to Sat. 24. A severe week to me. Sick, sick.
                        I attempted on Monday & Tuesday to hold court and attend to my Law School,
                                    but could do neither. I lay on my back nearly all the week. …
                        Things seem very uncertain with me now. I commit soul and body to the author of my
                                    being.
                        
                        Mon. [Dec.] 3. …
                        In the afternoon, I attended our Law School, and lectured the students, and went home
                                    through the rain feeling almost well.
                        Fr. 7 Sat. 8. These days I spent in my usual way. Too sick to run about much, I lie
                                    on my back at home till after 12 o'clock. Then I walk to my rooms at the P.
                                    O. Building, hear my law students an hour or so, then walk home and lie on my back
                                    till bed time.
                        Mon. 10 Tues. 11 Wed. 12 Th. 13 Fr. 14 Sat. 15 It was cold all this week. And during
                                    it, I was engaged as usual in my law school, and lying at home on my couch somewhat
                                    sick, but seeming to grow a little better.
                        Tues. 18 to Sat. 22. These days were characterized by nothing remarkable as to me. I
                                    spent the most part of each home on my couch, but every afternoon, and twice after
                                    night, either lecturing my law students or hearing them recite. …
                        Wed. 26 to Sat. 29. I have been holding Court these days; but not trying any
                                    important cases. It is a very cold spell of Weather.
                        Mon. 31. Held Court all this day.
                        And here the year closes! I record the fact that, for the mercies of the Deity to me
                                    and mine in things both temporal and spiritual, I have great occasion for
                                    thankfulness. To him be all the glory! Amen!
                        January, 1867.
                        Tues. 1. …
                        And now as I begin another year, which may last longer than my mortal life, I humbly
                                    would pray the Great Author of my being to help me to spend so much of this year as
                                    I may live to see under his gracious guidance and protection and above all things
                                    that I be preserved from the slavery of sin. Amen! Amen!
                        
                        Wed. 2. At my Law School at 8 Am. [sic] And held Court from 10 A.
                                    M. to 4 P. M. …
                        Fr. 4 Sat. 5. Engaged daily in Court and in my Law School. Every thing seems to be
                                    going right again, thanks to God!
                        Tues. 8 Wed. 9 Th. 10. I passed these days in my law school and holding
                                    court—employed every day from 8.30 A. M. to about 4 P. M., and dining
                                    between 4 and 5. And every day I am regaining health.
                        Fr. 11 Sat. 12 These days I spent in my Law School and in the U.S. Court, trying a
                                    patent right case, which we did not finish.
                        Mon. 14 To Sat. 19. This week I spent in my usual round of business. I closed the
                                    business of my Court for the present, adjourning over to the 31st for the
                                    accommodation of counsel; and daily with my law students.
                        Fr. [Feb.] 8. As usual, in my dull rounds. I have news to-day that Congress is likely
                                    to raise my salary to $4,000. I think it will be done. So mote it be!
                        Tu. [Mon.] 11 to Th. 14. I had my usual round in my law school these days, with
                                    nothing special occurring.
                        Fr. 15 Sat. 16. The time passes heavily. I am tired of my Law School, and wish it
                                    ended. …
                        Mon. [25] to Th. 28. These days closed our law session. We ended on Monday night, at
                                    which time I delivered diplomas and an address to the graduating, 14 in number.
                        Mon. [March] 4 Tues. 5 Wed. 6 Th. 7 Fr. 8 Sat. 9 This was, in various ways, a bad
                                    week to me. The weather was bad. My health was bad. I had nothing special to do; and
                                    so I loitered away the time. One good piece of luck indeed I supose [sic] I have: I suppose it is certain that Congress has raised my salary to
                                        $4000.66 But what is even this with the disease I
                                    suffer, if fatal?
                        
                           
                              66 McDonald's optimism was not justified.
                        
                        
                        Mon. 11 A rainy, snowy day. It makes me sick, sick, sick.
                        To day the adjourned session of my court begins. Nothing, however, was done.
                        Tues. 12 Another awful day of rain & snow. I held the Court in the afternoon.
                                    …
                        Wed. 13. …
                        Held Court all day. Entered on the investigation of the everlasting case of Fay vs.
                                    Cobb.
                        Mon. 18 Tues. 19 I spent these days in court hearing a squabble over divers
                                    depositions in the case of Fay et al. vs. Cobb et al.
                        Wed. 20 To day the Fay & Cobb case was continued, and the Court ended.
                        Tues. 26. …
                        To-day Robert L. Walpole, a lawyer of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , died—cause drunkenness. He was utterly
                                    illiterate—unlearned in the law—coa[r]se and rude in
                                    man[n]ers—full of fraud and cunning—oppressive to his
                                    clients—a knave, a liar, a fool, and for 12 years past opposed to all
                                    that is good.67
                        
                        Sat. [Aug.] 17. From the 16th of April last to this date, I have suffered so much
                                    from my spinal disease, and was during nearly all the time so much afflicted in my
                                    nerves, as to make it very difficult for me to write. So, during that period, I have
                                    made no daily notes of occurrences.
                        About the first of April, it became evident that I could not hold my Spring Courts.
                                    Accordingly, I procured Judge [Samuel H.] Treat of Ill. to commence my Courts on the
                                    first Tuesday of May. He staid with us about two weeks. Then Judge Davis came and
                                    held the Court about two weeks. At the end of this time, I had so far recovered my
                                    health, as to be able to hold the Courts myself. And 
                              
                                 67 Walpole is given a similar description by William
                                            W. Woollen in Reminiscences of the Early 
                                                    Marion
                                                 County Bar (Indiana Historical Society
                                                Publications, Vol. VII; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1923), 201–203.
                           
                                     I stuck to it through May, June, and July, as
                                    occasion required, till the business was accomplished.
                        Tues. 20. …
                        In the afternoon, I held bankrupt Court—commenced trying a case of
                                    involuntary bankruptcy; and after hearing part of it, adjourned it over till
                                    tomorrow.
                        A sort of God-send has happened [to] me lately. The old case of Fellowes vs. 
                                        Evansville
                                     in which Porter & I were to get 5 percent on the amount
                                    recovered, and on which I never expected to get any thing, is settled at
                                    $96,000. I sold out my share to Porter for $800, of which he
                                    paid me $500. to day, and is to pay the rest Oct. 1. So I am in funds
                                    again.
                        Wed. 21 to Sat. 24. I passed these days pretty well. Spent most of the time at my
                                    rooms in the P. O. Building, engaged in official business.
                        Johnson has removed [Military Governor Philip H.] Sheridan from his post at N.
                                    Orleans, and is likely to remove others. These doings render it probable that Cong.
                                    will impeach him next Winter.
                        Sept. 1867. 
                                        Ill
                                    health prevented daily accounts of things during the last of August and
                                    this month. …
                        Sat. [Oct.] 5. I spent this fine day in my chambers preparing an opinion in a
                                    bankrupt case.
                        Now that I have so much leisure, how happy would I be if I had good health and a good
                                    conscience!
                        Tues. 8. This is the day of the general election. I cast my vote for the Republican
                                    candidates. I feel pretty well.
                        Wed. 9. …
                        It seems that the elections yesterday in 
                                        Ohio
                                     & Pa. have been favorable to the Democrats. In Pa. they have
                                    probably carried their ticket; and in 
                                        Ohio
                                     they have run the Unionists very close. All this is due to the foolish
                                    attempt by the Republicans to give the negros [sic] the right to
                                    vote.
                        
                        Th. 10. I spent this fine day in my study, enjoying fair health. Reed. my salary
                                    $843.75.
                        Mon. 21 to Sat. 26. I spent the week mostly in my study investigating legal
                                    questions, and enjoy pretty fair health. O! how sweet it is after so much as I have
                                    suffered the past 18 months, to find myself clear of it; and how thankful I ought to
                                    be to the Universal Father for it.
                        Tues. [Nov.] 5. To day the Fall term of our U.S. Courts begins. I empannel[le]d the
                                    grand Jury called the docket for motions, and adjourned till to morrow. We have a
                                    large docket—enough to take me till January. 0 for good health the next
                                    two months! But I begin bad; for I suffered with severe neuralgia in my right foot.
                        Wed. 6. Not well to day. Bad symptoms.
                        We commenced the trial of Parker et. al. vs. Ayles-worth this after noon.
                        Th. 7. Spent the whole day on the trial we began yesterday. It will probably hold us
                                    all this week, if not longer.
                        Bad political news to day. N. Y. has in her late election gone democratic very
                                    largely. It is probable that now the U.S. are democratic.
                        Fr. 8 Sat. 9. Engaged as yesterday; and the prospect is that the case on trial will
                                    take a week.
                        Mon. 10 to Sat. 16. Spent the solid week on the trial of Parker et al. v. Aylesworth.
                                    On Saturday night, the Jury found a verdict for plffs. for $3,000.
                        Mon 18 to Sat. 23. I spent this week in Court trying causes. Nothing has occurred
                                    during the time worth recording.
                        Mon. 25 to Sat. 30. I spent the entire week in Court. My health is daily improving. I
                                    trust now that my spinal disease and the consequent neuralgia are gradually fading
                                    out, and that I will finally get well.
                        Mon. [Dec.] 2 to Sat. 7. I spent this solid week in trying causes in Court.
                                    …
                        
                        Mon. 9 to Sat. 14. Spent this week, as last, every day in Court.
                        Mon. 16 to Sat. 21. I spent this entire week (except Saturday) holding court.
                                    …
                        Mon. 23 to Sat. 28. I held court some this week. But most of the time I was
                                    unemployed in that way.
                        Mon. 30 & Tues. 31. I spent these two days in Court, nothing occurring of
                                    importance.
                        January, 1868.
                        Wed. 1. Tis Newyears [sic] day. When last year began, I hardly
                                    deemed my life worth a year. But now, thanks to God! my health seems nearly
                                    restored. I am trying to resolve and pray that I may be better this year than last.
                                    O may it be so!
                        Th. 2. In court to day, hearing the argument in the chancery case of Davis &
                                    wife vs. 
                                        Campbell
                                     et al. It is a case about a transaction between the Shakers and James
                                    Price—Mrs. Davis' father [—] between 1803 &
                                    1817. In this case the deposition of Mrs. Delilah Whipple, 79 years old was read.
                                    She testifies how James Price came to join the Shakers at their town near 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , thus:
                        "James got sick, and became very much alarmed, thought he was going to die,
                                    told me and his wife he would die, said he felt a misery down in his side which was
                                    coming up toward his heart, and requested to have the Shakers sent for. They came.
                                    His brother Benjamin being one of them. But what they or he said or did, I know not;
                                    for I was not permitted to hear any thing they said. But I know that a part of what
                                    was done on that occasion was a Shaker Dance, and James got up and
                                    joined in their dance for some time; and then professed to be well, went home with
                                    his brother Ben., and after that never cohabited with his wife. Very shortly after
                                         this, his wife being in great pain and
                                    agony on account of his abandonment of her, was brought to bed and delivered of a
                                    girl child, Malinda, one of the complainants, about a month before her
                                    time."
                        Mon. 6 to Sat. 11. I spent these days in my usual round, holding Court, preparing
                                    judicial opinions &c. &c.
                        The Democrats, on the "glorious eighth",68 held
                                    their State convention, laid down their platform, and nominated their candidates for
                                    this year's campaign. I fear they will beat us this year. Their political
                                    success would, in my opinion, be an unspeakable national calamity.
                        Mon. 13 to Sat. 18. …
                        I have spent the week partly in my study, and partly in my house—very
                                    little in Court, though my Courts have not yet adjourned.
                        Mon. 20 to Sat. 25. Another cold week. I spent it mostly in my chambers preparing
                                    judicial decisions.
                        Th. [April] 2 to Sat. 4. I spent these days at my chambers, preparing decisions for
                                    next term of my Court.
                        Mon. 6 to Sat. 11. …
                        I spent the week in my chambers preparing decisions for next Court. And there
                                    occurred nothing during the time of any great consequence.
                        The main matter of public interest is the presidential impeachment now in progress.
                                    The probability seems strong that President Johnson will soon be removed from
                                    office.
                        Mon. 13. … I spent the day at my chambers making up a decision to be
                                    pronounced at next term of the Court 
                              
                                 68 Andrew Jackson defeated the British at the Battle
                                            of 
                                                New Orleans
                                             on January 8, 1815. Democrats frequently honored their great
                                            leader on this date, and the "glorious eighth" was a
                                            favored day for holding Democratic state conventions and other political
                                            meetings.
                           
                                     Tues. [May] 5. My Spring Courts open to day. I
                                    am alone[.] I empannelled and charged the grand Jury, rendered some judgments, and
                                    adjourned.
                        Wed. 6 to Sat. 9. These days I spent in Court. Judge Davis arrived on Wednesday and
                                    we sat together all the week.
                        Mon. 11 Sat. 16. Spent this entire week holding Court. Judge Davis was with us till
                                    Saturday morning when he started home.
                        On Saturday, we had news that President Johnson was acquitted on the impeachment
                                    trial.
                        Mon. 25 to Sat 30. I spent this week doing little in Court—suffering a
                                    good deal from my old complaint.
                        Mon. [June] 1 to Sat 6. Another rainy week. U.S. Court all the week. The bad weather
                                    makes my health bad.
                        Wed. [July] 1 to Sat. 4…
                        The "Glorious Fourth" was celebrated as usual by a general
                                    uproar—picnics—cannons
                                    firing—crackers—rockets—"trumpet, drum, and
                                    fiddle." In this country every holiday is desecrated by the most execrable
                                    rites. It is good luck we have few holidays—only Christmas and Fourth of
                                    July.
                        Mon. 20 to Sat 25. I spent this week solidly in my chamber at work at law matters.
                        Mon. 27 to Fri. 31. These days were not so hot. I spent them in my chambers preparing
                                    my manuscript judicial decisions for the press. It is a good deal of work, but I
                                    have now little else to do. So I have concluded that as soon as I get ready enough
                                    of my decisions to make a volume, I will publish them.69 But I
                                    fear that such steady sitting 
                              
                                 69 McDonald's only publication was A Treatise on the Law Relating to the Powers and Duties of
                                                Justice of the Peace and Constable, in the State of Indiana
                                            … (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1856).
                           
                                     and writing is unfavorable to my spinal
                                    disease—of late my back has been dreadfully sore, and has troubled me
                                    very much. It affects my breast and heart—a bad symptom. …
                        Mon. [Aug.] 3. A delightful cool day. I spent it in court. Began the trial of a case
                                    about the steamboat "Stone Wall Jackson".
                        To-day, after a provoking delay of 34 days, I received my quarter's salary,
                                    due July 1, $843.75.
                        Tues. 4 to Sat. 8 I spent these days at my chambers at work.
                        Mon. 31. A fine rain. I feel fine. I spent the day invest[igat]ing legal
                                questions.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Rendezvous with Republicanism: John Pope vs. Henry Clay in 1816
            
                    George T. Blakey
                    ∗
                
            About six miles west of 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , twenty-one men gathered inside John
                    Higbee's mill on July 20, 1816. The purpose of the meeting was to consider the political
                    canvass about to take place in 
                        Kentucky
                    's Second Congressional District—
                        Fayette
                    , Jessamine, and Woodford counties. This meeting had received advanced publicity, and
                    outside the mill there stirred a crowd of several hundred angry citizens.1
                    Inside the mill events proceeded without major drama or debate; the men resolved that "the
                    committee are deeply impressed with the importance of selecting a suitable candidate to be
                    recommended to the people for general support in opposition to Mr. Clay."2 The group, although not unanimously, then selected John Pope as the man to challenge Henry
                    Clay for his seat in the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives.3
            
            When the men inside Higbee's mill chose Pope to challenge 
                        Clay
                    , they unwittingly set the stage for a political dialectic more comprehensive than a
                    contested seat in the House of Representatives would indicate. The summer campaign presented a
                    microcosm of a larger political struggle that characterized other state and national campaigns
                    during 1816; Pope's battle with 
                        Clay
                     became a battle between the dying power of the Federalist party and the growing
                    monopoly of the Republican party and showed that political philosophies could be stronger than
                    personalities. Either by choice or association the two men served as spokesmen for separate
                    ideologies, one of which their constituents regarded with hostility and intolerance.
            "Who is John Pope?" demanded a belligerant broadside that appeared in 
                        Lexington
                     ten days following the Higbee Convention.4 The question was
                    rhetorical, for 
                        Kentucky
                     voters 
                  
                     ∗ George T. Blakey is a graduate student and teaching
                            assistant in history, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Reporter, July 24, 1816.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, Extra edition, July 23, 1816.
                  
                            3
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     4 Broadside, July 30, 1816, John McCalla Papers, University of West 
                                Virginia
                             Library, Morgantown.
               
                     knew well this veteran of western politics who had been a state
                    legislator and for six years 
                        Kentucky
                    's senior senator in 
                        Washington
                    .5 They also knew that the political broadside was not just making
                    biographical inquiries but was instead probing Pope's political background for campaign
                    issues.
            Controversies surrounded the name of Pope, making him a well-known, if not qualified, opponent of 
                        Clay
                    . The semisecret nominating procedures at Higbee's offered witness to the
                    unorthodox methods of the first and only man ever seriously to campaign against 
                        Clay
                     in a congressional race.6 The campaign itself would emphasize the
                    unorthodox qualities of Pope's background, and 
                        Clay
                    's supporters would use Pope's political irregularities as major
                    issues. 
                        Clay
                     soon found it to his advantage to exploit the incongruities in Pope's history
                    rather than to wage a defensive battle.
            Pope's early career bore a remarkable similarity to that of 
                        Clay
                    . Both were natives of 
                        Virginia
                     and had migrated to 
                        Kentucky
                     as youths; both had studied law and practiced their profession in a new and relatively
                    untamed state; both had early entered state politics.7 Pope also shared with 
                        Clay
                     the gift of eloquence and persuasiveness. 
                        Clay
                    's effective use of legal and political oratory prompted Justice Joseph Story
                    to write, "Clay has argued before us with a good deal of ability; and if he were not a
                    candidate for higher office, I should think he might attain eminence at this Bar."8 Pope lacked the physical presence of 
                        Clay
                     due to a childhood accident that had necessitated the amputation of one arm just above
                    the elbow. But this handicap did not deter him from forceful argumentation. The sight of him pacing
                    across a speaker's platform with his arm stump flailing had become a familiar one.
                    According to one observer, "when in debate and fully roused, he was
                        unapproachable."9
            
            Pope was also unapproachable in his opinion of his own abilities. Following his short career in the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature, 
                  
                     5 Orval W. Baylor, "The Life and Times of John Pope,
                            1770–1845," The Filson Club History Quarterly, XV
                            (April, 1941), 60–61. See also The Biographical Encyclopedia of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1878), 207.
                  
                     6 Clement Eaton, Henry Clay and the Art of American
                                Politics (
                                Boston
                            , 1957), 78–79.
                  
                     7 Baylor, "Life and Times," 60–61, and
                            Glyndon G. Van Deusen, The Life of Henry Clay (
                                Boston
                            , 1937), 17–18, 33–34.
                  
                     8 Quoted in 
                                Van
                             Deusen, Life of Henry Clay, 29.
                  
                     9 Lucius P. Little, Ben Hardin: His Times and
                                Contemporaries (
                                Louisville
                            , 1887), 250.
               
                     that body elected him to the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1806. A few months after he took office in 
                        Washington
                    , he wrote to a friend: 
                  
                     
                        I have embarked in political life and mean to make a business of it. I occupy much
                                    higher ground here both on the scale of talents and republicanism than either you or
                                    myself expected; except Breckinridge no man from the West ever had more popularity
                                    in Congress.10
                        
                     
                  
                Whether due to his popularity or his ability as a legislator, Pope's colleagues
                    elevated him to the position of president pro tempore in 1811, an honor rare for first-term
                        senators.11
            
            
               
                        Clay
                     first entered national politics when his friends in the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature elected him in 1806 to fill a senator's unexpired term. He
                    repeated this brief assignment from 1810–1811 when another 
                        Kentucky
                     senator's chair fell vacant.12 When the Twelfth Congress
                    convened in November, 1811, 
                        Clay
                     entered a new career in the House of Representatives; and Pope found his former
                    senatorial colleague now firmly ensconced as speaker, a position seldom given to first-term
                        representatives.13 Although beginning his political career in the Senate, 
                        Clay
                     achieved his first fame in the House.
            Pope's and 
                        Clay
                    's rapid rise to political prominence resulted partly from their obvious
                    ability and ambition and partly from the growing influence of 
                        Kentucky
                     and other western states in national affairs. Although their political paths often
                    crossed while they served together in Congress, few records exist concerning their personal contacts
                    or the differences of opinion that must have occurred regarding their divergent votes. Not until the
                    summer of 1816 did their policy clashes become fully apparent to 
                        Kentucky
                     voters. When Pope emerged from Higbee's Convention to challenge 
                        Clay
                    , the revelation of past differences and the recording of 
                  
                     10 John Pope to Ninian Edwards, January 9, 1808, in E. B. Washburn
                            (ed.), The Edwards Papers; Being a Portion of the Collection of the Letters,
                                Papers, and Manuscripts of Ninian Edwards (
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Historical Society Collection, Vol. III; 
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 34. Edwards had been a close associate of Pope before becoming governor
                            of 
                                Illinois
                             Territory and later senator from 
                                Illinois
                            . The Breckinridge to whom Pope refers was John Breckinridge, a perennial 
                                Kentucky
                             politician and President Jefferson's attorney general.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 35, and Orval Baylor, John Pope, Kentuckian
                            (Cynthiana, Ky., 1943), 74.
                  
                     12 Bernard Mayo, Henry Clay, Spokesman of the New
                            West (
                                Boston
                            , 1937), 244, 343.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Van
                             Deusen, Life of Henry Clay, 77.
               
                     new ones became a part of written history. And these
                    differences, no matter how unrelated, became the materiel in the battle between Federalism and
                    Republicanism.
            
               
                        Clay
                     had unknowingly set the stage for his campaign on March 7, 1816, when he spoke in favor
                    of a proposed bill to raise congressional salaries. 
                        Clay
                     pointed out that even though his salary as speaker of the House was twice that of his
                    colleagues, he still could "not make ends meet." Concluding his speech advocating
                    this Compensation Act, he vowed to cast his "most decided vote for the bill."14 In doing so, he helped to pass the bill and at the same time created a storm
                    of public protest.
            Congressmen who had only wanted to earn more than six dollars per day found themselves receiving
                    abuse from their constituents and from organized protest movements. The editor of the Argus of Western America in 
                        Frankfort
                     wrote, "In 
                        Kentucky
                    , particularly, it has excited much controversy, and produced an opposition to some men
                    whose popularity might have been supposed invulnerable."15 Amos
                    Kendall, who edited the 
                        Georgetown
                    
                    
                        
                            Patriot
                        
                     in the county bordering 
                        Clay
                    's 
                        Fayette
                     County, saw the issue even more sharply. He noted in his private journal, "It
                    seems a great ferment is raised in 
                        Fayette
                     … with regard to the Compensation Bill, and Mr. Clay is likely to have a
                        competitor."16
            
            Attempting to justify his vote for the bill, 
                        Clay
                     explained to his constituents later that summer the necessity for the salary raise. He
                    pointed out that living expenses in 
                        Washington
                     in 1816 were double those in 
                        New York City
                     at the time the original pay scale had been determined in the late eighteenth century.
                    The Compensation Bill had raised the salary of congressmen to meet the rising cost of living, and
                    the new salaries of $1,500 per session would be paid in a lump sum rather than allotted
                    at the old six dollars per day. This lump sum, Clay said, only made the amount seem excessive; if
                    broken down into daily amounts, it would equal only about ten dollars or so per day.17 He continued his analysis 
                  
                     14
                            Annals of Congress, 14 Cong., 1 Sess., 1174–75.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Argus of Western America, June 28, 1816.
                  
                     16 William Stickney (ed.), The Autobiography of Amos
                                Kendall (
                                Boston
                            , 1872), 172.
                  
                     17 James F. Hopkins (ed.), The Papers of Henry Clay
                            (3 vols., 
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1961), II, 219.
               
                     by commenting on the major point of public
                    disapproval—that Congress had made the pay raise retroactive to the previous year, thus
                    granting each congressman an additional $1,500 for the 1815 session. 
                        Clay
                     admitted that this extension had met with disfavor in all parts of the country. He
                    confessed that "we have sinned, we have been guilty of indelicacy in
                    making the law retrospective. …"18
            
            Many Kentuckians charged 
                        Clay
                     with more than indelicacy. The Western Monitor, a 
                        Lexington
                     newspaper, demanded that citizens take a closer look at these representatives who were
                    "mercenary and encroaching; selfish and insensible to shame."19 Tabulating that the speaker's salary would double the regular
                    congressman's pay and would be supplemented with an additional double allotment from the
                    previous session, readers arrived at a total of $6,000 that Clay would take from the
                    public treasury in 1816. The Western Monitor molded these figures into an
                    indictment that ended, "Is this not the potter shaping the clay to his own will and
                        purpose?"20 From time to time this paper also reprinted stanzas of
                    a current ditty that asked: 
                        O! Wont you hear
                        What roaring cheer
                        Was spent by Johnny Congress O!
                        And how so gay
                        They doubled their pay
                        And doubled the people's taxes O!
                        There was 
                                Clay
                             in the Chair
                        With his flax-coloured hair,
                        A signing tax bills cheerily O!
                        And smiled as the rabble
                        So lowly did gabble
                        And the Salary bill was carried O!21
                  
                    
            
            An anti-
                        Clay
                     attack from the Western Monitor would not have surprised many
                    Kentuckians in 1816, for this paper had gained a reputation for opposing President
                    Madison's Republican administration. 
                        Clay
                     need not have worried about 
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     19
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, June 7, 1816.
                  
                            20
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., August 23, 1816.
                  
                     22 Baylor, "Life and Times," 62.
               
                     its criticism; his concern should have been, and doubtless was,
                    directed to the proceedings at Higbee's mill on July 20. This meeting of twenty-one men
                    recalled Pope from political retirement, sent him into serious battle against 
                        Clay
                    , and thus changed the political complexion of the campaign. Since his Senate term had
                    expired in 1813, Pope had resumed his 
                        Lexington
                     law practice and had taught law at Transylvania University.22 Now
                    Higbee's Convention had chosen to reactivate his skills of persuasion to further its own
                    goals.
            The announced motives of Higbee's Convention seemed clear and definite. The resolutions
                    which appeared with Pope's nomination indicated that the attending delegates, being
                    discontent with the Compensation Act, intended to support a candidate who would work for its repeal.
                    They advocated the principle of rotation in office because "long continuance in public life
                    is apt to corrupt the purest patriots."23 These resolutions gave no
                    clue, however, as to the manner in which the convention had come about or who had been responsible
                    for it.
            One of the first public notices concerning the convention appeared in the anti-
                        Clay
                    
                    Western Monitor on June 21 as a short news item. This story reported a meeting
                    conducted earlier in the spring by two 
                        Kentucky
                     militia units under Captains Lewis Faulkner and William Sullivan. From this meeting had
                    come a proposal that each military district in 
                        Fayette
                    , Woodford, and Jessamine counties select two delegates to attend a convention at
                    Higbee's mill. These delegates would nominate a candidate to oppose 
                        Clay
                     and would pledge themselves to support this candidate in the August election.24
            
            
               
                        Clay
                    , if not the general public, knew of the convention long before the Western
                        Monitor's announcement. He confided to a friend on March 25: 
                        Nothing, certainly, can be more revolting and monstrous than that a militia company should
                            pledge itself (as parts of Faulkner's and Sullivan's in this county have
                            done) to support any candidate (whom they know not) that may be designated by a caucus at
                            Higbies [sic] composed of persons of whom also they are ignorant. It is
                            giving up that greatest right of freedom, the elective franchise.25
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     23
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, Extra edition, July 23, 1816.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, June 21, 1816.
                  
                     25 Henry Clay to Willis Field, March 25, 1816, in Hopkins, Papers of Henry Clay, II, 181.
               
                    
                    
                        Clay
                     continued by suggesting that other militia companies should meet and pass resolutions
                    condemning the Higbee plan.26
            
            Whether 
                        Clay
                    's suggestion served as the catalyst is unknown, but he soon received a
                    reaction that more than fulfilled his wishes. Captain John McCalla of the 
                        Lexington
                     Light Artillery Company published a resolution that his men had formulated. It declared
                    their refusal to participate in any semi-secret and unofficial scheme that would bind a company to
                    vote for a candidate chosen by a "military cabal."27
            
            The Western Monitor fired an immediate volley of protest at Captain
                    McCalla's Light Artillery Company and at the same time revealed its political allegiance.
                    This anti-
                        Clay
                     paper rebutted the charges that Higbee's Convention was a military cabal; it
                    was instead the outpouring of public sentiment that had "appointed delegates to unite, nominate a candidate, and recommend him to the people."
                    Military districts, and not military companies, were asked to choose delegates because these
                    districts comprised logical and geographical divisions of the three counties.28
                    An avid 
                        Clay
                     newspaper, the 
                        Lexington
                    
                    Reporter, joined the fray by asking the Western Monitor,
                    "do the editors … expect to palm on the community the scheme of assembling at
                    Higbee's as a scheme of THE PEOPLE? … It seems to be a monstrous and deformed
                    brat … cast into society, without parentage."29 Whatever the
                    true origin of the convention, it prompted a month long debate among the district's three
                    major newspapers. While the pro-Pope Western Monitor paraded weekly lists of
                    citizens' delegates to the convention, the pro-
                        Clay
                    
                    Reporter and 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette continued to picture the meeting as a farce directed by Pope and a
                    destruction of voting freedom.30
            
            Proving neither that the Higbee meeting was to be an open convention nor a closed cabal, the
                    newspaper debate did succeed in advertising the underlying purpose of the delegates and in forcing
                    the results to be made public one week 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 182.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette, July 1, 1816.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, July 5, 1816.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Reporter, July 10, 1816.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, June 28, July 5, 1816; 
                                Lexington
                            
                            Reporter, July 17, 1816.
               
                     before they were a reality. To squelch the growing wave of
                    rumors that his nomination was a foregone conclusion, Pope formally disavowed any design on his part
                    to dominate or control the meeting. He said that he considered Higbee's a free forum of the
                    people; and if given an obvious mandate there, he would postpone his political retirement and
                    campaign against the Compensation Act.31
            
            Since Pope's nomination seemed assured, judging by the number of his active supporters who
                    were delegates, the conclave at Higbee's only served to formalize the act. One day before
                    the meeting, the Western Monitor set the tone for the anti-
                        Clay
                     resolutions that accompanied Pope's nomination. It asserted, "we do
                    not wish to banish Mr. Clay forever from our public counsels, but we do think it
                    important that he should feel the indignation of an offended people."32
            
            Considering the hundreds of angry citizens who gathered outside Higbee's to protest the
                    convention, Pope probably felt as much public indignation as the Western Monitor
                    had wished upon 
                        Clay
                    . The following day the 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette chided the "formidable phalanx" of twenty-one
                    delegates who could muster only seventy-five per cent of their number (15 of 21) to sanction
                    Pope's candidacy. It also pointed out that of the fifty militia districts in the three
                    counties only eleven had sent delegates to the meeting.33 Was this a public
                    mandate, Amos Kendall asked in his 
                        Georgetown
                    
                    
                        
                            Patriot
                        
                    ? Were these fifteen men supposed to be the voice of public demand that would rouse Pope from
                    his political retirement?34
            
            Although the publicity from the poorly managed convention had not been as favorable as he had hoped,
                    Pope did capitalize on the money-conscious sentiment of his 
                        Kentucky
                     neighbors. Using the Higbee resolutions, which condemned the Compensation Act, he
                    sought to wage a battle of offence centering on this one issue; temporarily he succeeded because
                    opposition to the congressional pay raise continued to manifest itself in an anti-
                        Clay
                     reaction. One political broadside, appearing after the convention, railed against
                    "NOBILITY, NOBILITY, NOBILITY" in huge headlines and continued: 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette, July 15, 1816.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, July 19, 1816.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette, July 22, 1816.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Georgetown
                            
                            
                                
                                    Patriot
                                
                            , July 27, 1816.
               
                    
                    
                        Now my noble Lord 
                                Clay
                            , if you get the compensation doubled once more … you may vie with
                            the noble lords on the other side of the great water, from whom you have learnt your notions
                            of high salaries and splendid living.35
                  
                     This broadside envisioned 
                        Clay
                     raiding the public treasury even further so that he could ride in a fashionable
                    carriage drawn by his two horses, the 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette and the Reporter.
               36
            
            Pope rode the crest of this reaction, for it appeared to be gaining votes for his candidacy. Perhaps
                    the best known episode from the entire campaign concerned one of 
                        Clay
                    's perennial boosters who had defected to Pope's camp. 
                        Clay
                     encountered this former ally in 
                        Lexington
                     and questioned him about his intention to vote for Pope. The Irish friend answered,
                    paying tribute to Pope's physical handicap, "Och, Misther 
                        Clay
                    , I have concluded to vote for the man who has but one arm to sthrust into
                        the sthreasury."37
            
            Pope's real handicap in the summer of 1816 turned out to be his lack of more than one
                    durable issue. When 
                        Clay
                     grudgingly agreed to work for the repeal of the Compensation Act if reelected, he left
                    Pope without a major campaign tactic.38 Pope attempted to use the national bank
                    issue as a second line of attack, but this approach opened his own legislative record for 
                        Clay
                    's exploitation.
            
               
                        Clay
                    's relationship to the national bank had been a political issue for some years
                    and would continue to be so for many more. The irony of the bank issue in this campaign sprang from
                    the fact that Clay's vote for the second Bank of the 
                        United States
                     in 1816 coincided with the congressional majority and received public approval. Even
                    the anti-administration Western Monitor applauded the resurrection of the bank
                    although it condemned 
                        Clay
                     for his political inconsistency. While the paper approved of the congressman's
                    action, it explained that his vote directly contradicted the one he cast in 1811 against
                    rechartering the first Bank of the 
                        United States
                    .39
            
            
               
                  35 Broadside, circa July 30, 1816, McCalla Papers.
               
                        36
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  37 George W. Ranck, History of 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     
                   (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1872), 163.
               
                  38 Congress did repeal the act during the next session but in 1818 raised
                        the pay scale to eight dollars per day rather than the former six dollars per day. 
                            Van
                         Deusen, Life of Henry Clay, 114.
               
                  39
                        
                            Lexington
                        
                        Western Monitor, April 26, 1816.
            
            
            Antibank sentiment had run high in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1811, as it had in many other states. The legislatures of 
                  Virginia, Maryland,
                            Massachusetts
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     all had passed resolutions instructing their congressmen to oppose rechartering the
                    national bank. During congressional debates on the subject, 
                        Kentucky
                    's general assembly sent the following resolution to all of her legislators:
                    "Resolved … that our Senators and representatives in Congress be requested to
                    oppose a renewal of the character of the Bank of the 
                        United States
                    ."40
            
            Pope had differed with 
                        Clay
                     in 1811 and had voted for rechartering the ill-fated bank, defying 
                        Kentucky
                    's instructions. For this unpopular vote he had undergone much criticism. The
                        Western Monitor now pointed out that: 
                        The people of 
                                Kentucky
                             cannot so soon have forgotten the violent clamor that was
                            raised against it five years ago—how Mr. Pope was denounced and insulted for
                            approving the very thing which Mr. Clay now approves without receiving the slightest
                            censure. …41
                  
                     The campaign issue involved not just the bank itself but 
                        Clay
                    's ability to vote on both sides of the same question. The editors of the Western Monitor wanted to know "If Mr. Pope was in the wrong then, is Mr.
                    Clay in the right now?"42
            
            
               
                        Clay
                     obviously felt that he was right to reverse his vote. In a 
                        Lexington
                     speech explaining his legislative acrobatics he defended both votes as being the
                    correct thing to do at the time each was cast. Three factors had determined his negative vote in
                    1811: the first Bank of the 
                        United States
                     was abusing its powers and serving the private needs of the Federalist party; state
                    banks were capable of transacting national finances and revenue collection—hence the
                    national bank was unnecessary and therefore unconstitutional; and 
                        Kentucky
                    's legislature had instructed him to oppose the bank.43
            
            Other equally clear factors had dictated his affirmative vote in 1816. He pointed out that
                    approximately three hundred private banks, under no national or state control, were rendering the
                    national currency worthless. The fluctuating 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Reporter, March 3, 1811.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, April 26, 1816.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., March 29, 1816.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette, June 10, 1816.
               
                     value of money from one state to the next and the suspension of
                    specie payments on bank notes made the problem apparent. In light of these circumstances, partly
                    caused by the War of 1812, 
                        Clay
                     felt that creation of the second Bank of the 
                        United States
                     was proper and "not only necessary, but indispensably necessary."44 The Reporter repeated his logic and agreed that the
                    changing economic situation had made the vote reversal not only acceptable but commendable.45
            
            Unsatisfied with 
                        Clay
                    's explanation of this policy change, the Western Monitor
                    reprinted in full his 1811 congressional speech which attacked the bank. Within the text of the
                    speech the editors italicized and set in bold type each argument that Clay had reversed in his 1816
                    speech supporting the bank. The sections which discussed the unconstitutionality of the early bank
                    received particular attention. The editors noted that Clay could change at the slightest whim; but
                    the Constitution remained constant, thus implying that Clay had taken great liberties with the
                    Constitution to suit his own purposes.46
                    
                        Clay
                    's sympathetic biographer, Glyndon G. Van Deusen, maintains that this charge of
                    constitutional juggling contained much validity. He states that Clay based his 1811 vote on an
                    extremely strict interpretation of the Constitution and that this action returned to haunt him like
                    Banquo's ghost.47
            
            During the summer campaign 
                        Clay
                     found that it better suited his purposes to de-emphasize the constitutional subtleties
                    of the bank issue and to switch the bulk of public attention from his bank votes to that of Pope in
                    1811. 
                        Clay
                     told a 
                        Lexington
                     audience at the start of the campaign that the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature had instructed him to oppose the bank; 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid. This 
                                Lexington
                             speech, delivered on June 3, 1816, is generally accepted to be the same one 
                                Clay
                             gave in Congress supporting the passage of the bank bill in March of the same
                            year. However, the speech was not inserted in the Annals of Congress until
                            a later date.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Reporter, June 19, 1816. Economic historians agree with 
                                Clay
                            's appraisal of the 1816 banking crisis. Davis R. Dewey relates that
                            virtually worthless state bank notes increased from $45,000,000 in 1812 to
                            $100,000,000 in 1817, and the national government lost over $5,000,000
                            by accepting state payments in poor notes. Another $7,000,000 drained from the
                            national treasury when foreign investors withdrew their funds after the dissolution of the
                            first Bank of the 
                                United States
                            . Financial History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (4th. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1912), 144–45.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Western Monitor, April 26, 1816.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Van
                             Deusen, Life of Henry Clay, 68.
               
                     although he had done so, Pope had voted contrary to
                    instruction, the only Kentuckian to do so. 
                        Clay
                     added, "I hold instruction binding when given to a Senator by the legislature
                    of the State. …"48 By asking 
                        Kentucky
                    's voters to recall this episode and to consider its anti-Republican nature, 
                        Clay
                     reopened one of the most controversial incidents in Pope's career. He thus
                    hoped to reactivate the opposition that had been directed against Pope in 1811.
            Kentuckians that year had not been very receptive to hearing Pope's reasons for voting for
                    the rechartering of the bank. Other than printing his congressional speech in the 
                        Frankfort
                    
                    Palladium, Pope had little chance to reveal his motives for defending the bank. An
                    analysis of Pope's 1811 bank speech reveals a liberal constitutional interpretation, a
                    defense of the bank as a stable institution, and a prediction that financial chaos would result if
                    banking were turned over to the states. He asserted that he had cast his vote in good conscience to
                    protect the agrarian economy of 
                        Kentucky
                    .49
            
            More interested in Pope's good conduct than his good conscience, Kentuckians demanded to
                    know why he had violated instruction rather than why he had supported the bank. In an open letter
                    published in the Palladium Pope explained his case. He related that not until one
                    and one half hours before he delivered his speech in Congress did the 
                        Kentucky
                     instructions arrive. By then he had already arranged support for the bank and could not
                    readily reverse his stand.50 With this moderate and almost conciliatory
                    explanation, Pope probably could have avoided the wrath of his constituents. He chose, however, to
                    assert his independence and ended his open letter with the statement that "I acted under a
                    conviction that the Legislature had no constitutional power to direct my conduct."51
            
            Pope's vote and assertion of independence won for him a barrage of criticism. The 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette said that he had "wantonly violated" his state and
                    "deceived the people."52
                    
                  
                     48 Hopkins, Papers of Henry Clay, II, 216.
                  
                     49
                            Annals of Congress, 11 Cong., 3 Sess., 219–40. Reprinted later
                            in the 
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Palladium, April 6, 1811. Financial historian Bray 
                                Hammond
                             implies that Pope probably did cast a conscious vote to protect the economy of 
                                Kentucky
                             because Pope felt that interior and poor states would be dominated by eastern
                            bankers should the national bank be discontinued. Bray 
                                Hammond
                            , Banks and Politics in America from the Revolution to the Civil
                                War (
                                Princeton
                            , N. J., 1957), 216.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Palladium, June 22, 1811.
                  
                            51
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     52
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette, March 28, 1811.
               
                     The Reporter carried a long series of abusive
                    letters and climaxed them with a demand for Pope's resignation from the Senate.53 From the 
                  
                            Delaware
                         Watchman came an often reprinted editorial that stated: "Whether Mr.
                    Pope fancies himself dead or not, we do not know. It is certain, however, that he is politically
                    damned and the sooner he is scared off to the woods the better. The Kentuckians will take care the
                    maniac is not re-elected when his constitutional term expires."54
            
            Pope's senatorial term following the banking vote fiasco contained two more years in which
                    he underwent an almost identical crisis. The Twelfth Congress found him casting an unpopular vote
                    against the War of 1812. By doing this he defied his state's instructions again, endured an
                    increased barrage of criticism, and in the end, supplied another issue which 
                        Clay
                     used effectively in 1816.
            War spirit in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1812 seems to have been an aggressive combination of swaggering arrogance and
                    euphoric optimism. 
                        Clay
                     reflected this militant spirit during one of his brief terms in the Senate. There, as
                    early as 1810, he informed Congress that although war need not be inevitable with Britain at the
                    moment, "The conquest of 
                        Canada
                     is in your power. I trust I shall not be deemed presumptuous when I state …
                    that the militia of 
                        Kentucky
                     are alone competent to place 
                        Montreal
                     and Upper 
                        Canada
                     at your feet."55
            
            Echoes of such chauvinism reverberated in the halls of 
                        Kentucky
                    's general assembly. Six months before the Senate debates on war, the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislators passed a resolution favoring a new conflict with 
                        England
                    . This declaration promised that "the state of 
                        Kentucky
                    , to the last mite of her strength and resources, will contribute them to maintain the
                    contest and support the right of their country … and that the citizens of 
                        Kentucky
                     are prepared to take the field when called on."56
                    
                        Kentucky
                     newspapers amplified these sounds of war sentiment and mobilized them into a demand for
                    action. The 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette typified other press reactions when it demanded war and asked,
                    "What will our Congress say?"57
            
            
               
                  53
                        
                            Lexington
                        
                        Reporter, March 9, 30, 1811.
               
                  54 Reprinted in 
                            Lexington
                        
                        
                     
                                Kentucky
                             Gazette, March 26, 1811.
               
                  55
                        Annals of Congress, 11 Cong., 2 Sess., 580.
               
                  56
                        Nile's Weekly Register, I (January 11, 1812), 337–38.
               
                  57
                        
                            Lexington
                        
                        
                     
                                Kentucky
                             Gazette, May 26, 1812.
            
            
            Thanks to a new flock of War Hawks, the lower house of Congress said "war."
                    Historians disagree on the influence and membership of the War Hawk group, but most agree that
                    Clay's role in the passage of the war bill was substantial. "More than any other
                    individual," Clement Eaton says, "Harry of the West was responsible" for
                    getting the measure accepted.58
            
            Despite a substantial 79 to 49 vote for war in the House,59 the Senate showed
                    reluctance to commence hostilities with Britain. Pope, in particular, played an instrumental role in
                    the Senate's two weeks of delaying action. Pope and Thomas Worthington from 
                        Ohio
                     attempted to halt the bill by proposing that 
                        France
                     be included as a belligerent and that the Non-Importation Acts be repealed.60 Pope also tried to stall the declaration by amending its phraseology.61 Nevertheless, on June 18, the Senate passed the war declaration, 19 to 13,
                    with Pope on the side of the minority.62
            
            "The news of war was hailed as a second decree of Independence in 
                        Kentucky
                    ,"63 and Pope's vote was hailed as a second
                    declaration of war on his constituents. In 1811 he had defied instructions and favored an unpopular
                    bank; in 1812 he had again defied instructions and opposed a popular war. For this, he received an
                    immediate censure by his fellow citizens. In 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                        Frankfort
                     while cannons helped to celebrate the war declaration, Pope's effigy burned in
                    Nicholasville and Mount Sterling. On two successive nights irate Lexingtonians paraded an effigy of
                    Pope through the streets and then burned it in "unrestrained indignation."64
            
            
               
                        Clay
                    , of course, made effective use of these two episodes in Pope's career. By
                    reactivating these old issues he tapped a reservoir of existing opposition to Pope and channeled it
                    into new hostilities. A great number of broadsides, newspaper letters, and editorials appeared
                    during the summer campaign, all referring to Pope's vote for a
                    "Federalist" bank and his 
                  
                     58 Eaton, Henry Clay, 25–26; Julius W.
                            Pratt, Expansionists of 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1925), 48–49.
                  
                     59 U.S., Journal of the House of Representatives, 12
                            Cong., 1 Sess., VIII, 469.
                  
                     60 Mayo, Henry Clay, Spokesman of the West, 514.
                  
                     61 U.S., Journal of the Senate, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            V, 156.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 162.
                  
                     63
                            Nile's Weekly Register, II (July 18, 1812), 335.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Reporter, July 1, 1812; 
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Palladium, July 15, 1812.
               
                     refusal to accept legislative instruction. One such broadside
                    reexamined how Pope had "disregarded and treated with contempt the most solemn voice of the
                    people" on the bank and war measures.65 Pope's entanglement
                    with unpopular votes offered damaging evidence for his opponents to use against him, for these votes
                    supplied a direct link with the harmful issue, Federalism. 
                        Kentucky
                     had for some time been a strongly Republican state and tended to regard most national
                    issues along party lines. Following the War of 1812, 
                        Kentucky
                     party allegiances had been almost unanimously Republican. According to one political
                    biographer the Federalist party had nearly gone out of existence, but its very name was still odious
                    in the West. "
                        Kentucky
                     was overwhelmingly anti-Federalist in sentiment. … "66
            
            The usual 
                        Kentucky
                     voter indiscriminately associated the first Bank of the 
                        United States
                     and the war opponents with Federalism; and the abortive 
                        Hartford
                     Convention served to heighten the anti-patriotic, eastern, aristocratic image that
                    stereotyped most members of the Federalist party. This tendency to associate voting habits with
                    party membership eventually led to the incorrect, but indelible, matching of Pope with Federalism.
                    In 1816, 
                        Clay
                    's supporters charged him with the combined crimes of all Federalists as is
                    illustrated by a campaign broadside which stated, "On the subject of war, Mr. Pope not only
                    identified himself with the Federalists, but advanced and supported the same doctrines by which the
                    choice spirits of the 
                        Hartford
                     Convention deceived the people into an open revolt against the government."67
            
            Another broadside continued this collective indictment of Pope by recalling that he had quoted
                    Federalist Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                     in defense of the first bank. According to the campaign account, Pope had
                    "eulogized Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                     to the skies. …"68 The Reporter argued that while Pope was "at heart and in truth a federalist, he labors to
                    disguise his real character, and to assume the mask of republicanism."69 Another pious broadside prayed that if Pope were a Republican, 
                  
                     65 Broadside, circa July 30, 1816, McCalla Papers.
                  
                     66 Little, Ben Hardin, 247–48.
                  
                     67 Broadside, "To the Republicans," Summer, 1816,
                            McCalla Papers.
                  
                     68 Broadside, circa July 30, 1816, McCalla Papers.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                            Reporter, July 24, 1816.
               
                     "good Lord, deliver us from such Republicanism."70
            
            Pope found it nearly impossible to clear himself from these charges. Although he had worked closely
                    with 
                        Madison
                    's Republican administration on most measures, his legislative record on
                    certain issues placed him so dangerously close to the outcast Federalists that the distance between
                    membership and friendship became indistinguishable during the campaign. Perhaps the most damaging
                    example of this power of association concerned Pope's relationship to the hated Alien and
                    Sediton Acts. Pope had not been a member of the state legislature in 1798 when the 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     Resolutions were passed to condemn these Federalist laws; he had taken a seat the
                    following year when the Second 
                        Kentucky
                     Resolutions passed, strengthening the original resolutions with a vague threat of
                        nullification.71 Pope voted against these second resolutions to his later
                    regret; for as one historian observed, "If 
                        Kentucky
                     ever had political gods, those same resolutions may be thus classed."72
            
            In a seemingly desperate attempt to divorce himself from the Alien and Sedition Acts, Pope issued a
                    series of explanatory broadsides during the final week of the 1816 campaign. In them he declared,
                    "I do most positively deny that I ever defended those laws." He stated that he had
                    voted against the Second 
                        Kentucky
                     Resolutions only because he did not approve of the nullification remedy that would have
                    allowed 
                        Kentucky
                     to invalidate any obnoxious federal measures. If the single nullification clause had
                    been deleted, he would have been willing to support the rest of the resolution.73 But, the lingering implication of his vote pictured him as an advocate of the
                    Federalist-sponsored Alien and Sediton Acts. Those voters who were old enough to remember
                    Pope's stand in 1799 were old enough to remember 
                        Clay
                    's public address in 
                        Kentucky
                     one year earlier. A 
                        Lexington
                     crowd had gathered to hear a discussion of the recently passed Alien and Sedition Acts
                    when 
                        Clay
                     jumped upon a wagon and held the audience spellbound for almost an hour, denouncing
                    both the laws and the Federalists.74 This broad denunciation 
                  
                     70 Broadside, circa July 30, 1816, McCalla Papers.
                  
                     71 Ethelbert D. Warfield, The 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Resolutions of 1798, (2nd. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1894), 183.
                  
                     72 Little, Ben Han-din, 246.
                  
                     73 John Pope, Broadsides, July 30, August 5, 1816, McCalla Papers.
                  
                     74 Thomas D. Clark, A History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 153–54.
               
                     vied for attention in 1816 with Pope's subtle
                    distinctions on constitutional remedies.
            
               
                        Clay
                    's inconsistencies also vied for voter's attention in the final days
                    of campaigning. Among the flurry of last minute polemics, one Pope supporter published a broadside
                    that attempted to place 
                        Clay
                    's career in proper perspective. It lamented that "Mr. Clay, it seems
                    may do anything with impunity—He is a Republican. He may denounce a Bank today, and vote
                    for it tomorrow—He may put his hand into your public Treasury and carry off your money
                    contrary to the Constitution. Still he is Republican."75
            
            Both candidates, vowing that they were Republicans, agreed to meet for a public debate on July 31
                    outside Higbee's mill. This mill, which seemed to be a favorite assembly area for the
                    three-county district, played host to the only formal confrontation of the opponents. While the
                    controversial Higbee's Convention had received full newspaper coverage and is mentioned in
                    private correspondence, the supposedly climactic Higbee's debate received little or no
                    coverage. A probable explanation for this lapse in contemporary accounts is that the newspapers
                    appearing the following week carried the election returns; hence, the editors chose not to report
                    the final stages of campaigning when the votes had already been tabulated.
            Only one extensive account of the debate seems to have been recorded and that appeared fifteen years
                    after the event. George D. Prentice, a twenty-eight year old journalist, came to 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1830 commissioned by New 
                        England
                     Whigs to write a biography of 
                        Clay
                     for the 1832 presidential campaign.76 Prentice held several
                    conversations with 
                        Clay
                    , interviewed 
                        Clay
                    's friends and acquaintances around 
                        Lexington
                    , and briefly researched his subject before publishing the biography the following
                    year." The book lionized 
                        Clay
                     and maintained a dramatic tone that approached almost total romanticism. Prentice
                    reconstructed the Higbee debate as a battle of giants limited to thirty minutes of verbal jousting.
                        
                  
                     75 Broadside, August 1, 1816, McCalla Papers.
                  
                     76 Clark, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 340.
                  
                     77 George D. Prentice to Peter B. Porter, August 6, 1830, Henry Clay
                            Papers, Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . Some historians suspect that several chapters of the biography were written by
                            John Greenleaf Whittier. Different editions of the book also exist which contain different
                            versions of a few events. See Betty C. Congleton, "Prentice's Biography of
                            Henry Clay and John Greenleaf Whittier," The Filson Club History
                                Quarterly, XXXVII (October, 1963), 325–29.
               
                     Pope opened the exchange with a vigorous oration, then 
                        Clay
                     assumed the offensive.
            
                    [Pope] fell gradually back till he was pressed against the wall, and there his conqueror dealt
                        blow after blow upon his now naked and defenceless head, till the scene became intensely painful
                        to the spectators. Mr. Clay, finding that it would be inglorious to prolong the strife, turned
                        with dignity away from his fallen foe. …78
               
                
            The result of the campaign, if not the debate, did reveal a defeated Pope. Of the 4,330 votes cast, 
                        Clay
                     accumulated 2,493, or a majority of 656. He carried both 
                        Fayette
                     and Jessamine counties and lost Woodford by only 50 votes.79 The
                    ever-impatient Reporter dismissed the results with a terse, "Neither the
                    soil, atmosphere, nor climate of 
                        Kentucky
                     is adaptable to the propagation and growth of Federalism."80 Pope concurred with this analysis; he wrote to his friend Ninian Edwards that the seemingly
                    irrefutable and untrue charges of his sympathy to the Alien and Sedition Acts contributed most
                    heavily to his defeat.81
            
            The 1816 elections carried a new wave of Republicans into the so-called Era of Good Feelings in which
                    Federalism remained either dormant or dying. Rufus King, the unsuccessful presidential aspirant, was
                    the last candidate to campaign for the White House on a Federalist ticket; and in several states,
                    former Federalists conducted gubernatorial campaigns as new Republicans. Neither in state
                    legislatures nor in the national Congress could Federalists command a position of power, their poor
                    showing in the elections having further strengthened the general Republican majorities.82 The summer's dialectic between Pope and 
                        Clay
                     can be seen as a symbol of this nationwide trend. Whether Pope did harbor Federalist
                    tendencies made little difference. The fact that he had rubbed at least one elbow with Federalist
                    issues removed him permanently from 
                        Washington
                     politics.
            
               
                  78 George D. Prentice, Biography of Henry Clay (
                            New York
                        , 1831), 126–27. The devoted Western Monitor had
                        nothing to say about Pope's performance at the debate. Its only reaction was an
                        indignant comment about 
                            Clay
                        's rudeness at the meeting. 
                            Lexington
                        
                        Western Monitor, August 2, 1816.
               
                  79
                        
                            Lexington
                        
                        
                     
                                Kentucky
                             Gazette, August 12, 1816.
               
                  80
                        
                            Lexington
                        
                        Reporter, August 14, 1816.
               
                  81 John Pope to Ninian Edwards, August 18, 1816, in Washburn, The Edwards Papers, 127.
               
                  82 Shaw Livermore, Jr., The Twilight of Federalism: The
                            Disintegration of the Federalist Party, 1815–1830 (
                            Princeton
                        , N. J., 1962), 33, 40.
            
         
         
         
            Aids and Suggestions Regarding the Teaching of Indiana History
            
                    Hubert H. Hawkins
                    ∗
                
            The present teacher of Indiana history has a more substantial body of classroom materials at his
                    disposal than ever before. While some items have a nominal price, many are free; and in no case
                    should cost constitute a serious barrier. The discriminating use of these materials should
                    contribute to more effective teaching and a richer learning experience for the student. In 1966 the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau (140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                     46204), the state's historical agency, will distribute approximately half a
                    million pieces of such material. In most instances the Bureau provides materials to teachers in
                    classroom lots without charge other than a refund of postage; however, responses cannot be made to
                    requests from individual students.
            For the elementary student the Bureau has a series of fourth grade leaflets entitled: The First People in Indiana, The French in Indiana, Pioneer Living in Indiana, Travel in
                        Indiana Long Ago, and Good Times of Young Pioneers (four pages each,
                    illustrated). Leaflets concerning the emblems of Indiana, the state seal, bird, tree, flower, flag,
                    and motto (four color printing), are also available.
            The Bureau also has a number of items for the junior high student. These include: George
                        Rogers Clark, Chief Little Turtle, and William Henry Harrison (six pages
                    each, illustrated); the Frontier Rifle and the Conestoga Wagon
                    (four pages each, illustrated); The Whitewater Canal by Harry O. Garman (12 pages,
                    map); Indians of Indiana by Erminie Wheeler-Voegelin (six pages); and The Word "Hoosier" by Hubert H. Hawkins (three pages, illustrated). A Brief History of Indiana by Donald F. Carmony (64 pages), now in its sixth
                    edition, is a most useful basic booklet. The Bureau has also published Readings in
                        Indiana History by Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker (1956, 625 pages, cloth-bound,
                    $4.50). Mention should also be made of two "work 
                  
                     ∗ Hubert H. Hawkins is director of the Indiana Historical
                            Bureau and executive secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     maps" of Indiana printed on 10 1/2" x 14" paper. One
                    shows only the county boundaries; the other indicates the counties and the principal streams. The
                    maps are $1.00 per hundred postpaid.
            The Indiana Historical Society (140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                     46204) issues "A" Is for Axe—A
                        "First Reader" about some Indian Artifacts by Glenn A. Black (16 pages,
                    illustrated). This may be used with either elementary or junior high students. Indiana history
                    "grab bags" consisting of 65–75 items may be ordered from the Society
                    at $2.50 postpaid.
            The Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission published The Impact of the Civil War on
                        Indiana by John D. Barnhart (48 pages) and A Chronology of Indiana in the
                        Civil War, 1861–1865 edited by Ann Turner (150 pages). These two publications
                    are suitable for stronger junior high students and may be procured from the Bureau.
            The Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission has begun a series of booklets relating to Indiana history.
                    Three titles are now obtainable from the Commission (101 State Office Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                     46204): Handbook on Indiana History by Donald F. Carmony (77 pages),
                        Indiana's Road to Statehood by Hubert H. Hawkins (95 pages), and One Hundred and Fifty Years of Indiana Agriculture by Dave O. Thompson, Jr., and
                    William L. Madigan (74 pages). A few additional booklets, intended mainly for use by junior high
                    students, are anticipated before the series is completed.
            Two valuable sets of filmstrips concerning Indiana history have recently become available. During
                    1965 the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission distributed a set of twelve filmstrips, covering
                    Indiana history from the early Indian background to the present, which were produced by Richard H.
                    Caldemeyer and Byron P. Shurtleff of Ball State University, 
                  Muncie, Indiana
               . These filmstrips
                    were presented to school units having junior high level classes, both public and private, and also
                    to public libraries. Partly in color and partly in black and white, they are principally intended
                    for use at the junior high level, but they can be adapted to use in elementary classes. Early in
                    1966 the Jam Handy Organization  (2821 East Grand Boulevard,
                            
                  Detroit, Michigan
                48211) completed a set of six filmstrips concerning Indiana
                    history. These filmstrips, all in color, are chiefly intended for fourth and fifth grades, but they
                    may be adapted for junior high students. The Indiana Historical Society still has a limited number
                    of Civil War filmstrips in black and white available for sale. These titles are: Indiana in the Civil War, The Home Front and Indiana in the Civil War, The
                        Soldier in the Field ($5.00 per set).
            Many useful publications are particularly helpful to teachers in their continued study of Indiana
                    history. The Indiana Historical Collections (44 volumes), published by the Bureau;
                    the Indiana Historical Society Publications (22 volumes), issued by the Society;
                    the Indiana Magazine of History (61 volumes), published by the history department
                    of Indiana University; and the Indiana History Bulletin (42 volumes), published by
                    the Bureau, are rich resources. All four of these publications are continuing series, and the last
                    three of them are automatically available to members of the Indiana Historical Society. In 1965 Emma
                    Lou Thornbrough's Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880, as
                    Volume III of the Indiana Sesquicentennial History being prepared jointly by the Society and the
                    Bureau, was published. Four additional volumes are expected during the next few years, all of them
                    available without charge to members of the Indiana Historical Society.
            Additional items may be obtained from other sources such as the Department of Commerce and Public
                    Relations and the Department of Natural Resources. Outdoor Indiana, formerly a
                    publication of the Department of Natural Resources, contained many interesting history articles. The
                        Indiana Teacher has at times included informative history materials. Many
                    local historical societies have issued items of value as have chambers of commerce and business
                    firms.
            Teachers of Indiana history and school librarians are well advised to become collectors of relevant
                    pamphlets, pictures, maps, and books. Such collections have a continuing use. Teachers and
                    librarians are cordially invited to base their collections on materials received through membership
                    in the Indiana Historical Society.
            
            Teachers should also utilize other, non-printed resources. In every community there are knowledgeable
                    persons well versed in local history. Short talks by such persons can add enrichment and variety to
                    normal classroom instruction. Guest lecturers can often be procurred through the local historical
                    society. Almost every school is within convenient distance of a significant site, structure,
                    memorial, or museum. Occasional field trips to such points will add excitement and interest to
                    classroom instruction. With proper advance preparation visits to local museums or to the homes of
                    early Hoosiers, such as Benjamin Harrison, James F. D. Lanier, and Thomas Marshall, can become
                    meaningful learning experiences.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               George Rapp's Harmony Society, 1785–1847. By Karl J. R.
                    Arndt. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 1965. Pp. 682. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $12.00.)
            
               George Rapp's Harmony Society is a fascinating narrative of a people whose
                    determination to succeed found no obstacle on the American frontier impossible to conquer. At an
                    early age in 
                        Germany
                     their leader assembled schoolmates and persuaded them to do his chores while he climbed
                    a tree to edify them with his preaching. While Rapp's deep religious feeling revealed
                    itself by participation in private gatherings, his interest in these meetings was of short duration.
                    Moreover, since the formality of the established church service failed to satisfy his desire for
                    communion with Christ, he withdrew from it. Accordingly he expressed his views to friends and
                    rapidly attracted followers, who were referred to as Separatists.
            As their movement gained momentum, the authorities regarded the Separatists as a serious threat and
                    danger to the state. "I am a prophet and am called to be one" (p. 30), declared
                    George Rapp in June, 1791, when an official at Maulbronn, Württemberg, investigated his
                    activities and ordered him to be silent. After repeated investigations and warnings, the society in
                    1803 sent Rapp and several other members to America to locate a region where they might live in
                    peace. Land was acquired on the Connoquenessing River in 
                        Butler
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and on July 4, 1804, the first group arrived to be followed by two more groups in
                    September. On February 15, 1805, the legal organization of the Harmony Society was established. Even
                    in the land of promise, they soon discovered the outside world was interferring in their affairs.
                    This brought back vivid memories of similar experiences in Württemberg. Then, too, the
                    increasing population and rising prices of land in their neighborhood did not deepen their love for
                    the region.
            Consequently, in April, 1814, Rapp and two Harmonists set out again to seek a new location. In May,
                    Rapp wrote from 
                        Vincennes
                     that they had found the best land along the 
                        Wabash
                    . He was further impressed by the size of the river and the fact that it provided
                    year-round navigation to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Hence, on June 20, 1814, a company of Harmonists on flatboats started for their new
                    home in Indiana. Although they engaged in agriculture, manufacturing, and commerce with much
                    success, they also promoted learning. Many of the members brought their libraries from 
                        Germany
                    , and books were continuously bought to add to the society's library.
                    Practically every field of human knowledge was represented in its extensive collection. Inasmuch as
                    the society kept up with new developments in science, physicians from other localities came to
                    consult their recent medical works. Great friends of literature, philosophy, and theology, they also
                    expressed themselves well in prose and verse as is evidenced by manuscripts in their archives. The
                    author, however, is somewhat in error when he states, "The  Society's expenditure on books was then greater than the
                    appropriation of the state of Indiana for its State Library" (p. 253). The Indiana State
                    Library was not established until 1825 and then only as a department of the office of the secretary
                    of state. It did not become a separate institution until 1841.
            Later in the Indiana period the society acquired a printing press. On it were printed programs of the
                    society, maps, hymnals, textbooks, and most important of all, Indiana's first philosophy
                    book in 1824. 
                        New Harmony
                     may truly be referred to as the cultural oasis of the Hoosier State during that period.
            Oddly enough, after ten years on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , the Harmonists were again possessed with the "Wanderlust." Because
                    of their increased interest in manufacturing, they desired a more advantageous location. Moreover,
                    the external discomforts of poor mail facilities, poor communication with the East, unpleasant
                    relations with neighbors, currency troubles, and miscarriage of justice reinforced the basically
                    religious cause for a third move. They returned to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     as conditions there were more favorable to their work and interests. German was not a
                    foreign language in that state, nor were German speaking legislators considered alien.
            The final agreement with Robert Owen for the sale of 
                        New Harmony
                     was not consummated until January 3, 1825. Although the last group of Rappites did not
                    leave until May 5, 1825, the Owenites began to take up residence before that date.
            The third home at Economy on the 
                        Ohio
                     in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     also had its problems. Unfortunately, the visit of Count Leon, Archduke Maximilian of
                    the Stem of Judah and Root of David, caused a schism in the society that never completely healed. In
                    spite of the difficulties, which included finances, caused by his visit, the Harmony Society was as
                    firm and sound as a rock during the Panic of 1837.
            "The legal entity which came into being in 1805 was not buried with Rapp; in fact its legal
                    existence began to flourish after his death and legally was not put to rest until the lawyers spoke
                    their last words in 1916" (p. 581).
            
               Indiana University Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               Turner, Bolton, and Webb: Three Historians of the American Frontier. By Wilbur
                    R. Jacobs, John W. Caughey, and Joe B. Frantz. (
                        Seattle
                    : University of 
                        Washington
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xiii, 113. Illustrations, selected bibliographies, index.
                    $2.95.)
            This is a little book about three big men who were interpreters of the American frontier. Within
                    these few pages in large print historians Jacobs, Caughey, and Frantz appraise Frederick Jackson
                    Turner, Herbert Eugene Bolton, and Walter Prescott Webb. Although all three subjects of this book
                    are now dead, evaluations did not in each instance await their passing; and each had demonstrated
                    within his lifetime that the road of the generalizer is rough, hilly, and unstable.
            Even though a touch of the poet has been ascribed to Turner and even though his classic essay,
                    "The Significance of the Frontier in  American
                    History," has recognizable literary qualities, Turner, according to Jacobs, experienced
                    great difficulties committing his ideas to print. "The fact is," writes Jacobs,
                    "that Turner was a writer by virtue of necessity"—a fact emphatically
                    underscored by Ray A. Billington in his Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association presidential address, "Why Some Historians Rarely Write History." But
                    Turner—on or off the printed page—was a man of original ideas, and in the
                    words alloted to him Jacobs has managed to allude to some of these. For example, he has discussed
                    Turner's concept of westward expansion as a process rather than as a fixed zone, his ideas
                    on sectionalism, and his reaching out for and grasping of the broad interrelationships within the
                    American story. Jacobs also manages to portray Turner's modest yet exacting nature as well
                    as his deep devotion to and reliance upon his students.
            Caughey, first of all, succeeds admirably in recapturing a glimpse of Bolton in his mid-fifties when
                    this remarkably productive Latin American historian simultaneously chaired the University of 
                        California
                     history department, headed the Bancroft Library, taught classes with fantastically
                    large undergraduate enrollments, directed the dissertations of scores of graduate students, and
                    produced books and articles in assembly-line fashion. Caughey, who was one of Bolton's
                    students, has not only succeeded in producing a vivid portrait of his mentor but has also managed to
                    describe Bolton's tremendous physical endurance, boundless enthusiasm, unrestrained
                    optimism, and great desire not only to unveil new areas of history but also to relate the common
                    history of the Americas.
            Frantz sees Webb as falling somewhat between his two distinguished contemporaries. This 
                        Texas
                     historian was basically a theorist. His writings were compressed between rather
                    protracted periods of cogitation. He was a western historian; but his view of the West, as in the
                    case of his book The Great Frontier, was set on a world-wide stage.
                    Webb's works were severely attacked during his lifetime, but his The Great
                        Plains is more likely to stand the test of time than are the theoretical writings of either
                    of the two historians discussed in this little book. Not only do Jacobs, Caughey, and Frantz succeed
                    in portraying interesting facets of their respective subjects, but they unwittingly reveal much of
                    themselves as well.
            
               Indiana University Oscar O. Winther
         
         
            
               Moving Frontiers: Readings in the History of the Lutheran Church—
                            Missouri
                         Synod. Edited by Carl S. Meyer. (
                        St. Louis
                    : Concordia Publishing House, 1964. Pp. xii, 500. Notes, selected bibliography, index,
                    maps. $8.50.)
            This book, edited by Carl S. Meyer, director of graduate studies, Concordia Seminary, 
                        St. Louis
                    , is a collection of readings in the history of the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod Lutheran Church. This church body began in consequence of German immigration of
                    the 1830's and 1840's and was founded in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1847 as the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                  Missouri, Ohio
               , and Other
                    States. The Synod presently has some two  hundred congregations
                    in an Indiana District which also takes in a part of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The readings therefore reflect a part of Indiana's religious heritage.
            In the Preface the editor states the purpose of the collection: "The work has a twofold aim.
                    First, it is to serve students in Lutheran theological seminaries and teachers' colleges as
                    a resource work for courses in historical theology. Second, it is to help professional men and
                    women, as well as other interested students of church history, further their interest in and
                    acquaintance with a significant church body" (p. vii). Later in the Preface Editor Meyer
                    notes: "Public libraries, the libraries of universities and colleges, and the libraries of
                    professional men outside the Lutheran church, it is hoped, will find the present volume of value for
                    their readers" (p. ix).
            Indiana readers will find a number of items of special interest in the collection. A pioneer Lutheran
                    missionary, Friedrich Conrad Dietrich Wyneken, (1810–1876) roamed the prairies of
                    northern Indiana from 
                        Michigan City
                     to Niles, 
                        Michigan
                    , in the north and to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in the south between 1828 and 1841. This Lutheran "Francis Asbury"
                    founded a number of congregations in northeastern Indiana which became charter members of the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod. His famous tract, "Die Noth der deutschen Lutheraner in
                    Nordamerika," ("The Distress of the German Lutherans in North America") is included in
                    Chapter III.
            Other pertinent selections deal with the "Beginnings of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Seminary" (1846), "The Status of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Seminary" (1852), and "The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Seminary in 1856" (pp. 216–17). The 
                        St. Louis
                     Seminary curriculum in 1860 is also outlined and reflects the pattern of 
                        Missouri
                     Synod ministerial training in the nineteenth century.
            With regard to the title Carl Meyer writes "The frontier theme, it is true, can be
                    overemphasized in looking at the history of the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod. No adaptation of Turner's thesis will make for an adequate
                    interpretation of that history. Other moving forces, theological and ecclesiological, entered
                    in" (p. vii). The selected bibliography will be helpful to anyone interested in doing
                    further research into Lutheran Church history. The maps, too, are most useful as are the listings of
                    pastors and parishes of the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod in 1854 (pp. 187–93).
            
               West 
                     Lafayette, Indiana
                  
                R. F. Rehmer
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Minnesota
                         and the Manifest Destiny of the Canadian Northwest: A Study in Canadian-American
                        Relations. By Alvin C. Gluek, Jr. ([
                        Toronto
                    ]: University of 
                        Toronto
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xi, 311. Notes, maps, index. $7.50.)
            Both as a student and as a teacher of the history of 
                        Canada
                     and Canadian-American relations, the reader awaited the appearance of this book. He had
                    hoped that it would fill some gaps in the understanding of the intricate relationship between the 
                        Minnesota
                     frontier and the rise of the Red River settlement toward
                    provincial status and that it would be a book which would stimulate students to further  interest in the broader subject of American impact upon 
                        Canada
                    . Both hopes are amply realized.
            Gluek's study treats virtually all aspects of the interrelationship suggested by its title,
                    and it is a book of considerable merit. Much already is known about 
                        Minnesota
                    's expansionism, the Reciprocity Treaty of 1854, the Sioux uprising, and the
                    Kiel Rebellion; but until now the information has been scattered in journal articles and individual
                    chapters of books in which the chief focus lay elsewhere. Indeed, much of our previous knowledge
                    stems from Gluek's own studies which have appeared in the Canadian Historical
                        Review, 
                            Minnesota
                         History, and Beaver; and anyone who has followed the
                    author's careful traverse of this terrain within the journals will find his book not as new
                    as one might have hoped.
            If already well-known in outline, the story Gluek tells here in his quiet, controlled prose is now
                    enriched by detail and elaborated by more formal and lengthy analysis. Essentially a narrative
                    history, the present book nonetheless has much to say both by implication and by specific argument
                    about the larger problems of the Canadian-American relationship. The Red River
                    area was a region in which the economy, communications, and nomadic populations were one. How, then,
                    did Britain, and British North America (and after 1867, 
                        Canada
                    ) hold to that portion centering upon Winnipeg? The answer is to be found in political
                    and individual analyses; and it is in his investigation of the activities of such figures as Norman
                    W. Kittson, James Wickes Taylor, John Schultz, William McDougall, and of course, Sir John A.
                    Macdonald, together with two careful chapters on the politics and economics of "
                        Minnesota
                    's Territorial Years" and "
                        Minnesota
                    's Post-War Expansionism," that Gluek makes his most important
                    contribution.
            In one respect, however, the book is disappointing. It is quite devoid of scholarly apparatus, aside
                    from footnotes: there is no essay on manuscript sources, no bibliography, and no very full
                    indication as to where research was conducted. Consequently, the reader must root through the
                    footnotes to learn locations of crucial collections of papers, and he can form no clear impression
                    concerning the substructure of monographic literature upon which the book is based. All of the
                    manuscript collections (i.e., the Taylor Papers, the Sibley Papers, etc.) are well known to
                    specialists in the field, but some readers will be approaching this subject for the first time. One
                    may presume that Gluek has read J. J. Hargrave's 
                        Red River
                     or Joseph Lehmann's biography of Sir Garnet Wolseley or the several relevant
                    unpublished doctoral dissertations and master's theses (one on Schultz), but one cannot be
                    certain from the notes.
            One man's footnote is another man's pedantry, of course; and no two authors will
                    agree on what constitutes adequate evidence for any given generalization. But scholars who work in
                    the field of Canadian-American studies face a particular problem which forces upon them somewhat
                    denser documentation than in other fields: they are writing for two often quite distinct audiences.
                    All Canadian historians will know of W. L. Morton's fine history of 
                        Manitoba
                    , but many American readers will not. Failure to mention the work would be a disservice
                    to  readers south of the border. Conversely, all American
                    historians will know Weinberg's theoretical study of the topology of Manifest
                        Destiny, but many Canadians will not. Thus attention should be directed to it, if not in
                    the text then in a note. In short, Gluek has written an excellent history, but by too ruthlessly
                    pruning his documentation he has made it less useful for students than some readers might have
                    wished. It would be graceless, however, to leave the impression that the integrity or value for
                    specialists to be found in this precise study is in any way vitiated: it is a work of high merit,
                    deserving of what it will receive, a long and useful life.
            
               Yale University Robin W. Winks
         
         
            
               Keepers of the Past. Edited by Clifford L. Lord. (Chapel
                    Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1965. Pp. 241. Notes. $6.00.)
            This volume comprises a series of biographical sketches of eighteen persons who were outstanding
                    pioneers in five fields of historic preservation in the 
                        United States
                    : the historical society, the public archive, the historical museum, the special
                    collection, and the historic site. Selected to represent the first category are Jeremy Belknap,
                    founder of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society (by Stephen T. Riley); John Pintard, launcher of the New-York
                    Historical Society (by James J. Heslin); Lyman Copeland Draper and Reuben Gold Thwaites,
                    superintendents of the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     (by Larry Gara and Clifford L. Lord, respectively); and finally Dixon Ryan Fox (by John
                    Allen Krout). Three persons are presented for the public archive: John Franklin Jameson, teacher,
                    editor, and the "father" of the public archive movement in the 
                        United States
                     (by David D. Van Tassel); Thomas McAdory Owen, Sr., who conceived the idea of a state
                    archives and historical commission and was instrumental in setting up the 
                        Alabama
                     Department of Archives and History (by James F. Doster); and Robert Digges Wimberly
                    Connor, who developed the archives program of 
                        North Carolina
                     and was named first archivist of the 
                        United States
                     (by Hugh T. Lefler). Pioneers in the historical museum field are George 
                        Brown
                     Goode who conceived the idea of making the museum a teaching device and was largely
                    responsible for developing the Smithsonian Institution into the country's leading national
                    historical museum (by G. Carroll Lindsay); Edgar Lee Hewitt who may be called the founder of the
                    Museum of New 
                        Mexico
                     at Santa Fe (by James Taylor Forrest); and George Francis Dow, secretary of the Essex
                    Institute of 
                  Salem, Massachusetts
               , who realized the possibility of the museum as a means
                    of illustrating the everyday life of our forefathers (by Charles B. Hosmer, Jr.). Special collectors
                    are Henry E. Huntington, founder of the 
                        Huntington
                     Library and Art Gallery (by John E. Pomfret), and Bella C. Landauer, who amassed the
                    significant collection of material relating to American advertising now in the New-York Historical
                    Society (by James J. Heslin). The pioneers in the area of historic sites are: Ann Pamela Cunningham,
                    the person chiefly responsible for the preservation of 
                        Mount Vernon
                     (by Charles B. Hosmer, Jr.); Adina  De Zavala,
                    promoter for the preservation of the 
                        Alamo
                     (by L. Robert Abies); William Sumner Appleton, founder of the Society for the
                    Preservation of New 
                        England
                     Antiquities (by Bertram K. Little); Stephen Hyatt Pelham Pell, restorer of Fort
                    Ticonderoga (by Edward P. Hamilton); and finally John D. Rockefeller, Jr., of Colonial Williams-burg
                    (by Pairfield Osborn).
            Perhaps the thing that first impresses the reader of these sketches is the contrast in the lives of
                    the people discussed. They ranged from the Reverend Belknap of modest means to Henry E. Huntington
                    of fabulous fortune; from the almost bedfast invalid Ann Cunningham to the wide-ranging world
                    traveler Edgar Lee Hewitt; from J. Franklin Jameson, trained promoter of historical scholarship, to
                    the 
                        New York
                     matron, Mrs. Landauer. At the same time the reader is aware that there are certain
                    characteristics that they all held in common—a steadiness of purpose, an unflagging zeal
                    and drive toward their goals, high standards, and an unwillingness ever to let go. The editor,
                    Clifford Lord, points out that in their lines of greatest endeavor and success they were all
                    amateurs as opposed to the professional historians of today. In the light of this comment, it seems
                    that the present-day "Keepers of the Past," both professional and nonprofessional,
                    might well refresh themselves in reflecting on these pioneers—their dedication, their
                    devotion and enthusiasm, their high standards, and the continuing effects of their accomplishments
                    in the broad field of historical preservation.
            The sketches are short, generally well-written, and lively, forming a little volume well worth
                    reading by both amateur and professional historians.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Gayle Thornbrough
         
         
            
               Farm to Factory: A History of the Consumers Cooperative Association. By Gilbert
                    C. Fite. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1965. Pp. viii, 288. Notes, illustrations, appendix, bibliographical note,
                    index. $6.00.)
            One of the generalizations about recent American history which is often heard but seldom documented
                    is that, since Populist days, farming has become less a way of life and more a commercial
                    enterprise. Old-time protest, a la the early Grange, the Farmers'
                    Alliances, and the People's party, is said to have given way to a more pragmatic search for
                    profits; and some have even suggested that the farmer has changed from the archetypal American
                    individualist to a partner with, if not a ward of, the government. These are provocative
                    overstatements, but there is no denying that major changes have taken place. The Allianceman of
                    1890, and even the Non-Partisan Leaguer of a quarter-century later, was a very different man from
                    the agribusiness-man of today, especially with regard to his attitudes toward, and commercial
                    connections with, the larger economy. The greatest value of Professor Fite's book is that
                    he has demonstrated clearly, concretely, and deftly how changes like these took place in a major
                    instance. His  history of the Consumers Cooperative Association,
                    from tiny beginnings in 
                        Kansas City
                     in 1929 to quarter-billion-dollar vastness today, can be considered a case study in the
                    transformation of midwestern American agriculture. As such it is a significant work for all students
                    of recent American history; and because it is organized and presented so ably, it is a satisfying
                    work as well.
            Those interested in the historical development of agricultural economics will find it useful,
                    particularly for its treatment of materials distribution, product marketing, and the spread of
                    mechanization, scientific methods, and sectoral interdependence: what C.C.A. sold best were what
                    modern farmers seemed to need most. Business history the book certainly is, and of a kind of
                    business with which historians have not often dealt. Because of the central position in the
                    association of its chief founder and long-time president, Howard A. Cowden, the book is a study in
                    business leadership. It also explains—and on balance, underscores—the
                    importance of government in modern agriculture: the role of government being usually positive in the
                    case of the 
                        United States
                     (particularly as a supplier of otherwise unavailable investment capital through its
                    Banks for Cooperatives, and incidentally as a shaper of company organization through its lending
                    requirements); and usually negative in the case of the states (especially in the form of harassment
                    attempts and special-interest opposition expressed through certain 
                        Kansas
                     officials).
            The book also says something about American farmers. Largely unmoved by cooperative commonwealths or
                    similar visions, farmers responded very sensitively to the marginal cost reductions presented them
                    by the C.C.A. This was particularly true during the 1930's, the decade during which the
                    association established itself firmly. The C.C.A. was most successful in supplying farmers, at lower
                    costs, such latter-day essentials as petroleum products and fertilizers; and it was much less
                    successful with consumer items such as groceries and building supplies. Though farmers bought far
                    more gas and oil from the association than they did philosophy, a residual asset (played on
                    skilfully though sincerely by association leaders) was nevertheless the farmers'
                    antimonopoly and anti-eastern sentiment.
            There are a few questions with which the book does not deal, such as the position of the C.C.A.
                    within the cooperative movement; the reasons for its great growth relative to other suppliers, aside
                    from shrewd management; details on the relations of the C.C.A. with local cooperatives, and of the
                    locals with their customers; and the characteristics, in terms of location, income, and product, of
                    its ultimate users. But these are outside of its intended scope. What Professor Fite did choose to
                    discuss, and it is a great deal, he made sense of admirably. With full and unrestricted access to
                    the files of the C.C.A., together with other primary sources, the author has written a readable and
                    significant volume, explicit where it could so easily have been blurred, that should last a good
                    long time.
            
               Indiana University Walter T. K. Nugent
         
         
         
            
               Cornbelt Rebellion: The Farmers' Holiday Association. By John L.
                    Shover. (
                        Urbana
                    : The University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1965. Pp. vi, 239. Notes, figures, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $5.95.)
            From 1931 to 1933 cornbelt farmers from 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana westward to 
                        Nebraska
                     were driven by the anguish and desperation of depression to a series of spontaneous
                    violent outbursts. Professor Shover calls this the most aggressive agrarian uprising of the century.
                    With rather less continuity than the author suggests, the 
                        Iowa
                     "Cow War" in the spring of 1931 was followed in August, 1932, by the
                    first Farmers' Holiday Association crop withholding action in that area where
                            
                  Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                     come together. Early 1933 saw a widespread wave of anti-foreclosure demonstrations and
                    penny auctions until martial law was declared in the critical 
                        Iowa
                     counties. In the meantime, a 
                        Wisconsin
                     milk strike produced further disorders. At the end of 1933 a halfhearted second Holiday
                    Association strike terminated the agrarian violence.
            All together these events make a dramatic episode in American history. Shover has provided a
                    thoroughgoing and straightforward account of these disorders and has exploited their stirring human
                    interest while maintaining scholarly detachment. He succeeds admirably in weaving together the
                    several disjointed movements and sorting out the bewildering proliferation of organizations. The
                    author was tireless in searching for the documentation, and he steeped himself in the locale and the
                    testimony of survivors. A notable by-product is a detailed examination of the largely unsuccessful
                    attempt of the Communist party to use the agrarian unrest for its own purposes.
            The significance of these events is still an open question. They illustrate the severity of the
                    depression better than statistics of hog prices at three and four dollars a hundredweight and milk
                    at two cents a quart. Frantic rural folk who could see no relief ahead assembled to barricade the
                    roads and dump milk. The active supporters of the movement, however, were only a very small
                    proportion of the farmers, and this surely did not make a regional rebellion. The resort to ugly
                    lawlessness created a national fright at the time. This speeded the application of price support
                    programs but seems not to have had much influence upon national legislation and policy.
            Unavoidably, perhaps, the author gives much attention to the noisy Milo Reno and his
                    Farmers' Holiday Association. The association never had a membership as large as ten
                    thousand, and it is not clear whether Reno was leading or following the farmers. This much is clear:
                    the association and its leaders were more damaging than helpful to farmers. Irrational and
                    irresponsible, the organization dwindled away to become the personal property of a few cranky
                    officers who tried to deliver the remnants to the Huey Long and Coughlin crowd in 1935.
            
               University of 
                            California
                        , Davis James H. Shideler
         
         
         
            
               The King's Friends: The Composition and Motives of the American Loyalist
                        Claimants. By Wallace 
                        Brown
                    . (
                        Providence
                    , R.I.: 
                        Brown
                     University Press, 1965. Pp. x, 411. Maps, tables, appendix, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $7.00.)
            Wallace 
                        Brown
                     offers in The King's Friends an impressive analysis of the
                    nearly three thousand Loyalist claimants who sought indemnity for the losses incurred during the
                    American Revolution from the British claims commission. The question which immediately arises is
                    that of how typical this group, numbering between eight and nine per cent of the exiles, was of the
                    entire body of Loyalists in the colonies. The author makes it clear that his study deals with a
                    small percentage of the Loyalists, but he rightfully suggests that many of his findings might very
                    well apply to the whole group. The claimants are a substantial sampling, and the fact that they
                    ranged so widely in social and economic status and geographical distribution would further support
                    the view that this is a representative cross-section of the Loyalists.
            The more Loyalism is studied the more apparent it becomes that it was largely a personal matter
                    influenced by local conditions. Thus 
                        Brown
                     minutely examines the make-up of the claimants in each colony according to a variety of
                    categories: number, national origin, occupation, social status, geographical distribution, religious
                    affiliation, size of claim, service to the British, treatment by the provincial government, and
                    finally, motivation. While this method tends to be repetitious in content, cumbersome in style, and
                    statistical rather than interpretive, it does answer some significant questions about the
                    composition of the Tory element and makes possible comparisons among the colonies.
            The weakest portion of the study is the author's interpretation of the motives of the
                    Loyalists, and it appears to be his statistical approach which hinders his evaluation. Figures
                    become more important than ideas. Only occasionally does he make reference to the political and
                    social theories and views of the individuals who chose to remain loyal despite persecution, social
                    ostracism, or loss of position and property. Brown has failed to tackle the question of ideology as
                    a factor promoting Loyalism.
            Some of the long standing assumptions about Loyalist groups need reconsideration, and The King's Friends makes some important contributions to our knowledge and
                    understanding of the nature of Loyalism. That allegiance to Britain was a personal matter is clear.
                    Each colony offers its own pattern, and one cannot generalize from one area to another. As to
                    numbers, 
                        Brown
                     concludes on the basis of his sample and contemporary figures that the total body of
                    Loyalists—those who remained as well as those who left—was perhaps 160,000 as
                    a low estimate, and 384,000 as an extremely high one. Another point well made is that British
                    ineptness and ineffectiveness in encouraging and aiding would-be Loyalists led to defections and
                    neutralism, as in the case of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            In general the Loyalists were strongest in 
                  Georgia, New York
               , and 
                        South Carolina
                     and weakest in 
                  Delaware, Maryland
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    ; but in no colony were they a majority. The bulk of the people who put in claims were
                    of "modest means," thus strongly suggesting that the  economic factor was an insignificant one. Likewise church membership
                    was not a key to Loyalist affiliation. Even among the Anglicans, the majority were not loyal to the
                    Crown; and the author emphasizes this by pointing out that more signers of the Declaration of
                    Independence were of the Anglican faith than any other religious group.
            Despite the book's weakness in interpretation and presentation and in its over-reliance on
                    the reports of the claims commission, it is nonetheless a significant work. It brings together an
                    overwhelming amount of information about the claimants and becomes an indispensable handbook for an
                    analysis of the Loyalists in any one of the colonies. This study contains the raw materials for
                    further studies on this important topic.
            
               San Fernando Valley State College Rena Vassar
         
         
            
               The Old Republicans: Southern Conservatism in the Age of Jefferson, By Norman K.
                    Risjord. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1965. Pp. 340. Notes, bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            The recrudescence of conservatism on college campuses seemingly has renewed scholarly interest in
                    conservatism in the American past. Significantly, the publication of Norman K. Risjord's,
                        The Old Republicans: Southern Conservatism in the Age of Jefferson occurred
                    within weeks of the appearance of a related work, David Hackett Fischer's, Revolution of American Conservatism, a study of the Federalist party in the era of
                    Jeffersonian Democracy.
            Risjord traces the evolution of conservative tactics by southern Republicans who adhered to basic
                    Jeffersonian ideals: a severely restricted central government and economic simplicity. These
                    concepts stated by Jefferson during the crisis of 1798, but not followed by Jeffersonians in office,
                    led to the creation of a dissident faction within the party, the Old Republicans. Another group,
                    with which Risjord treats, is the Quids—slight in influence, small in numbers, but ably
                    led by the talented and biting eccentric, John Randolph. The author correctly keeps these two
                    factions separate and performs a valuable task in his resurrection of 
                        Randolph
                     from the unflattering treatment he has received at the hands of historians.
            The Old Republicans loyal to the spirit of '98 were severely tested by their abortive revolt
                    during the election of 1808. Chastened by defeat, many conservatives abandoned the opposition, only
                    to balk at the aggressive War Hawk program which called for a national bank, a protective tariff,
                    internal improvements, and an enlarged regular army. During the War of 1812 the Old Republicans
                    faithfully supported the government, but with the signing of the peace treaty they renewed their
                    attack upon the new nationalism. Much weakened by failure, the Old Republicans were laid to rest by
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     debates. Some became Crawford "Radicals"; most eventually became
                    Jackson men. The remnant conservative movement was swallowed up by the extreme sectionalists from
                    the Deep South. To Risjord, the Old Republicans had served as the "missing link in the
                    conservative tradition between the Anti-federalists of 1788 and the states' rights
                    Southerners of the Jacksonian era" (p. 1).
            
            Despite the merits of this well-written and extensively researched volume Risjord's work has
                    many shortcomings. Particularly damaging is the emphasis he has placed upon events at the national
                    level, while generally ignoring the interrelated local political struggles. Never does he manage to
                    give any indication of the appeal of the Old Republicans within the states, nor does he correlate
                    conservative views with vital local issues—over which most of the major battles of the
                    day were fought. Risjord also underplays the effect of the boom and bust period from
                    1815–1819 upon the development of the conservative mind. The emergence of an
                    interregional market economy greatly altered American attitudes towards the national government. And
                    with the Panic of 1819, many new nationalists retrenched and became poorer but wiser Jeffersonians.
            An interesting assertion which Risjord makes, but does not adequately document, is that many
                    southerners opposed internal improvements because they feared that the same central authority might
                    be used against the institution of slavery. He likewise does not justify the extreme emphasis he
                    places upon the War of 1812 in creating the postwar nationalism, while he neglects to discuss the
                    equally important issue of local banking and finance. Finally, he falls into established myth by
                    pointing to the existence of a monolithic southern sectional viewpoint opposed to nationalistic
                    legislation—a situation which never existed. These are admittedly strong objections to an
                    otherwise valuable book which ably discusses the ideas and practices of the Old Republicans.
            
               Indiana University Norman S. Cohen
         
         
            
               Zeb Vance: Champion of Personal Freedom. By Glenn Tucker. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1965. Pp. viii, 564. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            Zebulon Baird Vance emerged as a Whig party spokesman and champion of unionism in the turbulent
                    decade that preceded the secession crisis and the outbreak of the Civil War. Contrary to the widely
                    recognized thesis of Roy F. Nichols and others on the calibre of political leaders, the author of
                    this biography maintains that the events which occasioned the disruption of the Union brought forth
                    political giants: "In this era of stress, most states endeavored to send [to Congress]
                    their ablest and best" (p. 83). As a political aspirant from the mountains of western 
                        North Carolina
                    , Vance reflected the viewpoint of the yeoman farmer class from which he was descended.
                    His modest upbringing was enriched by voracious reading from an ample private library, and his
                    intellect was sharpened by a brief enrollment at the University of 
                        North Carolina
                    . Zeb's extraordinary talent as an orator and his dynamic, engaging, and
                    colorful personality assured his success in politics.
            Vance's appeals to unionism and nationalism ended abruptly with President Lincoln's
                    call for troops in 1861. The indomitable mountaineer  promptly
                    enlisted as a Confederate private and, as a testimonial to his popularity, was soon elected by the
                    troops as colonel of the 26th 
                        North Carolina
                     Regiment. His military experience in the futile defense of 
                        New Bern
                     and in the costly Battle of Malvern Hill was limited and would not seem to warrant the
                    inordinate amount of space allotted by the author to the campaigns and leaders of the Civil War.
                    Tucker is obviously following his penchant for military history, although much of what he relates is
                    rambling, irrelevant, anecdotal, and poorly organized.
            It is the author's main contention that Vance as wartime governor of 
                        North Carolina
                    , elected from the military ranks as a Conservative party candidate in 1862, ably
                    supported the cause of the Confederacy while he upheld the rights of his own state from encroachment
                    by an arbitrary and capricious Confederate leadership. This viewpoint is not original, but it is
                    persuasively argued in this biography. Vance is portrayed as an effective administrator whose record
                    in recruiting troops, procuring supplies, running the Union blockade, and upholding the writ of
                    habeas corpus for his fellow North Carolinians evidenced extraordinary qualities of leadership and
                    an abiding belief in individual freedom. The author contends that Vance's squabbling with
                    Jefferson Davis and the Confederate government did not stand in the way of service to the lost
                    cause. Impressive data is adduced to support this point of view. Tucker apparently injects his own
                    views and philosophy about the "continual dimunition" of the individual and the
                    expansion of governmental powers.
            The information on the post-Civil War period until Vance's death in 1894 is sketchy and
                    anticlimactic. The author demonstrates little knowledge about the recent historical literature on
                    the Reconstruction Era in 
                        North Carolina
                    . There is practically nothing of substance on state or national politics from 1876 to
                    1894. It is ironic that Vance, who is heralded as a champion of personal liberty, would steadfastly
                    lead his party in its campaign to secure the enactment of county government laws, voting
                    requirements, and registration procedures that effectively denied local self-government and home
                    rule in his own state. The use of gerrymandering tactics left no qualms with this
                    post-Reconstruction governor and 
                        United States
                     senator.
            This is a biography written for popular consumption. It is spirited and dramatic and abounds with
                    anecdotal lore. It is far from definitive. The monumental research of Frontis W. Johnston as editor
                    of the Vance papers—of which the first volume has appeared—must be cited as a
                    more authorative source on this subject. As a reputed authority on western 
                        North Carolina
                    , Tucker encounters considerable difficulty in citing properly the name of the famous
                    jurist 
                        Richmond
                     Mumford Pearson. The author's diligent research nonetheless deserves to be
                    commended.
            
               East Carolina College Joseph F. Steelman
         
         
         
            
               Gunboats Down The 
                            Mississippi
                        . By John D. Milligan. (
                        Annapolis
                    : 
                        United States
                     Naval Institute, 1965. Pp. xxvii, 217. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            
               
                  
                            Tennessee
                        's War, 1861–1865, Described by Participants. Compiled and
                    edited by Stanley P. Horn. (
                        Nashville
                    : 
                        Tennessee
                     Civil War Centennial Commission, 1965. Pp. 364. End map, bibliography.
                    $5.95.)
            The Civil War Centennial has passed and the Federal Union has survived, just as it survived the event
                    commemorated. In each case it was at times a fairly close call. Throughout the centennial period,
                    reasonable men disagreed about the wisdom of the observance. Some of this disagreement was on public
                    policy grounds. There was, for example, an unfortunate coincidence of the Centennial and the civil
                    rights crises. Whatever may ultimately be concluded in this respect, the Centennial did support a
                    large quantity of literature, much of which might not otherwise have been published. As a whole this
                    body of publications has an uneven quality. Surely a number of exceptional books have appeared in
                    the last few years, but the fact that a number of mediocre and bad books were joined with these must
                    also be admitted. The unresolved question is whether, in spite of the inferior books, the appearance
                    of the worthwhile books justified the Centennial in terms of literature about the war. In any event,
                    the two books here reviewed fall clearly into the worthwhile category.
            
               Gunboats Down The 
                            Mississippi
                        
                is nothing less than a splendid book. The author, John D. Milligan, is a
                    professional historian. The subject of his inquiry is the role played by the Mississippi
                        River during the war, with particular attention to the naval aspect of the river
                    campaigns. This is a significant subject. It is also one sufficiently limited to permit a deep and
                    well ordered study; and Milligan has given us such a study, based on first rate research and
                    containing sound insights of his own.
            In the Introduction, which effectively sets the stage for the book, Milligan points out the strategic
                    importance of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and also shows that this importance was contemporaneously understood. He then
                    chronologically traces the story of the opening of the river, beginning with the preparations in
                    1861 and ending with the surrender of 
                        Vicksburg
                    . Along the way he tells about the river craft which were developed on both sides to
                    fight the water battles; and he effectively sketches the interesting people involved, especially
                    such Union figures as John Rodgers, James B. Eads, and the Elletts. Also included is the story of
                    the army-navy command and tactical relationships as they evolved in the prosecution of what at all
                    times was a combination of land and water warfare.
            The book concludes with a brief statement of the indispensable role of the Navy. This, after all,
                    should not be unexpected in a book published by the 
                        United States
                     Naval Institute. It is also historically sound and well put and constitutes an
                    effective summary of the implications of the book. The work has no shortcomings. The illustrations
                    and maps are fine. It is well documented and well indexed. It should  be gratefully received by both scholars and buffs concerned with Civil
                    War history.
            Stanley F. Horn's 
                  
                            Tennessee
                        's War does not have the general appeal of Milligan's book.
                    Published by the 
                        Tennessee
                     Civil War Centennial Commission, it appropriately focuses attention on the war as it
                    directly affected that state. In view of the trite but true saying that the war was fought in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , a book about 
                        Tennessee
                    's war is concerned with large aspects of the conflict. Because the author is
                    Stanley F. Horn, the book is well done. Before the emergence of K. P. Williams, Bruce Catton, Bell
                    Wiley, T. Harry Williams, and others of the great Civil War writers, Horn was already writing
                    distinguished Civil War books. His The Army of 
                            Tennessee
                        
               , initially published in 1941, is still the definitive book about that southern
                    army and is still the best single book about the war in the West.
            
               
                  
                            Tennessee
                        's War is organized chronologically and begins with the fateful
                    decision on the part of the state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy. It proceeds to a
                    description of the state's preparations for the war and then to the fighting. Forts Henry
                    and Donelson, Shiloh, the fall of 
                        Memphis
                    , Stones River, Chickamauga, Missionary Ridge, and Hood's
                    campaign, culminating in the defeats at 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Nashville
                    , are included. The method of the book is what may be called documentary; that is, the
                    statements of the participants are used to tell of the events and these statements are brought
                    together by means of brief narratives by Horn. Although there is little new, the story is well told;
                    and the method is effective.
            An episodic characteristic marks the book, a characteristic forced on the author by the nature of the
                    contents. Regrettably, the work is not indexed and the sources are not well identified, both of
                    which would have contributed much to its value. It is, nevertheless, a valuable book and is another
                    item of evidence in behalf of the Centennial.
            
               
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                     Alan T. Nolan
         
         
            
               John Roach, Maritime Entrepeneur: The Years as Naval Contractor,
                        1862–1886. By Leonard Alexander Swann, Jr. (
                        Annapolis
                    : 
                        United States
                     Naval Institute, 1965. Pp. xv, 301. Tables, illustrations, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            
               Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                         Isherwood, Naval Engineer: The Years as Engineer in Chief,
                    1861–1869. By Edward William Sloan, III. (
                        Annapolis
                    : 
                        United States
                     Naval Institute, 1965. Pp. xiii, 299. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            The 
                        United States
                     Naval Institute has presented two parallel books about neglected but important figures
                    in the history of American seapower. Christopher Isherwood, engineer in chief of the 
                        United States
                     Navy was the Admiral Rickover of his day: a dedicated, self-assured (some would say
                    egotistical), driving promoter of a new naval technology. Like Rickover, the engineer in chief had
                    enemies including,  in Isherwood's case, private
                    builders, marine engineers, journalists, congressmen, and certain line officers who resented upstart
                    steam engineers and their expensive machines that consumed so much of the Navy's straitened
                    postwar budget and made old naval virtues seem less important. Eventually Isherwood's
                    opponents brought him down.
            John Roach, Isherwood's contemporary, also acquired enemies during his own career, which
                    sounds like the standard American success and failure story. Roach was a penniless Irish immigrant
                    youth who, through hard work, the application of considerable business acumen and technical
                    knowledge, cultivation of leading politicians, and the occasional appropriation of other
                    people's ideas, made himself the nation's chief builder of ships and marine
                    engines. Like Isherwood, Roach also fell, the victim mainly of excessive optimism that led him to
                    undertake work beyond the limits of his capital. Political antagonists contributed to the ruin of
                    his business. So did government contracting techniques which could enrich a businessman at one time
                    and at another time force him to carry out maddening specification changes in the middle of a job
                    and wait months for payment. Before his departure Roach helped begin the new steel American navy of
                    the 1880's.
            Roach and Isherwood were, in some respects, ahead of their times. Isherwood and a fellow officer
                    together developed a theory of offensive naval power which antedated the comparable ideas of Alfred
                    Thayer Mahan by almost thirty years. Roach followed such modern business practices as distributing
                    stock to his managers to bind them to the company. In the 1870's he began to put together a
                    completely integrated shipyard under his own control from raw material to finished vessels. A mania
                    for automation led Roach to order several laborsaving devices including machines, actuated by alarm
                    clocks, to feed the animals in his yards.
            Swann and Sloan have written symphathtically, perhaps too sympathetically, about their subjects. It
                    is refreshing to observe Swann describe William C. Whitney, 
                        Cleveland
                    's secretary of the navy and one of the more respectable figures of the gilded
                    era, as the relentless persecutor of a sick old shipbuilder, demanding test after test of one of
                    Roach's naval vessels while holding up payments that might have saved Roach's
                    firm. But Swann might have reminded the reader at this point of facts mentioned earlier which
                    indicate that Whitney could not have been too careful about accepting the old man's work:
                    Roach had been responsible for some shoddy engine construction during the Civil War, had recommended
                    to fellow engine builders that they fabricate figures to squeeze extra money out of the government,
                    had lent one secretary of the navy at least $10,000, and had employed Whitney's
                    predecessor in that office as an influence peddler.
            The chief shortcoming of Sloan's book is that, while it often deals with
                    controversy—Isherwood seems to have been involved in constant controversy during his
                    years as engineer in chief—it does not always go deeply enough into the facts and
                    theories of ship design and engine technology to convince the reader whether Isherwood or his
                    critics made the better case. Readers learn that although the hostile majority  of one expert board condemmed all of Isherwood's ships, at
                    another time a different group of experts praised the work of the engineer in chief. Which group of
                    experts was correct? The reader wants more than the opinion of authorities and the gist of their
                    arguments. He wants Sloan to lead him painstakingly through the precise details of evidence. The
                    author informs us that Isherwood's famous crusier the Wampanoag was
                    extraordinarily fast for its time, that it influenced British thinking about crusier design, that
                    two members of a three-man board reported that the Wampanoag had sufficient
                    armament as well as speed for destroying commerce and self-defense, and that Isherwood's
                    critics complained that the ship lacked adequate space for crew, supplies, or armament. Fast or not,
                    the Wampanoag may have been a failure. Perhaps in an appendix Sloan might have
                    more thoroughly analysed the evidence to demonstrate what he clearly believes: that the Wampanoag was a success.
            Neither volume, each of which grew from a doctoral dissertation, is a complete biography. The authors
                    did not have the collections of ‘their subjects’ personal papers that might
                    have allowed fuller treatment of the early lives of Roach and Isherwood. They chose wisely to
                    concentrate on the years when their men were relatively prominent and when accounts of their
                    activities were full. Within the limitations they accepted, Swann and Sloan have written books of
                    considerable utility to military and naval historians, to students of business and technology in the
                    nineteenth century, and to those who wish to investigate the historical relationships between
                    industry and the American defense establishment.
            
               San Fernando Valley State College Ronald Schaffer
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Indiana Department of Commerce. By Charles W. Kirk, Jr. [Indiana
                        Public Affairs Notes, Vol. VII, No. 6] (
                        Bloomington
                    : Institute of Public Administration, Indiana University, 1965. Pp. 3. Pamphlet, free.)
                    The growing importance of administrative services and functions in state government is well
                    illustrated by the tremendous expansion of the role of the lieutenant governor of Indiana since
                    1933. This particular issue of Indiana Public Affairs Notes gives emphasis to the
                    expanded duties given the lieutenant governor as head of the Indiana Department of Commerce by the
                    1965 general assembly. It explains his increased services and functions as regards industrial
                    development, economic planning, tourist promotion, and related items. Charles W. Kirk as a former
                    legislator and current executive director of the Indiana Department of Commerce obviously has much
                    firsthand knowledge as a background for his account.
            
               One Hundred Years: Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1865–1965. By Joseph A. Batchelor. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1965]. Pp. 72. Illustrations.) This publication is a centennial souvenir of the
                    Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area. Joseph A. Batchelor's intimate association with Masonry as well as his
                    competence as an historian made him an especially fortunate choice as its author. The text and
                    numerous pictures explain many of the highlights of and indicate numerous details concerning Masonry
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               Ordinaries, Safeties and Fun: A Resume of the Early Bicycle Period in
                                
                     Fort Wayne, Indiana
                  , and Vicinity, 1879–1900. By Cleo Goff
                    Wilkens. [Old Fort News, Vol. XXIX, No. 1] (
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Ind.: The 
                        Allen County
                    -
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society, 1966. Pp. 30. Illustrations, bibliography. Paperbound.) In recent
                    years a number of interesting articles have appeared in the Old Fort News. This
                    discussion of the use of bicycles in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     area, 1879–1900, is no exception. The text and the illustrations offer
                    worthwhile and fascinating information. The author suggests that the bicycle offered a
                    "proving ground" for subsequent developments of significance for both automobiles
                    and airplanes.
            
               The Kankakee: Chronicle of an Indiana River and Its Fabled
                    Marshes. By Fay Folsom Nichols. Second printing. (
                        Brooklyn
                    : Theo. Gaus' Sons, Inc., 1965. Pp. xi, 209. Bibliography. $5.95.)
                    Mrs. Nichols indicates that her book is not intended as "a learned treatise" (p.
                    ix). She does, however, offer a variety of interesting and informative sketches and episodes
                    concerning the Kankakee River and the inhabitants of its valley from Indian
                    occupation to the 1940's. The importance of the now vanished Grand Marsh as a mecca for
                    hunters and trappers is vividly described. Readers not acquainted with the fact that a considerable
                    amount of native hardwoods once grew along streams and islands will be surprised to read of the
                    manner in which such timber was largely destroyed, principally during the early twentieth century
                    (p. 187).
            
            
               The Middle West in American History. By Dan Elbert Clark. Reprint. (
                        New York
                    : Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1966. Pp. vii, 232. Maps, notes. Paperbound,
                    $2.50.) The text on which this volume is based originally appeared as Part II of the late
                    Dan Elbert Clark's The West in American History (1937). This paperbound
                    reprint includes revisions by Ray Allen Billington "to embrace the findings of later
                    scholarship" (p. iii), but the style and basic content approximate that of the original. It
                    would probably have been more appropriate to have reproduced Clark's text unchanged with
                    editorial comments as needed. The lack of an index and the failure to reproduce Clark's
                    bibliographical material are unfortunate omissions. In any event, Part II of Clark's The West in American History remains one of the most readable and useful accounts
                    of the American Middle West in frontier days.
            
               A Guide to the Military Posts of the 
                            United States
                        , 1789–1895. By Francis Paul Prucha. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1964. Pp. xiii, 178. Notes, maps, illustrations, appendices, bibliography.
                    $7.50.) Father Prucha's well known competence as regards Indian and military
                    history makes him a well qualified author for this volume. He concentrates on regular army posts of
                    the 
                        United States
                     from 1789 until 1895. The initial portion of this book discusses the general
                    development of the military frontier from period to period with maps showing posts at particular
                    dates or milestones. The second part offers an alphabetical catalog of army posts in the continental 
                        United States
                    , 1789–1895. Subsequent portions present maps of military posts for the
                    various sections of the 
                        United States
                    , supplemental information, and a selected bibliography. Plate 14 (pp. 38–39)
                    showing regular army posts in Indiana before 1895 should be of particular interest to students of
                    Indiana history.
            
               Milwaukee: The History of a City. By Bayrd Still. Second printing. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1965. Pp. xii, 638. Notes, illustrations, appendix, bibliographical note, index.
                    $8.50.) Although this volume is listed as a second printing, the author's
                    Preface states that some revisions have been included which modify the text of the 1948 copy. Still
                    describes his volume as "a success story in American urban development—the
                    chronicle of a city that grew from a wilderness trading post to an admired industrial metropolis in
                    less than a hundred years" (p. vii). Since Milwaukee: The History of a
                    City is one of the better known and valued histories of an important 
                        American city
                    , it is fortunate that it is now made available to additional readers.
                    Milwaukee's historical development and size seemingly offer interesting parallels to that
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . At least, such a history of the Hoosier capital is much needed.
            
               The Smithsonian Institution. Narrative by Walter Karp. ([
                        Washington
                    , D.C.]: The Smithsonian Institution, in association with the editors of American Heritage Magazine, [1965]. Pp. 125. Illustrations, Index.) This brief and
                    abundantly illustrated volume offers a fascinating  account of
                    the origin and development of the Smithsonian Institution. James Smithson, an Englishman who never
                    visited the 
                        United States
                    , left his legacy to a nephew with the provision that should the latter die without an
                    heir the estate would go "to the 
                        United States
                     of America, to found at 
                        Washington
                    , under the name of the Smithsonian institution, an establishment for the increase and
                    diffusion of Knowledge among men" (p. 9). The nephew died heirless in 1835 and
                    $242,000 of interest accumulated from the legacy while Congress delayed and debated how
                    it should be used. The interest provided the money for an initial building—perhaps the
                    delay of Congress was a blessing in disguise! Robert Dale Owen of 
                        New Harmony
                     had an important part in the design of this building. Joseph Henry, the
                    institution's first secretary, emphasized research and publication. The original priority
                    was on natural sciences, followed by varied and augmented programs in other areas. The Smithsonian
                    Institution is an excellent example of outstanding achievement made possible by a combination of
                    public and private support.
            
               Young Henry Ford: A Picture History of the First Forty Yews. By Sidney Olson. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1963. Pp. 188. Illustrations, index. $9.95.) Sidney
                    Olson has combined narrative and numerous illustrations to tell the story of approximately the first
                    four decades of Henry Ford's life. Although this volume lacks citations and a bibliography,
                    it obviously is based on voluminous information.
            Other Books and Pamphlets Received:
            
               The Potawatomi Indians of Southwestern 
                            Michigan
                        . By Everett Claspy. 
                        Dowagiac
                    , Mich.: The Author, 1966. Pp. v, 43. Notes. Paperbound, $1.00.)
            
               
                  
                            Wisconsin
                        's Civil War Archives. Compiled by William G. Paul. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1965. Pp. v, 66. Bibliography. Paperbound, $1.00.)
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Secretary Goes West: Two Reports by John G. Nicolay on Frontier Indian
                        Troubles, 1862. Edited by Theodore C. Blegen. (La Crosse, Wis.: Sumac Press, 1965. Pp. 69.
                    Notes, illustrations. $3.00.)
            
               Shadow of a Star. By Jamie Lee Cooper. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1965. Pp. 279. Notes. $4.50.)
            
               Archeology and the Historical Society. By J. C. Harrington. (
                        Nashville
                    , Tenn.: The American Association for State and Local History, 1965. Pp. 48.
                    Illustrations, selected references. Paperbound, $1.00.)
            
               A Brief History of the 
                            United States
                         Marine Corps. By Major Norman W. Hicks. Revised edition. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Marine Corps, 1964. Pp. iv, 57. Appendices, selected bibliography. Paperbound.)
            
            
               An Annotated Bibliography of the 
                            United States
                         Marine Corps in the Second World War. Compiled by Michael O'Quinlivan
                    and Jack B. Hilliard. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Marine Corps, 1965. Pp. ii, 42. Paperbound.)
            
               A Chronology of the 
                            United States
                         Marine Corps, 1775–1934. Volume I. By Colonel William M. Miller and
                    Major John H. Johnstone. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Marine Corps, 1965. Pp. v, 129. Paperbound.)
            
               A Chronology of the 
                            United States
                         Marine Corps, 1935–1946. Volume II. By Carolyn A. Tyson. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Marine Corps, 1965. Pp. xv, 139. Paperbound.)
            
               Marines in 
                            Lebanon
                        , 1958. By Jack Shulimson. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Marine Corps, 1966. Pp. 50. Maps, illustrations. Paperbound.)
         
         
         
            Books on Indiana and the Middle West
            The Indiana University Press has available the following titles concerning Indiana and the Middle
                    West:
            
               The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 18151840. By R. Carlyle Buley. This is
                    a Pulitzer Prize winning history of the settling of Ohio, Indiana , Illinois, Michigan, and
                    Wisconsin. 2 volumes, 1,339 pages, illustrated $17.50
            
               The Angel and the Serpent: The Story of New Harmony. by William E. Wilson. This
                    work is a full-length history of New Harmony, Indiana, and the unique communal living experiments
                    attempted there by George Rapp's Harmonists and Robert Owen's idealists. 242
                    pages, illustrated $6.95
            
               Southern Indiana. Photographed by Hartley Alley with text by Jean Alley. The Alleys
                    have captured the spirit and scenery of southern Indiana in picture and text. 128 pages, 180
                    photographs Paperbound, $2.95; clothbound, $5.00
            
               Indiana: A History. By William E. Wilson. Wilson's book is a comprehensive and
                    highly readable history of the Hoosier State from the time it belonged to the Indianas for whom it
                    was named until the present. 384 pages, illustrated Coming in October
                    $6.95
            
               Indiana: A SelfAppraisal. Edited by Donald F. Carmony. The fifteen
                    chapters in this work provide an assessment of Indiana, its national role, its human and natural
                    resources, and its future possibilities, by leading Hoosier businessmen, journalists, government
                    officials, and educators. 224 pages Coming in November $3.95
                
            Persons desiring to purchase the above volumes should write to the Indiana University Press, 601
                    North Morton, Bloomington, Indiana 47401.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
