
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 26, Issue 1, pages 1-75. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:26+issue:1+year:1930&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Lucius Burris Swift1
            
            By JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN
            
            When a man of significance passes from the field of action, his fellow citizens should take some note
                    of him. Some record should be made of his life and services. The State should honor those who have
                    honored the State.
            A man of this kind was Lucius B. Swift. It seems to me the Indiana Historical Society would do well
                    to place in its archives some record of the services and character of such a man. It is a matter of
                    good fortune to Indiana that the Hon. William Dudley Foulke is preparing a volume on the Life and Services of Mr. Swift. By this Mr. Foulke will put his fellow citizens
                    under renewed obligations to him. It will be a labor of love. Certain it is, that no other living
                    man could perform this task so well as Mr. Foulke. For a long period of years he was the companion
                    in arms with Mr. Swift battling for the cause of good government on many a hard fought field. That
                    life of Swift will be a work complete and authoritative. I can attempt here only a brief sketch and
                    appreciation.
            What I say is prompted by my desire to have our Society give suitable recognition to Mr. Swift, and
                    is inspired by my admiration for the man and my ardent sympathy for the cause to which he gave a
                    life's devotion.
            Mr. Swift was born in 
                        Orleans County
                    , 
                        New York
                    , July 31, 1844, a county in the northwestern corner of the State. He died in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , July 3, 1929, four weeks short of eighty-five years of age. He was the youngest of
                    seven children and was of 
                        New England
                     lineage. An ancestor, William Swift, settled on Cape Cod in the 
                        Massachusetts
                    
                    
                  
                     1 This paper was read at the luncheon of the Indiana Historical
                            Society at the Claypool Hotel, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , December 13, 1929.
               
                     Bay Colony in 1637. Lucius Swift's father was a pioneer
                    farmer in northwestern 
                        New York
                    , near the shores of Lake Ontario. As a farmer's son,
                    young Swift grew up to the life of the farm, learning about the cultivation of the soil, clearing
                    the timber, raking, binding, and hauling the crops. His farm life and labor developed a healthy and
                    sturdy body.
            At the opening of the Civil War in 1861, Swift enlisted in the Union army, at sixteen years of age.
                    He drilled awhile, then was rejected because of his youth. His company marched off without him. He
                    borrowed money, ran off and joined the company in 
                        Maryland
                    . There, by what Mr. Meredith Nichol-son has called "a patriotic
                    fiction" his age was put down at eighteen, and he was accepted. "In all his long
                    life," says Mr. Nicholson, "Swift never again lent himself to duplicity. We can
                    forgive him because of his callow youth and his purpose."
            During his soldier life in the war he was captured twice, once in the Shenandoah
                    Valley in one of Stonewall Jackson's valley campaigns; the
                    second time at Chancellorsville, in Jackson's famous flanking movement in that great
                    battle. After his first capture he was a prisoner nine weeks at Belle Isle; after his second he was
                    paroled from Libby Prison in twelve days. Swift's paper on the battle of Chancellorsville
                    reveals the understanding he had of military movements, his estimate of his commanders, his
                    appreciation of his comrades and of life in the army. It is evident that he looked upon the war with
                    eyes of unusual intelligence.
            After the war was over he was discharged as a Sergeant in June, 1865. He went back to school and to
                    the labor of the old farm. During his after life he spoke but little of his military service. He was
                    essentially a civilian. Mr. Foulke and Mr. Nicholson both testify that they had known him for ten
                    years before they learned of his war record.
            Young Swift was ambitious for an education beyond the common schools. He cast about in his mind for a
                    college in which he could receive the training he desired. He chose the University of 
                        Michigan
                     as the institution offering the best chance to a poor boy, and also because the
                    University would take him without preparation in Greek—being an exception in that respect
                    to most institutions of higher learning at that time. From 
                        Michigan
                     University he received the degree  of Bachelor of
                    Philosophy (Ph.B.), with the class of 1870. Forty-nine years later, in 1919, his University called
                    him to its commencement to receive its highest honor, the honorary degree of LL.D., in recognition
                    of his valiant and eminent services to the civil life of his State, and of his unselfish and
                    untiring efforts in behalf of clean politics.
            After his graduation, Swift spent two years studying law in a law office in Medina, 
                        New York
                    , in his native county. He then turned to teaching as a means of paying his college
                    debts. On the recommendation of his University, he received a teaching appointment in LaPorte,
                    Indiana, as Principal of the High School, and he later became the Superintendent of Schools of that
                    city. In 1879, he gave up his educational work, came to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , entered upon the practice of law, and lived and worked in this city the rest of his
                    days—a period of just fifty years. When he came, he knew just one person in the whole
                    city, namely, James H. Smart, the State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
            While Mr. Swift was teaching in LaPorte he induced a young woman from 
                        New York
                    , Miss Mary Ella Lyon, to join his teaching staff as his assistant. She was his
                    assistant to the day of his death. Mr. Swift and Miss Lyon were married in Medina, 
                        New York
                    , on July 6, 1876. Mrs. Swift was a graduate of Elmira College, in 
                        New York
                    , the "Mother of Women's Colleges." She became her
                    husband's constant co-worker, sharing his public spirit in full measure. She shared his
                    labors in his law office; she helped him constantly in his endeavors for civil service reform; she
                    helped him in his domestic economy, or he helped her. While they were striving for a foothold in 
                        Indianapolis
                     they lived, for eight years, in three rooms where Mrs. Swift did her own housework, in
                    addition to assisting in the law cases. The young lawyer, without business or social connections was
                    striving for a place amid an able bar. Benjamin Harrison, William Henry H. Miller, John M. Butler,
                    John T. Dye, William P. Fishback, Joseph E. McDonald, Thomas A. Hendricks—such lawyers
                    gave the 
                        Indianapolis
                     bar an unusual distinction. Swift attained an honorable place at that bar and he
                    retained it to the end, with the respect of his colleagues. He did not win as large a practice as he
                    might have done had he devoted him-self entirely to the law, but he made a good living in an
                    honorable  practice and he won the respect of his fellow lawyers
                    and his fellow citizens.
            He soon became interested in politics. Not in seeking office—that he never
                    did—but in the conduct of public business. To him politics was a serious thing, a noble
                    science. He was not greatly interested in party management and manipulation, but chiefly in honest
                    administration of public office. He read the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening Post, the Nation (E. L. Godkin) and Harper's Weekly when edited by George William Curtis. I know well from experience
                    the kind of editorials that were coming to him from Curtis. Curtis was President of the National
                    Civil Service Reform League in those days. Swift naturally and quickly reacted against the
                    corruptions of Grant's administration. He witnessed bossism, plunder, the bestowal of
                    offices upon henchmen for party service, the removal of honest and efficient officers to make places
                    for these party workers—all this struck him as wholly irreconcilable with American
                    democracy and with the spirit and promise of American institutions. It was then, in young manhood,
                    that he devoted his talents and his life to the cause of civil service reform. The cause needed a
                    champion in Indiana.
            In his early life Swift had been an anti-slavery Republican. In 1884 be became a
                    Mugwump—one of a few in Indiana—still a follower of Godkin, Curtis and Schurz.
                    He gave some time and effort in that year to the defeat of Blaine and to the election of 
                        Cleveland
                     in Indiana.
            On January 8, 1885, he gave an address on the merit system before the Friederker Verein in 
                        Indianapolis
                    —an address which has been called the first public utterance on the subject
                    in Indiana. Of that I am not certain. President Bryan, of Indiana University, gave a contest oration
                    on the subject in 1884, while he was a senior in college, and President Jordan, of the University,
                    gave early public utterances for the cause. However that may be, Swift's address deserves
                    high credit and the publicity it received. He was breaking ground, like the pioneer, and, if need
                    be, he was ready to stand alone for his convictions. Horace White brought his address to the
                    attention of Carl Schurz and George William Curtis, and Curtis called it "the best thing he
                    had seen on the subject," and he said that it was strange  the cause had taken root in Indiana." Indiana was good soil for the seed and what Swift
                    sowed brought forth fruit a hundredfold.
            Swift now began to expose the evils in the management of Indiana's benevolent institutions.
                    They had been made the spoils of politics. Jobs and contracts were awarded to political favorites.
                    An Indiana Civil Service Reform Association was organized, with Swift and Foulke the moving spirits.
                    One of its committees, with Swift on the job, subjected the Indiana Hospital for the Insane to a
                    searching investigation. What did they find? The Democratic party, which Mr. Swift had helped to
                    bring into power in Indiana, was using the Hospital to strengthen the party machinery. Party was
                    nothing to Swift, only an agency, a means to an end. It was the cause he cared for, the cause of
                    decent and honest government. Without compensation of any kind he spent weeks gathering evidence for
                    a State Senate investigating committee. The result was a report of over 1300 pages, with evidence of
                    favoritism, dishonesty in contracts, drunkenness and immorality among attendants, the cruel beating
                    of patients, furnishing tainted food—all were brought out by the evidence which Swift had
                    gathered. Here began the process, the valiant struggle (let us thank Mr. Swift, Mr. Foulke and their
                    compatriots) by which the Indiana Benevolent Institutions were taken out of politics and established
                    upon a business and humanitarian basis.
            Very forcibly does Mr. Nicholson ask, "What did Mr. Swift get for his pains? Abuse, obloquy,
                    ridicule, the loss of clients, especially one business man who had been one of the favored
                    contractors."
            Verily it is always so. The silversmiths and men of Ephesus still shout in derision and opposition
                    when their gains are threatened.
            In 1886, Swift prepared a pamphlet showing how the National Civil Service Law (of 1883) was being
                    evaded in Indiana. He fortified himself with facts, as was his custom, and then went after the Post
                    Office management in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . What a thankless task was that However, the spoils-man and the time-serving politician
                    always found Swift, armed as he was in a good cause, a dangerous man to meet in such a controversy.
                    Never losing his temper, having no  motive but to render a public
                    service, believing that a public office is a public trust, and always acting on that principle, he
                    moved steadily on his way, unmoved by criticism, undisturbed by the sneering question why he was
                    putting himself into matters that were none of his business. Idealism had no business injecting
                    itself into politics.
            Mr. Swift showed from the evidence that a man indicted for a felony had been given a job in the Post
                    Office, as a re-ward for rounding up votes from the under world; that sacks of mail were allowed to
                    lie till the rats gnawed into them; that spoils were putting inefficient men into the service.
            In 1888, Mr. Swift met Theodore Roosevelt in the office of Charles J. Bonaparte in 
                        Baltimore
                    , and there began a cordial and intimate friendship between the two men that lasted till
                    the end. In 1889, Roosevelt was appointed by President Harrison as Civil Service Commissioner, and
                    in that year, at Mr. Swift's invitation, he came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to investigate the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Post Office. He was entertained at the Swifts and on that occasion Mrs. Swift was the
                    culinary artist as well as the maid in the preparation of the meals.
            In after years when Roosevelt was President, or had been President, or when it was thought he might
                    be President again, if he wanted to know the truth about men in Indiana, he consulted Swift. He knew
                    that he would get a report absolutely fair and just from a man without any axes to grind. The
                    politicians might ignore or attempt to thrust aside this "snivel service
                    reformer," but Roosevelt preferred Swift, who it was seen stood in with the great President
                    in the days of his power and glory.
            In 1916 (May 2), a public dinner was given at the Claypool Hotel in this city in honor of Mr. Swift.
                    I had the pleasure to attend on that occasion. To that dinner Mr. Roosevelt sent his sincere regrets
                    that he could not be present. He said: "Mr. Swift has combined to a peculiar degree the
                    qualities we like to think of as typical of the American citizen at his best. I have never met in
                    public or private life a more entirely fearless and disinterested foe of every form of political
                    corruption. Moreover, unlike many reformers of fearlessness and zeal, he has always kept a sane and
                    well balanced judgment."
            In 1889 (Feb. 24), a conference of civil service reformers  was
                    held in 
                        Baltimore
                    . It was a meeting of the National Civil Service Reform League. It pleases me to
                    remember that I was one of the three delegates from Indiana. Swift and Foulke were the other two. I
                    was able to attend because I was then a graduate student of Johns-Hopkins University. I have always
                    deemed it an honor to have been associated even in a small way with these two men.
            In the middle eighties there was organized at Indiana university a branch of the Civil Service Reform
                    League. President David Starr Jordan was its President, and I had the honor to be its Secretary. On
                    the invitation of President Jordan and of that League, Mr. Swift came to the University in April,
                    1888, and delivered an address before the students on the evils of the spoils system. He delivered
                    the same address at 
                        Richmond
                     in that year. It was a keen and masterful analysis. The title of the address was
                    "The American Feudal System." I am glad to recall that I helped along in the
                    applause that greeted that address.
            At that time he found candidates for Congress contracting with their supporters to sublet the
                    patronage within their districts. Throughout the 
                        United States
                     the Federal offices were distributed by Congressmen, though there was not a line or a
                    syllable in the constitution or the law that gives to any member of Congress the right to interfere
                    or dictate in appointments. The exercise of such a power was neither warranted nor excused by law,
                    yet the distribution of Federal offices had become the chief occupation of Congressmen.
            Mr. Swift showed how the system obstructed the public business, and prevented the members of Congress
                    from coming to know questions of state. The appointee must be the Congressman's man,
                    drawing pay from the public treasury but devoting his time to the service of his patron, his
                    over-lord. If he failed in his service he forfeited his holding. It was exactly as it was under old
                    mediaeval feudalism. The serf kneeling before his lord, with his hand in the hand of his over-lord
                    promised to be his man of life and limb and of earthly honor. If he failed to
                    serve the holding reverted. The feudal baron of old looked over the territory allotted to him by his
                    conquering chief. He thought and planned, not how he could make the burden of the people light, nor
                    how he could contribute to the good government of the realm, but 
                    what men if given holdings upon a bond of allegiance would best help him to keep what he had and get
                    more. In exactly the same spirit the Congressman viewed his territory and assigned government
                    positions. The abuse was rooted in every part of our political system.
            In the day of unbridled power, on the part of members of the upper House, Senator Cameron controlled 
                        Pennsylvania
                     through his friends and tools. Senator Conkling controlled absolutely the 10,000
                    place-holders of his State of 
                        New York
                    . Tom Murphy was given the most lucrative office in 
                        New York
                    , as Collector of Customs, and he was expected to bring the 4,000 employees of the
                    Custom House to work for Conkling and the party cause. All officeholders contributed to the party
                    funds.
            Thugs and outlaws were appointed to places. Under 
                        Cleveland
                    , Higgins in 
                        Maryland
                    , a henchman of Senator Gorman, had reversed an election by getting possession of the
                    ballot boxes after the polls were closed, burning the ballots of one party and substituting those of
                    another. Yet this dishonest business man, a ballot box stuffer, a fraudulent bankrupt, was retained
                    in office because he could round up votes for his chieftain.
            Such were the abuses which Swift encountered. Valiantly, with speech and pen, he sought to inform his
                    fellow citizens, to prick their consciences and to arouse them from their apathy. He brought to his
                    task a fine English style. His articles and speeches were fine specimens of English, clear, direct,
                    straight forward, interesting and spicy reading. Any fair, unprejudiced, open-minded man he would
                    carry with him to his conclusion.
            In 1889, Swift founded the Civil Service Chronicle, a monthly journal, here in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which he and his wife edited for seven years, till 1896. I was one of its subscribers.
                    It was an effective educational agency in promoting the re-form and it steadily helped to swell the
                    stream of public sentiment against the evils of the spoils system. The Chronicle
                    was ably edited, dealing vigorous blows for the cause. Steadily, month by month, the sentinels were
                    on guard. An aroused sentiment forced lip service to the cause of reform from both political
                    parties. They were ready to promise, but not to perform. Swift wanted performance, and  he steadily insisted that the parties should be held to the standard
                    and to their promises.
            During the World War, before we were in the war, Mr. Swift's sympathies went out strongly
                    toward the Allies and against the Central Powers. This was partly because of his Anglo-Saxon
                    ancestry but largely because of his training and deep seated faith in the fundamental principles of
                    democracy and of constitutional government—principles which had been shared and defended
                    by thousands of 
                        German
                    -Americans as well as by Anglo-Americans. He hated Prussian militarism and he wanted no
                    divided or hyphenated allegiance in America. His address on "Germans in America"
                    which was circulated by the thousands, was written not because he disliked Germans; he admired them
                    and he had many friends among his fellow citizens of 
                        German
                     ancestry in his city. But he wrote that address from a sense of patriotic duty, because
                    he wished to set forth the nature and sources of our constitutional liberties and because he thought
                    that in the great war there was a real issue between the principles of American democracy and of
                    parliamentary government, upon the one hand, and of Prussian military autocracy, upon the other.
            After America entered the war, Mr. Swift became Chairman of the District Board at 
                        Indianapolis
                    —a court of appeals for thirty-seven Draft Boards. At this task he worked
                    hard and conscientiously, listening to appeals and passing on exemptions.
            After the war, he issued his latest formal production, a book on civil government entitled, How We Got Our Liberties. He was impelled to write this from a conviction that the
                    children of the public schools throughout our land should know better than they do the story of
                    democracy, of liberty and self- government. The book is a concise, clear, easily understood
                    narrative of the steps and struggles by which our liberties were attained, from Magna Charta to the
                    present day. It gives an interesting account of the way our Constitution was made, together with an
                    interesting interpretation of that document and its working. It is a book that should be in every
                    school library in America and on the desk of every teacher.
            Late in his life, in 1919, when he had passed his three score years and ten, Mr.
                    Swift was chosen to be a member  of the City Sanitary Commission
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He administered that office on the principles he had always professed, appointing
                    competent men on merit regardless of politics. The mayor of the city proposed to bring about his
                    removal; he had followers who were clamoring for jobs, and Swift refused to have the jobs awarded
                    for party and personal purposes. He withstood the clamor and the annoyance and the opposition of the
                    mayor. In a public statement Swift said: 
                        I have other work suspended that I would rather do, and I could resign and have peace. But
                            the law does not intend that a commissioner shall resign in the middle of his term because a
                            mayor comes demanding an opportunity to turn the Department into a political nest, and I
                            won't do it. Besides for more than thirty years I have fought against using the
                            civil service to pay political or personal debts and I will not now turn my back upon my
                            professions and by resigning aid the mayor to beat the law and complete his Tammanyization
                            of the entire civil service of the city.
                    
                
            Here was a man! It must have been this kind of a man that the poet, John G. Holland, had in mind when
                    he said fully sixty years ago: 
                        God give us men; tall men, sun-crowned; Men whom the lust of office cannot kill; Men whom the
                            spoils of office cannot buy; Men who possess opinions and a will; Men who can stand before a
                            demagogue And brave his treacherous flatteries without fear.
                    
                
            That was exactly the kind of a man Swift was. The only divinity we can know is a divinity incarnate,
                    not a far-away God of the imagination apart from human life. It is so with our citizenship. We can
                    have no understanding of good citizen-ship in the abstract. We must see it in action, personified,
                    embodied in the life of some real citizen—upstanding, of strong vigorous civic virtue.
                    That is the citizenship we see in Lucius B. Swift.
            Mr. William Dudley Foulke has pronounced him "the most public spirited man I have ever known
                    and the most unselfish in regard to his political convictions." He was of uncompromising
                    courage, of unquestioned integrity.
            When Mr. Meredith Nicholson was invited to write a magazine article on some outstanding citizen of
                    Indiana he could  not have chosen better than he did, when he
                    selected Mr. Swift as the subject of his sketch. Under the caption, "An American
                    Citizen," Mr. Nicholson has given us a fine estimate of Mr. Swift, of his work and
                    character. I beg to quote a passage from that characterization: 
                        I have never known a man," says Mr. Nicholson, "who would risk so much for
                            a cause as he. A foolish man, it may be said, to have spent so much time working for the
                            public interest where there was not the slightest chance that he would be thanked for it;
                            where, in fact, in most cases he laid himself open to abuse or ridicule in under-standing
                            disagreeable tasks which were, as he often heard, none of his business. Herein lies the
                            admirable, the distinguishing feature about him,—a conviction, deeply inbred in
                            his nature, that democracy presupposes the sincere interest and devoted service of every
                            individual and that the public business is every citizen's concern. Here is a man
                            in whom there was no bunk, who never sought the easier way, or evaded a responsibility. A
                            full life, a life of usefulness, void of low aims or mean ambition.2
                  
                    Those who knew Mr. Swift best will recognize the justice of this description.
            In closing this sketch, I cannot do better than to use the tribute to Lucius B. Swift by Wm. Dudley
                    Foulke: 
                        With dauntless courage and a vigorous mind, A simple nature, free from tricks of art; A soul
                            that bore good will to human kind, Save to the miscreants who defiled the State And seized
                            the plunder of the commonweal; For these he had full store of righteous hate And sought
                            their over-throw with ceaseless zeal; Unselfish, always quick to give or share The honor
                            that his tireless toil had won, Himself a shining light that shunned the glare Of
                            men's applause for simple duty done,— What words are fit his rugged
                            worth to tell? Comrade in many a struggle, fare thee well.
                    
                
            
               
                  2 Meredith Nicholson, "An American Citizen," in Scribner's Magazine, LXXII, 691-698.
            
         
         
         
            Francis Vigo∗
            
            By DOROTHY RIKER
            
            The name of Francis Vigo should be given a place at the head of any list which attempts to name those
                    men of foreign birth who have rendered valuable service to the 
                        United States
                    . Standing in the background of George Rogers Clark and his brilliant campaign in the
                    Northwest, he has been almost for-gotten, but if we pause to think of those men who made
                    Clark's expedition possible, the Italian, Francis Vigo, becomes a central figure.
            He was born in 
                        Mondovi
                     in northern 
                        Italy
                    ,1 on the territory then belonging to the Kingdom of Sardinia. The
                    date of his birth is in dispute, most authors giving either 1740 or 1747. Italian government
                    officials are now going through the baptismal records of the church at Mondovi in search of the
                    correct date.
            Nothing is known of his parents or early life. While still a youth, he enlisted as a private soldier
                    in a Spanish Regiment and in that capacity was sent to Havana, 
                        Cuba
                    . The portion of the regiment to which he belonged was later ordered to 
                        New Orleans
                    , which was then a Spanish post. Here the young soldier had the opportunity to becoming
                    acquainted with the fur traders who came to that town from the upper Mississippi
                    River country to exchange their furs for provisions and other supplies. Listening to
                    their tales of adventure and the possibilities of wealth, he became imbued with the desire to become
                    a trader. As soon as he could receive a discharge from the regiment, he started for the 
                        Arkansas country
                    , determined to secure furs for himself.
            In this new venture he was very successful. By his pleasing manner, he won the confidence of the
                    Indians as he later won that of the frontiersmen. When asked at one time why the Indians trusted
                    him, he replied: "I never deceive an Indian."2 Gradually
                    working his way north, by 1772, he reached 
                  
                     ∗ This paper was read at the annual Indiana History
                            Conference at 
                                Indianapolis
                             on December 13, 1929.
                  
                     1 The statement often made that Vigo was born on the island of
                            Sardinia arises from the fact that he was born on Sardinian territory. There is no town or
                            city by the name of Mondovi on the island.
                  
                     2 Hubbard M. Smith, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Vincennes
                            , 1902), 160.
               
                     the newly established trading post of 
                        St. Louis
                    .3 Here Vigo established his headquarters and became a partner in
                    the firm of Vigo and Yosti, the latter, Emilien, being a kinsman of Vigo.4 From
                    this center he carried on his trade, buying furs of the neighboring Indians and selling supplies to
                    the settlers. Both Indians and settlers looked upon him as their friend. In 1778 when Fernando de
                    Leyba was made Lieutenant Governor of 
                        Louisiana
                     with his official residence at 
                        St. Louis
                    , he became a silent partner of Vigo in his trading enterprises.5
            
            Francis Vigo was a Roman Catholic and a member of Father Pierre Gibault's congregation. The
                    latter had been made Vicar General for the Bishop of Quebec in the 
                        Illinois
                     territory and helped to organize the Catholic Church in 
                        St. Louis
                    .6
            
            Vigo was interested in the American Revolution from the few reports that reached him of that
                    struggle. After the capture of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     by Clark, he came into closer contact with the Americans and decided to espouse their
                    cause openly.
            Previously to this time, the Spanish authorities in 
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     had been giving aid to the Americans, although the mother country was not yet at war
                    with 
                        England
                    . 
                        Spain
                     had no love for 
                        England
                     for she had not forgot-ten the loss of the Floridas, ceded to the British in 1763 at
                    the end of the Seven Years' war. Nor did she have any love for the revolting colonies,
                    fearing that their war for independence would kindle a flame in her own South American colonies and
                    cause them to revolt. Moreover, 
                        Spain
                     did have ambitions and saw the economic opportunities offered in the way of trade
                    should the American colonies become independent.7
            
            The man who helped to secure this Spanish aid was Oliver Pollock, an Irish immigrant to the 
                        United States
                     who was engaged in the mercantile business in 
                        New Orleans
                    . He had gained a high reputation for himself in business circles and was on friendly
                    terms with the Spanish authorities. Being also a zealous patriot of the American cause he was
                    selected 
                  
                     3 Louis Houck, A History of 
                                    Missouri
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 51-52.
                  
                     4 Thomas Scharf, History of 
                                    St. Louis City
                                 and County (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1883), I, 191.
                  
                     5
                            Draper Collection, Clark Mss. 8, p. 33. Quoted in Cecil Chamberlain.
                            "Colonel Francis Vigo and George Rogers Clark," in 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Catholic Historical Review, X, 139.
                  
                     6 Henry S. Cauthorn, A History of the City of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Vincennes
                            , 1901), 177.
                  
                     7 James A. James, "Spanish Influence in the West during the
                            American Revolution," in 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review. IV, 202.
               
                     as commercial agent for 
                        Virginia
                     and later for the United Colonies. He was able to secure aid from the Spanish governor,
                    Don Bernardo de Galvez, in the form of special privileges for American ships in 
                        New Orleans
                    , and in the permission to send arms and ammunition to the colonies by way of the
                        Mississippi River.8 When Fernando de Leyba reached 
                        St. Louis
                     in June, 1778, he at once communicated with Clark, expressing his friendship for the
                    Americans. He influenced the Indians in favor of the Americans, transferred supplies shipped by
                    Galvez, and invited Clark to his home.9
            
            Vigo was no doubt encouraged to help Clark by this sympathetic attitude of the Spanish authorities
                    and also by Father Gibault who had given such valuable assistance to Clark at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and later at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The latter was by this time in desperate need of money and supplies. His methods of
                    paying for supplies were by 
                        Virginia
                     paper currency, drafts upon 
                        Virginia
                    , or by drafts upon Pollock in 
                        New Orleans
                    .10
                    
                        Virginia
                     paper currency was a depreciated form of money and its scale of depreciation continued
                    to fluctuate. The inhabitants of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and the surrounding country were not accustomed to this kind of money and were very
                    reluctant to accept it. Here Vigo was of great service, backing Clark's paper money with
                    his own, and furnishing supplies out of his own stores. He also lent Clark money, receiving drafts
                    upon Pollock in return. The first draft, dated December 4, 1778, was for $8,716.40. The
                    others were smaller, amounting to about $2,500 in all.11 With this
                    help and that of a few other French traders Clark was able to maintain his little army.
            Meanwhile, Captain Helm who had been placed in charge at 
                        Vincennes
                     after the peaceful surrender of that post through the efforts of Father Gibault, was in
                    need of supplies and equipment. Vigo consented to go and to provide the necessary articles as he had
                    a store at that place and was well known among the French and Creole inhabitants. He set out 
                  
                     8 James A. James, "Oliver Pollock, Financier of the
                            Revolution in the West," in ibid., XVI, 71-76.
                  
                     9 A. P. Nasatir, "The Anglo-Spanish Frontier in the 
                                Illinois Country
                             during the American Revolution 1779-1783," in Journal of
                                the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, XXI, 299-306.
                  
                     10 James G. Randall, "Clark's Service of
                            Supply," in 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, VIII, 257-58.
                  
                     11 30 Cong., 1 Sess., House of Representatives, Report, No. 216.
               
                     on December 1812 all unaware that the
                    previous day 
                        Vincennes
                     had been recaptured by the British under the command of General Henry Hamilton.
                    Arriving within six miles of the village, Vigo was surprised and taken captive by a band of Indians
                    in charge of a British soldier. He was taken be-fore 
                        Hamilton
                    , who held him a prisoner for several days. Although he may have suspected Vigo of being
                    friendly with the Americans, he could prove nothing and released him after making him promise that
                    he would do nothing detrimental to the British cause on his way back to 
                        St. Louis
                    . Vigo kept this promise, but as soon as he reached that place he set out again for 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . He reached there on January 29 and gave Clark the first authentic information that he
                    had received of the recapture of 
                        Vincennes
                     by the British. After learning from Vigo of the strength of 
                        Hamilton
                    's forces, their prospects of reënforcements in the spring, and the
                    fact that they were not expecting any attack during the winter, Clark decided on the bold move of
                    marching to 
                        Vincennes
                     be-fore spring and surprising the British.13 The story of that
                    famous march and its results is familiar to all.
            Vigo continued to be in close touch with Clark and lent him money as late as June, 1779. During the
                    winter of 1779-80, Vigo and other traders went to 
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
               , to see about
                    supplies and to plan to organize the Indians for a better union with the Americans.14 In the spring of 1780 we find him a member of the Spanish militia at 
                        St. Louis
                    
               15 which was organized to protect that city from attack. Fernando de
                    Leyba died that year and named Francis Vigo as executor in his will.16
            
            Sometime between 1780 and 1783, Vigo moved to 
                        Vincennes
                     where he made his home the remainder of his life. When he changed his residence, he
                    benefited by the two land acts of Congress passed in 1788 and 1791 granting four hundred acres of
                    land to heads of families who had been residing 
                  
                     12 "Memorial of Francis Vigo" in the House of
                            Representatives, Report, No. 216, 30 Cong., 1 Sess.
                  
                     13 "Clark's Memoir," in 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Historical Collections, edited by James A. James, VIII, 266-67.
                            (George Rogers Clark Papers 1771-1781)
                  
                     14 George A. Brennan, "DeLinctot, Guardian of the
                            Frontier," in Journal of 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, X, 377.
                  
                     15 Louis Houck, Spanish Regime in 
                                    Missouri
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1909), I, 184.
                  
                     16 Sehart, History of 
                                    St. Louis City
                                 and County, I, 176. A copy of the records showing the disposal of his
                            effects is among the Vigo Papers. These constitute a group of unpublished papers now in the
                            possession of the Francis Vigo Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution at 
                                Vincennes
                            .
               
                     in 
                        Vincennes
                     since 1783, and had taken the oath of allegiance to the 
                        United States
                    . Besides the four hundred acres which were given him, he became through purchase the
                    owner of many of the other parcels of land that were given by Congress to other inhabitants. In 1804
                    when the 
                        United States
                     land commissioners visited 
                        Vincennes
                     he was judged to be the largest land-holder in that vicinity.17
            
            He continued to carry on his fur trading activities, sending his furs to 
                        Detroit
                     by way of Miamitown where 
                        Fort Wayne
                     now stands. He had as his associates in business at this time Pierre Menard, later
                    governor of 
                        Illinois
                    , and Toussaint Dubois, for whom 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana, was named. Vigo became an influential citizen, taking part in all the
                    important affairs of the village of 
                        Vincennes
                     which was soon to become the capital of Indiana Territory.
            The fur trading business was especially lucrative at this time, since during the years of peace after
                    1783, the demand for furs was large and prices were high. The British merchants at 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Montreal
                     had been receiving most of the furs of the old Northwest and the cession of that
                    country in 1783 to the new 
                        United States
                     produced alarm and indignation among them. They determined to keep this fur trade and
                    to hold the posts south of the Great Lakes. In this they were successful for
                    several years, and the Maumee and Wabash furs continued to go to 
                        Detroit
                     and into the storerooms of British traders.
            The 
                        United States
                     government sought to regulate the western trade by establishing an Indian Department.
                    Every trader was to have a license and to obey the regulations made for him. Vigo received a license
                    to trade with Choctaws and Chickasaws.18 The government also tried to divert the
                    trade and send it to American merchants in the East. Vigo shipped part of his packs that way, but
                    the larger part still went to 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Montreal
                    .19 In 1784, while on a business trip to 
                        Detroit
                    , he was arrested by a British officer, Captain Bird, for the part he had taken in
                    Clark's expedition. He obtained 
                  
                     17 Cauthorn, History of the City of of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                     , 178.
                  
                     18 Henry Knox to Francis Vigo, December 30, 1790, House of
                            Representatives. Report, No. 216, 30 Cong., 1 Sess.
                  
                     19
                            Early Western Travels, edited by Reuben G. Thwaites (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904), III. (Andre Michaux's Travels iito 
                                    Kentucky
                                , 1793-96); St. Clair Papers, edited by William H. Smith (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1882), II, 175.
               
                     his release after giving security to the amount of five thousand
                    pounds Sterling.20
            
            John Askin was one of the 
                        Detroit
                     merchants with whom Vigo did a large part of his business. The Miami Company which was
                    organized in 1786 was made up of merchants such as Askin, James Abbott, Leith and Shepherd, Sharp
                    and Wallace. They had traders at various posts, among others, Adhemar St. Martin at Miamitown. Vigo
                    belonged to the class of sub-agents who fitted out small traders with minor equipments. These in
                    turn went out and bought furs from the Indians.21 Owing to various reasons, the
                    Company did not prosper. The heavy demand for furs immediately following the Revolution soon
                    subsided. The markets became over-stocked and prices began to fall. Askin's traders bought
                    on a commission basis, thus causing competition among them-selves, which in turn led to the purchase
                    of all sorts of furs. Many were of inferior quality and would not sell in 
                        London
                     for their initial cost. Askin shipped his furs to the firm of Todd and McGill at 
                        Montreal
                    , who shipped them on to 
                        London
                    . In a letter from these gentlemen to Askin, written in 1786, they complained as
                    follows: "Part of the Packs A B being come to hand we cannot help taking notice to you of
                    their apparently inferior quality, they appear all to be long hair skins, which are of all the
                    others the worst; … if you do not adopt some measure to prevent the Traders from taking
                    such trash, ruin must insue infallibly."22
            
            Other factors affecting the fur trade were the Indian wars, the French Revolution which precipitated
                    a panic among fur dealers, and the entrance of Great Britain into the continental wars in 1793.
                    These events hurt both the small traders and the large merchants. Vigo suffered greatly. He got a
                    very low price for his furs while he had to pay high prices for merchandise. He soon became heavily
                    in debt. The Miami Company broke up by 1790, James Abbott agreeing to accept for his portion of the
                    debts due the company, the amount owed by Vigo. Some of Vigo's other creditors were John
                    Askin, the T. Williams Company and Andrew Holmes. A severe illness during the years from 1798 to
                    1800 
                  
                     20 Vigo Papers, No. 247.
                  
                     21
                            John Askin Papers, edited by Milo M. Quaife (
                                Detroit
                            , 1928), I, 275.
                  
                     22 Todd & McDill to John Askin, 
                                Montreal
                            , July 16, 1786, in 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Historical Collections, XIX, 265-266. (This letter is from the Burton
                            Historical Collection, now in the Public Library. 
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     .)
               
                     put his affairs into further confusion. He was forced to
                    mortgage much of his land as security for the payment of his debts. He consulted Governor Arthur St.
                    Clair and Judge Jacob Burnet concerning the large draft (he had already sold the three small ones at
                    a great loss) that he held on Oliver Pollock, hoping that he could collect on it. At the close of
                    his conference with these men he intended to leave the draft with them (and believed that he had
                    done so) in order that they might do what they could to secure payment. Later, in 1834, when the
                    claim came up in Congress the draft could not be found either among the papers of St. Clair and
                    Burnet, or of Vigo.
            Vigo was married to Elizabeth Shannon of 
                        Vincennes
                    . The date of their marriage is not known, but she signed the first deed as
                    Vigo's wife in 1793. She was somewhat younger than her husband, the date of her birth being
                    1770. One of her sisters, Sarah, married Samuel McKee, an army surgeon at Fort 
                        Knox
                    . Their two sons, Francis and Archibald, were named as legatees in Vigo's will.
                    Mary Shannon, another sister, married Robert Buntin.
            Francis Vigo acquired his military title when he was appointed a colonel in the First Regiment of 
                        Knox County
                     militia by Governor Arthur St. Clair. In a report made to President Washington, St.
                    Clair spoke of him as being a very active officer.23 He held this position until
                    1810 when he resigned on account of his health. Waller Taylor, then commander-in-chief of the
                    militia, sent him a letter of appreciation and thanks for the long service he had given the 
                        United States
                     in that capacity.24
            
            Vigo had the opportunity to render service to his government on several other occasions. In 1787, he
                    furnished the troops under Major John Francis Hamtramck's command at 
                        Vincennes
                     with sixteen or seventeen thousand rations at a time when provisions could not be
                    brought in.25 He performed services for General Anthony Wayne similar to those
                    performed for Clark by informing him of the number and designs of the enemy.26
                    In December, 1790, General Henry Knox, Secretary of War, asked him to deliver two talks each to the
                    Chickasaw 
                  
                     23
                            St. Clair Papers, II, 495.
                  
                     24
                            Western Sun, April 7, 1810.
                  
                     25 Vigo Papers, No. 247; Report, No. 216, 30 Cong., 1 Sess.
                  
                     26
                            Report, No. 216, 30 Cong., 1 Sess.
               
                     and Choctaw Indians,27 and, in 1805,
                    Governor William Henry Harrison sent Vigo and John Gibson to hold a conference with the Pottawatomie
                    and Miami tribes.
            Did Vigo have any connection with the British conspiracy of 1788 or later with Aaron Burr and his
                    plans? George Morgan, while giving evidence at the trial of Burr in 1807, stated that he had reason
                    to believe that Vigo was deeply involved in the conspiracy of 1788. At a meeting between Burr and
                    Morgan sometime in 1804, Burr, after looking at a memorandum book, asked Morgan if he knew
                    "a Mr. Vigo, of Fort Vincent, a Spaniard."28 It may be that
                    Burr considered him as a possible accomplice in his designs. He met Vigo in the fall of 1805 at the
                    home of Governor Harrison. Any intention that he may have had of suggesting that Vigo aid him was no
                    doubt dispelled when he saw the character of the man and his devotion to his adopted country. The
                    evidence as presented by Morgan was printed in the 
                        
                            Aurora
                        
                     (
                        Philadelphia
                    ) and came to the attention of Vigo. He wrote an indignant letter disclaiming any
                    connection either with Burr or with the conspiracy of 1788.29
            
            In religious as well as civil and military affairs, Vigo was prominent. The Catholics in 
                        Vincennes
                     were badly neglected by the church in the early days. Father Gibault visited there from
                    time to time, but during the absence of any priest baptisms and marriages were privately preformed
                    by the notary and later revalidated by a priest. In 1792, Reverend Benedict Joseph Flaget, who
                    afterward became Bishop of 
                        Bardstown
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , was sent as the first resident priest to 
                        Vincennes
                    . Vigo was influential in securing his appointment by Bishop John Carroll of 
                        Baltimore
                    . Flaget made his home with Vigo during the four years that he remained in 
                        Vincennes
                    . He often spoke of his debt of gratitude to him and went to see him as late as 1834.30
            
            Vigo's name appears often in the church records as witness to marriages and godfather at
                    baptisms. In 1818, when the Church of St. Francis Xavier was reorganized, he was elected a trustee
                    along with Anthony Blanc, Hyacinth Lasselle, 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid.
                  
                     28 Vigo Papers, No. 247.
                  
                     29
                            Reports of the Trial of Colonel Aaron Burr for Treason and for a
                            Misdemeanor, taken in shorthand by David Robertson (
                                Philadelphia
                             1898), I, 502.
                  
                     30 Rev. H. Alerding, A History of the Catholic Church in
                                the Diocese of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 99-100.
               
                     Peter Brouillet, Peter Andre, Ambrose Mallet, and John Baptiste
                    LaPlante. He was reëlected each year following until December, 1822.
            In the closing days of the eighteenth centry, Vigo built one of the finest homes in 
                        Vincennes
                    . The large parlor had a high ceiling, imported mantle and floors inlaid with diamond
                    shaped pieces of black walnut alternating with white oak. It was finished by the time William Henry
                    Harrison arrived in 1801 to take up his office as Governor of Indiana Territory, and the latter
                    occupied part of the house until his own home could be built.31
            
            In 1802, he and Harrison were chosen as representatives to a convention held that year at 
                        Vincennes
                     to decide upon the extension of slavery into Indiana Territory. Vigo was a pro-slavery
                    man, owning several slaves himself.32
            
            In 1804, he was called upon to preside at a meeting of the inhabitants of 
                        Knox County
                     to consider the propriety of adopting the representative grade of government.33
            
            When 
                        Vincennes
                     University was organized in 1806, he was chosen one of the trustees. Examining the
                    minutes of the various meetings, we find Vigo taking an active part in their deliberations and
                    serving on many committees. His name is signed to the constitution of the circulating library begun
                    in 1806, indicating that he was a shareholder in that enterprise. He gave several books to the
                    library, among them being Volume II of 
                  
                            Washington
                        's Letters and Goldsmith's Animated Nature.
            Other public services rendered include the appraisal of houses in 
                        Vincennes
                     Township,34 serving as commissioner for raising the county tax
                        rate,35 and as a member of a committee to review a road for which there was
                    a petition.36 Many of these activities were carried on while he was seeing his
                    former prosperity disappear. His financial condition was due in part, it seems, to the general
                    decline in the fur trading business, and in part to his inability to keep his own accounts since he
                    could neither read nor write.37 We must add to these 
                  
                     31 Smith, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                
                     , 163.
                  
                     32
                            Early 
                                    Chicago
                                 and 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , edited by Edward G. Mason (
                                Chicago
                            , 1890), 236. (
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Historical Society Collections, IV).
                  
                     33
                            Indiana Gazette, August 28, 1804.
                  
                     34
                            Court of Common Pleas Record, 
                                Vincennes
                            , May Term, 1804.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., February Term, 1796.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., May Term, 1810.
                  
                     37 Vigo to John Askin, June 9, 1804, Vigo Papers, No. 182.
               
                     causes the failure of the Federal Government to repay the money
                    advanced to Clark or to reimburse him for the sums lost through acting as security for the
                    depreciated 
                        Virginia
                     currency.
            In 1804, William McIntosh, lawyer for John Askin, pressed Vigo for the payment of a note given in
                        1801.38 He was unable to pay it and Toussaint Dubois, who had promised to
                    pay it for him, was away from 
                        Vincennes
                     at that time. A writ of arrest was issued against Vigo whereupon he decided to fight
                    the suit and turned over his accounts to John Rice Jones, a prominent lawyer in that part of the
                    country. The latter decided after examining the papers that Askin was indebted to Vigo rather than
                    Vigo to Askin. Being in-formed of this new turn of affairs, Askin replied in a rather indignant
                    manner, reminding Vigo of how lenient he had been in waiting for payments during several years. He
                    also warned him that since the sum due the T. Williams Company had been placed in his hands for
                    collection, it was in his power to force him to pay all of that or give him favorable terms. He
                    advised him to make an honorable offer to that Company and also to settle his debt with the Miami
                    Company as soon as possible.39
            
            Toussaint Dubois, taking charge of affairs, offered thirty tracts of the French Donation lots,
                    amounting to about 12,000 acres, a valuable house and lot (probably the one in which the Governor
                    had been living), two adjoining lots, and about 100 acres of improved land, worth in all about
                    sixteen or seventeen thousand dollars, in consideration of the debt due to the Miami Company.40 Eight tracts of land were offered for the debt due to the Williams
                        Company.41 After some negotiations satisfactory arrangements were made and
                    those parts of his debt settled.42 Vigo still had some other property which
                    could command money in eight or twelve months. Harrison advised him to use that in paying his debt
                    to Askin for he did not believe that any court would set aside Vigo's note because of a
                    mistake in the accounts.43 Dubois and John Rice 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., Nos. 4, 5, 182.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., No. 530.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., Nos. 245, 427.
                  
                     41
                            Manuscripts from the Burton Historical Collection, collected and published
                            by Clarence M. Burton (
                                Detroit
                            , 1918), No. 3, pp. 110-11.
                  
                     42 Vigo Papers, No. 245.
                  
                     43 William H. Harrison to Askin, Manuscripts from the
                                Burton Historical Collections, No. 3, pp. 111-12.
               
                     Jones, however, believed differently. Askin's suit
                    against Vigo was dropped44 in a letter written April 12, 1809. In this, Askin
                    says that he is going to lay before the men who have handled Vigo's furs, all the accounts
                    relative to them. These men were then to send a certificate of what they had seen to 
                        Vincennes
                    . If the certificate furnished a clear proof that Askin's demands were just,
                    the latter believed that Vigo should pay them.45 The final settlement of the
                    matter is not known.
            Vigo moved from town to a farm three miles southeast of 
                        Vincennes
                    . On March 20, 1818, his wife died after a long illness. Contrary to the often repeated
                    statement that she lived but a short time after their marriage, legal records show that they were
                    married for at least twenty-five years. The date of her death is substantiated by the record at the
                    Andrew Gardner funeral home in 
                        Vincennes
                    , and by an inscription done in handwork and now preserved at the Harrison House. It
                    reads as follows: 
                        Sacred to the memory of Mrs. Elizabeth Vigo who departed this life March 20th, 1818, after a
                            long and severe illness which she bore with Christian fortitude. Her virtues of an engaging
                            manner, her strong and cultivated mind, her promptitude of the discharge of her social
                            duties and her faithful friendship has left an indelible impression on the hearts of her
                            numerous friends and fond relatives.46
                  
                    
                
            In 1830, the farm was sold to Vigo's nephew, Archibald McKee, but Vigo continued to make his
                    home there, going to 
                        Vincennes
                     from time to time where he stayed with his friend, John Badollet. His nephews, Joseph
                    and John, and other relatives in 
                        Italy
                     were desirous of joining him in this country. Joseph did come and settle in 
                        New Orleans
                    , where he became fairly prosperous. He wrote as late as 1835 urging the old Colonel to
                    come and make his home with him.47 The latter's age no doubt prevented
                    him from making such a trip.
            In 1830, Vigo was elected an honorary member of the newly formed Indiana Historical Society, and was
                    invited to communicate "any interesting information respecting the early settlement and
                    history of Indiana."48
            
            
               
                  44 Vigo Papers, No. 5.
               
                  45 Manuscripts in Burton Collection, Public Library, 
                            Detroit
                        .
               
                  46 The burial place of Mrs. Vigo has not been found.
               
                  47 Vigo Papers, No. 214.
               
                  48
                        Ibid., No. 223.
            
            
            His interest in religious affairs seemed to lag after he was no longer a trustee of the church. When
                    the Reverend Simon Brute came to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1834, he tried in vain to recall him to his faith. On the back of a letter that he
                    left at Badollet's home to be read to Vigo, he added these words apparently as an
                    afterthought: "I see your name as Godfather at holy baptism almost 50 years ago, on the
                    oldest records. Remember the first of the sacraments of our Lord and the first question.
                    ‘What do you ask for?’ ‘Faith.’
                    ‘Why?’ ‘For eternal life, the true life’."49 These words must have recalled to him his earlier service in the church, but
                    as far as we know they were not heeded.
            In Vigo's will, made in 1834, Albert Badollet, George W. Ewing, and his nephew, Francis Vigo
                    McKee, were named executors. He stipulated that his real and personal estate should go to Francis
                    Vigo McKee, and what personal property should be in his possession at the time of his death should
                    be owned jointly by Archibald and Francis McKee. He further stated that his claim against the State
                    of 
                        Virginia
                     should be prosecuted and in the event of collection, Archibald McKee was to receive
                    $500, and the county of Vigo was to receive $500 to be expended in the
                    purchase of a bell for the court-house. On this was to be inscirbed the words: "Presented
                    by Francis Vigo." An earlier will made in 1824 was much briefer. In this, Robert Buntin,
                    Jr. was named executor and Francis Vigo McKee was to receive all his real and personal estate.
                    Nothing was said of his claims in this will.50
            
            He spent the last few months of his life at the home of Mrs. Betsy LaPlante, whom he had taken into
                    his own home as a little girl and provided for until her marriage. Here he was taken care of until
                    his death, which occurred on May 22, 1836. Refusing to confess and receive the sacrements of the
                    Catholic Church, he was buried in the Protestant cemetery.51
            
            An inventory of his estate after his death revealed that the personal property, consisting mostly of
                    household goods, was valued at $77.62. His "Rights and Credits"
                    consisted of a note of Antoine Reneaud for $30.52 and the claim on 
                        Virginia
                    
                    
                  
                     49
                            Ibid.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., No. 500.
                  
                     51 Alerding, History of the Catholic Church, 99-100.
                            A small tombstone was placed on his grave sometime after his death which gave the date of
                            his death as 1836. This was replaced by a larger marker in 1909 by the Francis Vigo Chapter
                            of the D. A. R.
               
                     for supplies furnished Clark's army. With the interest
                    due, it then amounted to about $32,000.
            After the Revolutionary War, the 
                        United States
                     government agreed to take over "the necessary and reasonable expenses which
                    any state had incurred in the Revolution." All claims against 
                        Virginia
                     were to be presented by May 25, 1788. Vigo either did not realize the importance of
                    this or did not know of it. Three commissioners were appointed to ascertain the amount of these
                    claims. Their report is lost but the sum finally allowed for all 
                        Virginia
                     claims was $500,000. Vigo's claim could not have been included at
                    that time for he still had the draft in his possission in 1798. This authorized settlement relieved
                    the national government of any responsibility in the matter, and 
                        Virginia
                     could do nothing until after a law was passed in 1832 providing for an investigation of
                    Revolutionary claims. A new commission accredited the claim and it was presented to Congress for
                    payment. Seven times the House Committee reported in favor of it, and twice bills for its payment
                    passed the House. In the Senate bills were also reported. The case dragged on until 1872, when an
                    act passed both houses referring it to the Court of Claims. In 1876, a settlement of
                    $49,898.60 was paid to Vigo's heirs.52 Francis Vigo McKee
                    had died, but his direct heirs, and his brother Archibald McKee (who was to have $500 by
                    the will of Colonel Vigo), received the payment.53 Thus, when he could no longer
                    use it, the debt due this revolutionary hero, Colonel Francis Vigo was partially repaid.
            
               
                  52 30 Cong., 1 Sess., House of
                        Representatives, Report No. 216: C. C. Baldwin, "A Centennial Lawsuit," in Western Reserve Historical Society Tracts, I, No. 35.
               
                  53
                        
                            Vigo County
                         received the $500 which was to go to that political unit by the terms of
                        the will.
            
         
         
         
            John Elder: Pioneer Builder1
            
            By KENNETH LOUCKS
            
            Almost everyone is interested in some special thing—has a hobby, the pursuit of which
                    affords unbounded pleasure in its following. I shall tell of my interest in the collecting of old
                    letters, papers, and old documents of every sort. I believe that this will appeal to you and I
                    intend to show that remarkable and valuable historical facts are obtainable through the pursuit of
                    such a hobby.
            For several years I have been acquiring old letters from various places, such as attics, abandoned
                    files and the debris of auction house odds and ends. In this manner much entertaining information
                    has been discovered, not to mention the valuable stamps reclaimed for my ever increasing collection.
            About a year ago, I really struck a bonanza, when I bought an old leather trunk actually filled with
                    letters and papers—a chance purchase, with no prior knowledge as to what the contents
                    would foretell. Then came the denoument. First of all, I started laying out the
                    many packets of letters. They were in little bundles tied with strips of cloth or string, with
                    little slips of paper on the tops of the parcels, which read: "Correspondence of
                    1832"—"Correspondence of
                    1837"—"Correspondence of 1846"—and so on, covering
                    most of the years between 1830 and 1860. Quite a few had stamps on them, but the majority, being
                    written earlier, had only a pen-written number indicating the amount of postage in the upper right
                    hand corner. The greater part were not in envelopes, but were just sheets of paper, folded somewhat
                    in the form of envelopes with the writing on the inside, and the address on the outside.
            Going deeper and deeper into my "gold mine," I extracted next old newspapers of the
                    1840 vintage, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and from 
                        Baltimore
                    ; then came several books full of architectural designs dated 1846 and 1847; then rolls
                    of plans; then two metal containers, common to architects of the past. Opening one of the latter, I
                    pulled out a yellow parchment, 
                  
                     1 This paper was read at the Annual Indiana History Conference at 
                                Indianapolis
                             on December 13, 1929.
               
                     a land grant, dated April, 1750, lettered in beautiful English
                    script. It was a deed to 200 acres of land in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , from the owners, Thomas, Richard and John Penn, proprietors of the province of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . It was signed by John Penn. History tells us that William Penn willed 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to his three sons, Thomas, Richard and John. Going into the other container, I found
                    another land grant, or patent, dated 1812, also descriptive of land in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . At the bottom of this capacious chest, I found many different sized account books,
                    some leather bound, others cardboard and paper, and all filled with writing and figures. One paper
                    covered book was filled with names, and proved to be the register of a tavern, of which I shall tell
                    later.
            Getting back to earth, or to speak more properly, after the first big thrill of exploration, I
                    started systematically to peruse more closely each article. This took some time, but from the first
                    I noticed that most of the letters were ad-dressed to a John Elder, and others to a John R. Elder. I
                    soon found out that John R. was the son of John. The better part of the John Elder letters and note
                    books pertained to architectural and construction matters, and naturally I was duly interested.
            After a thorough examination of all materials pertaining to John Elder, I decided, that he had been a
                    man of unusual ability in the construction of buildings. Indeed he designed and built many
                    structures during the early days of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Indiana. He was a man of diversified accomplishment, abundant energy, substantial
                    ability, adventurous nature, and best of all, a kindly parent. He was born in 
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               , in the late part of the eighteenth century, no statement in any
                    writing telling exactly when. Judging from the information at hand, I would say that he was born
                    between the years 1785 and 1800.
            Letters and papers dated 1828 are the earliest news, and tell of his activities while working on the
                    Juanita division of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Canal, near Huntingdon, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The following letter from a man who knew his ability tells well and briefly of his
                    competence in this type of work: 
                        On the score of acquaintance I take the liberty of sending John Elder to you for work. He has
                            done work to a large amount on this line, part of which was very important. His jobs have
                            been executed in a substantial manner and finished in a superior style. He is an  honest, industrious, persevering and intelligent man, whose
                            moral character is without reproach. I can cheerfully recommend Mr. Elder to you, as an
                            experienced good contractor.2
                  
                    
                
            During the year 1831, Mr. Elder worked on a contract to improve the navigation of the
                        Tennessee River at the Muscle Shoals, Florence, 
                        Alabama
                    . An interesting account of his various operations and disbursements were kept in a
                    small note book. The chief pleasure I received from looking through these records was derived from
                    studying his itinery from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to northwestern 
                        Alabama
                    . He journeyed by stage to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , by stage to 
                        Wheeling
                    , by stage to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , by boat to 
                        Louisville
                    , by stage to 
                        Nashville
                    , by stage to Huntsville, 
                        Alabama
                    , and finally by stage to Florence, 
                        Alabama
                    .
            In the Fall of 1831, Mr. Elder was back in 
                        Harrisburg
                     where he observed in an eastern newspaper a legal notice, issued by the State of
                    Indiana, asking for architects to submit plans for a State Capitol building at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The advertisement designated that any architect interested, should get in touch wth
                    the State Commissioners at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and was signed by James Blake. Enclosed in a letter from James Blake, in answer to one
                    sent him by Mr. Elder, was the legal notice that Mr. Elder had first read. Mr. Blake's
                    letter follows: 
                        Your favor of the 23rd of August was received this morning but not in time to send an answer
                            by return mail. To some of your inquiries I cannot give definite answers, not having such
                            information as is necessary. How soon after the Legislature has convened it will consider
                            the plans that may be submitted for approval, I cannot say. Probably during the second or
                            third week of the session, its decision will be known which will be the middle or latter
                            part of next December. I do not think the originator of the plan adopted will be entitled in
                            virtue of that circumstance to the contract for raising the edifice; at all events that will
                            depend entirely on the will of the Legislature. A law must be passed before the building is
                            commenced, which may afford any disposed to undertake the work an opportunity of offering.
                        Timber of the dimensions stated in your letter can be obtained—oak, ash, poplar
                            and walnut, can be procured within four to five miles 
                        
                           2 Fred H. Petrie, Acting Engineer, to Benjamin Wright,
                                    Engineer in Chief of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, Huntingdon, Pa., Juniata
                                    Division of the 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Canal, June 30, 1830.
                     
                             from town. The ground on which the building will be
                            erected is level and the nearest point on the Ohio River is eighty-five
                            miles.
                        In reply to your last inquiry, I have hereby to state that the section of the country in
                            which those reside, who compete for the work will not throw any difficulty in their way.3
                  
                    
                
            Mr. Elder did not receive the contract to build the Capitol as Mr. Ithiel Town's design was
                    selected, and he built a structure that served the state for forty years. Mr. Elder presented for
                    consideration, three drawings of the exact dimensions of the successful plans. The designs were of
                    the Grecian style of architecture.4
            
            Mr. Elder's interest in Indiana culminated in his coming to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to live in the latter part of 1833. He was accompanied by his family and a Joseph
                    Mathers, also of 
                        Harrisburg
                    . They took over the management of a tavern owned by Governor James Brown Ray. While
                    Elder and Mathews operated it, it was called the Union Inn. Histories of 
                        Indianapolis
                     do not mention any tavern called the Union Inn, but they do state facts, which combined
                    with information that I have, signify that the building was located on the south side of 
                        Washington
                     street, opposite the court house.
            I arrived at this conclusion by a notation, written on the back page of a register of guests that was
                    kept at the Union Inn. It reads: "Received Dec. 14, 1833, from Elder and Mathers,
                    $31.10, in full for plastering three rooms and patching others, in the house they now
                    occupy, the property of Gov. Ray" This receipt was signed by William Lingenfelter. An early
                    history of the City tells us that Gov. Ray purchased his tavern building from Major Thomas Carter.
                    Major Carter was among the first to start a tavern in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He built a double log cabin in Berry's Trace, early in 1821, and called it a
                    tavern. This cabin stood between 
                        Washington
                     and Market streets just east of 
                        Illinois
                    . A short time later he built a one and one-half story frame building in front of this
                    double cabin on 
                        Washington
                     street. He did not keep this tavern very long, but soon built another on 
                        Washington
                     street, opposite the court house. Here he met 
                  
                     3 James Blake, Commissioner, to John Elder, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, September 3, 1831.
                  
                     4 The Capitol designed and constructed by Mr. Town was nearly finished
                            by December, 1835, and it stood until 1878 when it was torn down. The writer appreciates
                            having in possession the plans submitted by Mr. Elder. Several present day architects have
                            admired these plans.
               
                     with a great misfortune. About two weeks after the Legislature
                    convened, in January 1825, this house burned entirely to the ground. It took fire from a keg of
                    ashes. In the spring of 1826, Major Carter purchased a two story frame house of Jacob Crumbaugh,
                    that stood on 
                        Washington
                     street, just west of the canal. This house he moved along 
                        Washington
                     street to the site of the burned building. The removal of this building occupied
                    several weeks, causing more stumps and logs to be burned and removed from the street, than anything
                    that had yet happened. Later he sold the property to Governor Ray who had a sign painted over it,
                    one side reading; "Travelers' Ray House, Cheap;" and the other side,
                    "Travelers' Ray House, Cash."
            Mr. Elder operated this Inn from December, 1833, to April, 1836, and registered 4,663 guests in all
                    during that period. These names occupy two registers and the design of these books is worth telling
                    about. There were nine columns across the page for each entry. First came the date; then the
                    signature of the guest; then a B, D or S, meaning starting at breakfast, dinner or supper; then the
                    room number (ten rooms in all were used for guests); then the place of residence; then the
                    destination; then the date of departure; then the registration number. Last and most interesting of
                    all was a column for remarks—and what a variety of remarks! An entire book could be
                    written about them alone. Some voiced their presidential preference—Andrew Jackson, Henry
                    Clay, William Henry Harrison, Van Buren, Dick Johnson, Davy Crockett, John Quincy Adams, and many
                    others. Some stated that they were entering land; some en route to the Far West;
                    and there were countless other remarks. One pathetic entry clings to my memory from its first
                    reading: "While crossing White river this morning, I lost two horses
                    by drowning."
            John Elder started his building career in Indiana in 1836, first of all, building the 
                        Clinton County
                     courthouse at Frank-fort. All the letters, material bills and account books pertaining
                    to this work are preserved. He was town assessor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , from 1836 to 1837, and served on the Town Common Council from 1838 to 1839, proving
                    how quickly he had adapted himself to his new surroundings. In 1834, the Legislature chartered the
                    State Bank of Indiana, with a capital of $1,600,000. Up to that time 
                        Indianapolis
                     had contained  nothing but a small private bank. In
                    1840, the Bank removed to its new building at the corner of 
                        Kentucky
                     Avenue and 
                        Illinois
                     Street. Mr. Elder drafted the plans and erected this building. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch was organized by the appointment of Hervey Bates, president and B. F. Norris,
                    cashier. Mr. Elder also erected the building for the branch. Interesting pictures of these two bank
                    buildings can be found in the Centennial History and Handbook of Indiana. In 1837,
                    John Elder erected 
                        Washington
                     Hall, the best hotel building in the town, until, a few years later, he put up the
                    Palmer House for Nathan B. Palmer, at the southeast corner of 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     streets.
            Letters of recommendation of John Elder, by prominent citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     give an idea of his standing:
            [By WILLIAM ELLIOTT]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Permit me to introduce to your acquaintance Mr. John Elder of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     who is on a visit to your City, for the purpose of undertaking the
                                    building that is to be let in Fifth street. Mr. Elder has been the builder of both
                                    bank houses in this place, also both the large hotels. He is looked upon as one of
                                    the best draftsmen in the west. He is an active, energetic man, of good character.
                                    Any assistance you may be able to render Mr. Elder will be reciprocated by many of
                                    your friends.5
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            [By GOVERNOR NOAH NOBLE]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I beg the favor of introducing to you, the bearer, John Elder, Esq., my friend and
                                    neighbor. He visits your City to offer the plans of a public building, of which you
                                    no doubt have some knowledge, but he has the benefit of few acquaintances, and
                                    therefore needs the advice and acquaintance of some one, to introduce him to the
                                    officers or committee to whom his drawing is to be exhibited. Mr. Elder most justly
                                    stands at the head of the list of builders and artists in the State, is one of our
                                    best citizens, is generally beloved and is highly deserving the confidence and
                                    respect of this committee.6
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            [By SAMUEL MERRILL, President of the State Bank]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Sir:—Mr. Elder, a citizen of this place, who has been employed as an
                                    architect for some years, visits 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     to obtain employment. Mr. Elder had the superintendence of the building
                                    of a very fine church in this place and also the State Bank, which is a good house,
                                    and he also had the oversight of the erection of several good 
                              
                                 5 William Elliott to William E. Marsh (Galt House, 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            ), 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, December 9, 1843.
                              
                                 6 Noah Noble to Mr. T. Williams (Cinn., O.), 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , December 8, 1848.
                           
                                     court houses in this part of the state. If it
                                    conies in your way to advance his interest and extend his acquaintance, I shall be
                                        grateful.7
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Dr. John Evans of 
                        Chicago
                    , who had made a study of mental diseases, delivered a lecture before members of the
                    Indiana Legislature in 1843, and Gov. Samuel Bigger was directed to obtain plans for the erection of
                    a suitable building for an insane asylum. John Elder was selected as the architect to draft these
                    plans. At the next session of the Legislature, in 1845, plans were approved, and a tax of one cent
                    on each hundred dollars worth of property was levied to provide means for erecting the buildings.
            Dr. Evans, Dr. L. Dunlap and James Blake were appointed a Commission to obtain a site for the
                    proposed buildings. They selected Mount Jackson west of the City, where the hospital now stands. The
                    work of construction was begun at once and the main building was completed the next year at a cost
                    of $75,000. Every convenience and comfort for this class of unfortunates was provided.
                    Mr. Elder kept his accounts of fees and superintending charges with such exacting detail that they
                    afford very interesting reading.
            In 1846, Mr. Elder prepared plans and specifications for the first store building erected by Charles
                    Mayer. It is said that Mr. Mayer started business with a dozen ginger cakes, a jar or two of candy,
                    and a keg of beer. He added a few toys and continued to expand until today the store of Charles
                    Mayer & Company is the largest of its kind, at least, in the Middle West. Mr. Elder made
                    plans for Hervey Bates who put up store buildings along 
                        Washington
                     street. A young minister of the gospel, Henry Ward Beecher, afterwards to become famous
                    as a lecturer and preacher, chose Mr. Elder to prepare plans for his dwelling house in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1846.
            The Methodist church in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was then divided into the Eastern Charge Methodist Church and the Central Charge
                    Methodist Church and their new buildings were designed by Mr. Elder. Many residences constructed
                    about this time were of his planning. Between 1846 and 1848, he designed and constructed the
                    courthouse at 
                        Rushville
                    , and a Methodist Church there. He built the courthouse at 
                        Connersville
                    , and a Presbyterian Church there. He submitted 
                  
                     7 Samuel Merrill to E. Poor (Cinn., O.), 
                                Indianapolis
                            , December 9, 1843.
               
                     plans for a courthouse at 
                  Helena, Arkansas
               ; a church
                    building at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana (said to be still intact); a seminary building at 
                        Noblesville
                    ; the 
                        Marion County
                     poorhouse; a tavern house for Mathew Little; and a tavern house, ware-house and
                    pork-house for B. T. Blythe. All these are mentioned in one little book, and his fee for plans is
                    not over $15 for any one commission.
            John Elder may have had a part in the planning and construction of the Blind Institute buildings that
                    are still used but which are soon to make way for the War Memorial Plaza. Just how much he had to do
                    with this project is not definitely determined, but I shall present the information at hand. In the
                    winter of 1844-45, through the efforts of James Martin Ray, William H. Churchman of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Blind Asylum was brought here with some of his pupils to give an exhibition or two in
                    Mr. Beecher's church. This had a decidedly good effect on the Legislature, which was then
                    in session. James M. Ray, George W. Mears and the Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of the State were
                    appointed a commission to carry out the work, either by the establishment of an asylum, or by
                    providing for the care and education of the blind, at the institution in 
                        Ohio
                     or that in 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1847, James Martin Ray, George W. Mears and Seaton W. Norris were appointed to
                    erect a suitable building for the purpose and $5,000 was appropriated for a site. Mr.
                    Elder has the following information jotted down in his fee book:
            
               Trustees for Blind Institute
               
                  To draftings for Main Building
                  $50.00
               
               
                  To draftings & Specifications and sectional drawings for work shop
                  40.00
               
               
                   
                  90.00
               
               
                        Received in cash
                  40.00
               
               
                        Balance due
                  50.00
               
            
            Local histories give Francis Costigan credit for designing the present buildings at the Blind School,
                    and I cannot say that he did not furnish the plans, but I believe I have one point, Mr.
                    Elder's notations, from which to argue that the work was done by the latter.
            Mr. Elder was connected with many other important  things of that
                    day but limited time forbids the giving of more details. Briefly, I will say that he drafted plans,
                    and supervised the construction of prison buildings at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , hís instructions being personally given to him by Governor James Whitcomb.
                    He was a contractor on a part of the Indiana Central Canal, also on a part of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Madison
                     railroad. He worked with the Indiana Fund Commission, and in this work was acquainted
                    with Mr. Lanier of 
                        Madison
                    .
            Now comes the adventure part of Mr. Elder's story and, if I did not have the concrete facts,
                    I myself would believe that I was reading fiction. His wife died, his children grew up, the time
                    came when the newspapers were full of the discovery of gold in 
                        California
                    , and John Elder, with his work all cleaned up, could not resist the urge to go to this
                    land of promise, and, like many others away he started. His description of his journey by boat to 
                        Panama
                    , the trek across the isthmus, the voyage up the west coast, the journey into the
                    "diggings," his hardships, experiences and thoughts, are all expressed in letters
                    which he wrote back home to his family. But even in this land of gold, two other things were
                    uppermost in his mind. First, of all his children, and second, his knowledge of architecture and
                    construction work. While in 
                        California
                     he submitted a design for the first Capitol for that state. He helped construct a dam
                    whereby gold might more easily be gotten from the river. Unfortunately, his last piece of
                    construction helped to cause his death. Being thwarted by the elusive gold, he conceived the
                    practical idea of building a ferry boat for crossing a turbulent stream and successfully operated
                    it. While doing this he contracted a cold from exposure and shortly passed away. Truly, John Elder
                    was a pioneer to whom Hoosierdom owes a sincere appreciation.8
            
            
               
                  8 Following the reading of this paper. Mr. George S. Cottman stated that
                        he considers John Elder, Francis Costigan, and William Tinsley (the architect of Christ Church, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ) the three best and most conspicuous builders and architects of Indiana before the
                        Civil War. He also called attention to the fact that a grandson of John Elder is still a
                        well-known citizen of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . A gentleman in the audience then arose and said that he was William L. Elder, the
                        person just mentioned. He explained that a little more than a year earlier he and his family had
                        moved from their old residence to another. In the process of vacating the old home he became
                        worn out. At last, however, he reached the dusty attic. Looking over the odds and ends there
                        ac-cumulated, including an old trunk, he observed nothing which seemed to deserve longer
                        keeping. Calling in a buyer of second-hand household goods, he sold to him the contents of the
                        attic en masse. It was from this dealer that the writer bought the old trunk,
                        a little later. At the close of his remarks the grandson of John Elder asserted that he was glad
                        that the letters and other documents had fallen into the hands of one who had made such use of
                        them.
            
         
         
         
            A 
                        Quaker
                     Pioneer in Indiana: James Milton Finley
            BY GEORGE W. FINLEY, M.D.
            When Indiana was young there came into her unbroken wilderness large numbers of hardy homeseekers
                    from eastern and southern States. Among these immigrants were numerous families of well-to-do
                    Quakers, or Friends as they preferred to be called. They were indeed a peace-loving and industrious
                    class of people. One large Quaker family was that of George Finley,1 a soldier
                    of the Revolutionary War. He died in 1833, and his widow came with her ten sons and daughters over
                    the mountains from Guilford Court House, 
                        North Carolina
                    , to the free country north of the Ohio River.
            It was while I was experiencing a four-months illness in the hospital, the first in seventy-four
                    years, that my mind ran back over the three score and ten years to the days of my early childhood. I
                    could hear again the very pleasant greetings of Grandmother Finley, and enjoy once more in
                    retrospect her quaint but fine expressions—"thee",
                    "thou" and "thine".
            The Finley family lived for a few years near the eastern line of Indiana. Several of the children
                    were married there, and settled with their families near 
                        Richmond
                    , Liberty, and 
                        Muncie
                    . The mother and two sons decided to move again and take up public lands in the heavily
                    timbered country of western Indiana. Their choice fell on what is now the western border of 
                        Putnam County
                    , with Walnut Creek to the east of their location. The older of these two sons soon went
                    on to that part of 
                        Illinois
                     lying just south of East 
                        St. Louis
                    , leaving my father, James Milton Finley, the youngest of the family, to care for the
                    aging mother, and at the same time to make a home in the wilderness. He cleared small hillside
                    fields for cultivation, cutting and burning giant oak, walnut and yellow poplar trees, the level
                    land, which could not then be drained, being too swampy.
            In 1846, my father married a particularly fine type of 
                  
                     1 James Milton Finley, my father, was the son of George Finley. The
                            latter was born in 1757 in Queen Anne County, 
                                Maryland
                            , and died at Guilford Court House, 
                                North Carolina
                            , in 1833. At the age of nineteen, he became a soldier in the War of
                            Independence, serving as a private, a sergeant and a captain.
               
                     pioneer girl, who had come on horseback from 
                        Kentucky
                     with her people. My mother's maiden name was Sarah Ann Belk, and she was born
                    in 
                        Russell County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1824. At the time of his marriage, my father was twenty-six years of age, having
                    been born at Guilford Court House, 
                        North Carolina
                    , on August 29, 1820. The home to which this pioneer Friend brought his bride was built
                    of great logs, plastered with clay. It had a great, wide-open fireplace for winter comfort and
                    cooking. This home was visited by all the pioneer families who lived for miles around in that wooded
                    country.
            The sturdy young 
                        Quaker
                     proved himself a most valuable help to his neighbors, not only at their log-rollings
                    and house-raisings, but as a leader in improved farming as well. He taught them by example to save
                    much of the fine growing timber on their land, and to coöperate in the draining of swampy
                    lands for grain fields and meadows. He led in the matter of introducing and caring for the best
                    stock—cattle, sheep and horses. At the age of fourteen he had served as an apprentice to
                    a pork packer, and he knew how to cure and preserve the year's supply of meat from the late
                    fall or early winter butchering. His neighbors profited by this knowledge.
            Wild game was abundant, and since he and his neighbors were skilled riflemen, they could have
                    venison, wild turkey, and smaller game in season. The Quaker woodsman was a friend to all animal
                    life as well as to humanity, and he practiced and taught the killing of only such animals as were
                    needed for food or pelts, or such as were dangerous to the settlers or their stock. The pelts were
                    tanned and made into shoes, boots and harness. The furs were used for various articles of winter
                    clothing.
            Oxen were the chief beasts of burden and were used for plowing, and for hauling great logs and heavy
                    loads of lumber through the thick woods and over the uneven trails. It was a number of years before
                    roads were opened making it possible to use teams of horses to advantage. The oxen were driven in
                    one or two-yoke teams, plows or sleds being attached by heavy log-chains to the yokes.
            It was in 1843, that my father, then twenty-three, rode one-hundred miles to 
                        Vincennes
                     to the 
                        United States
                     Land Office, and made entry, for himself, to a quarter section of virgin timber land
                    near the eastern edge of what is now 
                        Clay County
                    .  This was just about a mile from his
                    mother's farm. Erecting a good hewn-log house and a barn on his own land, he was still
                    close enough to his mother's home to look carefully after her until her death in 1865, at
                    the age of eighty-five.2
            
            The heavy timber on the new land was chiefly oak, walnut, yellow poplar and sugar-maple. From the
                    trees of the last named variety in the late winter and early spring, my father made all the maple
                    syrup and brown sugar that his and the neighboring families could use.3 The
                    white oak was fine and abundant. What had to be cut for the clearing of fields was made into staves
                    for cooperage. Many hundreds of pork and flour barrells were made from these and hauled by ox-teams
                    to 
                        Terre Haute
                     over the National Road as soon as that highway was partially opened.
            My father's first crop of wheat from the new-ground fields was cut with reap-hooks and
                    threshed by flail and by oxen driven round and round over the straw which was spread on the barn
                    floor. This virgin crop yielded 100 bushels of winnowed grain which was hauled seventy-five miles to 
                        Lafayette
                    , then the best market since the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal had just been opened that far. The wheat sold for fifty cents per bushel, which
                    was thought to be an extra good price. Its value was exchanged for salt at $3 per barrel
                    and for other necessary household supplies at many times their present cost. By 1851, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     Railroad was completed across Indiana, after which markets were near at hand. Yet as
                    eggs sold at five cents a dozen and butter at twelve and one-half cents a pound, while coffee was
                    about seventy-five cents a pound with sugar in proportion, it was well that pioneer families were
                    able to live largely on the products of their own farms.
            Hogs sold at $1.50 per hundred-weight, and many large droves were taken to 
                        Terre Haute
                     packers from 
                        Clay County
                    . They were slowly driven to market by farmers and their sons, a great contrast to
                    transportation by trucks as we have it today. It is true that the fattening of stock was not so
                    costly then, since wild mast (acorns, beechnuts and hickorynuts) furnished all the food needed
                    except a little corn for finishing the process. Corn grew very rank in the new-ground fields and
                        
                  
                     2 My grandmother was born at Guilford C. H., 
                                North Carolina
                            , in 1780. Her maiden name was Mary Bishop. She died in 
                                Putnam County
                            , Indiana in 1865.
                  
                     3 He was also successful in bee culture and produced much
                        honey.
               
                     their was an abundance for the winter feeding of all stock. My
                    Quaker father not only introduced the first improved stock of hogs, cattle and sheep into the
                    community, but he was the first to grow clover for their sustenance.
            Clothing for all the family was chiefly homespun, made from wool or flax (or a mixture) and the cloth
                    was very durable for service. Its coloring was derived from the inner bark of native trees and from
                    the hulls of black walnuts.
            When conducting the necessary work of forest and field, this pioneer Friend furnished employment for
                    a large number of men. So popular and successful was he as an employer that the men seemed to prefer
                    to work for him rather than on their own initiative. During twenty-five years he and his good
                    helpmeet gave home and schooling to more than twenty orphaned boys and girls in addition to caring
                    for their own children. These orphaned children habitually called their benefactors "Uncle
                    Jim" and "Aunt Sarah." A majority of them remained in the home until
                    grown up, or until they married and established homes of their own. Hospitality was always extended
                    to travelers, and especially to ministers of that early period who served the various country
                    churches. This home often entertained many of the most noted of the pioneer preachers.
            In 1856, my father decided to visit his brother who had settled in 
                        Illinois
                    . As soon as harvest was over, he started with his family in the covered wagon for a two
                    weeks' trip overland on the National Road. Ten days spent going and returning left only
                    four days for the real visit. On the day following the departure, a fierce fire broke out in the
                    woods, spread across the clearing, and quickly destroyed all the farm buildings. A young nephew left
                    in charge was able to rescue only a few household articles. There was no ready or rapid means of
                    sending any news of their great loss to the family. On the return journey, when they were within
                    three miles of home, they learned that their buildings had all burned to the ground. Neighbor
                    McKinley insisted that they stay at his home over-night, and that the mother and children be left to
                    stay longer. Hastening to the site of his home on the next morning, my father found that his good
                    neighbors had already cut and hewn timbers and erected a new house, much like the old one, and were
                    then putting on a good clap-board roof. In  another week the new
                    home was finished and the family was again happily installed therein.
            At about this time the nearby railroad was using great quantities of four-foot wood, known as
                    cord-wood, as fuel under the boilers of the locomotives. Indiana coal had not yet come into use. My
                    father was given a contract to furnish three thousand cords of such wood which was to be delivered
                    at Eaglesfield Station a mile and a half from his farm. This required all the hardwood trees from an
                    unbroken tract of eighty acres, except the oaks which were made into railroad ties, and the yellow
                    poplars which were used for shingles and fine lumber. With the aid of several neighbors with their
                    teams (about twelve teams in all), he delivered the three thousand cords of wood on the ralroad
                    sidings in the course of one fall and winter. Wagons and bob-sleds were used. After delivery, the
                    wood was cut into shorter lengths by portable sawmills for use in the locomotive fire boxes.
            A rather remarkable trait of this 
                        Quaker
                     farmer was his good influence in his daily association with them over the conduct of
                    men and boys whom he employed. He seems to have had no strict, established rules of conduct, nor
                    severe penalties. He only appealed to those who worked for him through manly and good natured
                    precept and example. If rude profanity was begun, he quietly shamed the offender out of countenance
                    by appealing to a sense of self-respect and true manhood, thus showing the folly of using the name
                    of the Deity in vain. If any were inclined to bring in obscene stories, he would subdue that evil by
                    showing it to be disrespectful to one's own mother and contrary to all healthy thought of
                    true manhood.
            During the exciting times preceding and during the Civil War, although known as a firm supporter of
                    the 
                        Lincoln
                     policies, my 
                        Quaker
                     father was held in highest regard by friends and foes of the national Administration.
                    While he would never permit himself to be made a candidate for political office, he was always
                    chosen as arbitrator in all questions at issue among neighbors far and near. When the War was
                    precipitated by the attack on Ft. Sumpter, this Friend, although strictly a man of peace, promptly
                    offered to enlist in defense of the Union. Being past the age for active military service, he could
                    not be accepted, but was advised to serve in  the home guard.
                    Thus he helped organize the first effective company for home defense in western Indiana. Heavy
                    duties fell on him and his family in protecting and caring for soldiers' widows and
                    children, many of whom were quite destitute.
            Quakers were well known to be opposed to the use of intoxicating liquor, and my father was no
                    exception to this rule of conscience. At log-rollings and in harvest work, whiskey was usually
                    provided for the men. He joined heartily as a leading helper in all these coöperative
                    gatherings, but he would not join in the drinking. This would have made him unpopular had it not
                    been for the fact that he proved himself to excell all the drinkers at whatever heavy work was to be
                    done. He could outlift, outrun, and outdo any of them at every kind of sport or hard work. At his
                    own log-rollings and barn-raisings, he refused to furnish any liquor, but served an abundance of
                    good food for refreshment, and the best workers soon approved the plan, because they saw they could
                    do more and better work and all dangerous accidents were avoided.
            In the summer of 1863, there occured an incident showing the terrible community damage from
                    intemperance and disloyalty. Along Eel River and extending up Walnut Creek in 
                        Putnam County
                    , there was a settlement of low, lazy, rough people who were opposed to law and order. A
                    saloon at a bridge site called "Plug City" was the headquarters of the rowdies for
                    loafing and carousing. A sick soldier, being sent home on a furlough, had to cross this bridge to
                    reach his home. Saloonkeeper Mills had boasted that no "dog" in a blue uniform
                    could cross there, so when this sick man in a blue coat came limping along the road, Mills ran out
                    and shot him. The soldier died in the road. The County sheriff would not even arrest the murderer
                    declaring that there was no good witness, and that public sentiment in that lawless community would
                    not support him.
            Soon after this, another wounded soldier came home to visit his sick family, and on the night of his
                    arrival was seized by ruffians and taken to this saloon, where his captors boasted that, after a day
                    of punishment, they would have a hanging party at night. The helpless wife and children could do
                    nothing to save him. Word was sent across the county line asking 
                    assistance from the Home Guards, and from all loyal people who were not too much afraid to help. The
                    call reached the 
                        Quaker
                     patriot very late in the evening as he was returning from a heavy day's work.
                    He decided at once to go to the rescue without waiting for his comrades of the Home Guards. Taking a
                    loaded musket with bayonet fixed, he saddled two good horses and rode six miles to "Plug
                    City". Hiding the horses near by, he marched into the crowded groggery, and demanded that
                    the rowdies surrender their prisoner to him. He forced them to unchain the soldier, and place him on
                    one of the horses. Taken to safety, the soldier and his frightened family were provided for. As soon
                    as he recovered from his wounds, the young soldier returned to his regiment where he served until
                    the close of the war.
            Many other instances of patriotic home services are fondly remembered by elderly people of 
                        Clay County
                    , but among the most notable was what was called the bloodless battle of 
                        Brazil
                    . At the time of Morgan's raid into southern Indiana, it was planned by the
                    bolder element of the Knights of the Golden Circle to coöperate with him. Members of
                    three companies of disloyal Knights assembled during the night in a grove adjoining 
                        Brazil
                     with the purpose of taking and holding the town pending Morgan's arrival. Word
                    was telegraphed to Governor Morton, and Colonel Streight was sent down from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Croy's Creek Home Guards were called out at midnight, my father among them,
                    and were marched to the field of expected conflict. At dawn, while the Knights were taking their
                    hasty breakfast, Col. Streight rode out to their camp to parley with them. He told them that as he
                    was unarmed they could shoot him off his horse, as they had threatened to do, and take the town and
                    have their way for a few hours, but warned them that a brave company of Home Guards would arrive for
                    defense in half an hour, and that regular troops would be wired for as soon as any Knight should
                    fire the first gun. The Home Guard in full force arrived just then, and the Knights forthwith
                    stepped out of ranks and scattered rapidly to distant homes without a shot.
            The father of James Milton Finley having been a soldier in the American Revolution for eight years,
                    taking an active part under Generals Green and 
                        Washington
                     in the fighting at Guilford Court House and Yorktown, it might follow that the son had
                    inherited some fighting quality. But he was distinctly  a man of
                    peace, never seeking a quarrel and always granting charity to the opinions of others. Yet when a
                    question of defending the honor of humanity or of the nation came up, he was ready to fight with all
                    fortitude. Being a devoted admirer of President Lincoln, he was as deeply affected by his
                    assassination, as he would have been by the tragic death of a near relative. He said sorrowfully:
                    "The North has lost its savior, the South its best friend, and the whole country its
                    greatest servant." He journeyed with his family to the nearest railway sation, where we
                    stood with bowed heads as the funeral train passed on its way to 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . I
                    was then a lad of twelve years.
            After many years of patient and continuous work, as age was coming upon them, my father and mother
                    were preparing to retire from active labor to enjoy in later life a little more leisure. They had
                    not accumulated wealth, but they possessed a well improved farm, with good live stock, and a reserve
                    of fine growing timber in which they took a just pride. About this time the good nature of my 
                        Quaker
                     father was imposed upon by persons who were working what would now be called a
                    confidence game. He was persuaded by a business friend to sign his name as an accomodation to paper
                    for a bank loan. After a time it was found that the principal had been defaulted. All of the other
                    sureties had taken the benefit of the bankruptcy law for exemption. The Quaker farmer scorned to
                    take advantage of the technicalities of the law, saying that any pledge of his must be fulfilled at
                    any sacrifice. Thus were all the frugal savings of a busy lifetime swept away to pay an-other
                    man's debts.
            "Uncle Jim" and "Aunt Sarah" Finley, as they were popularly
                    known, were at once provided with home comforts for their declining years by their sons and
                    daughter, who were married and had established homes of their own. In peace and with clear
                    conscience did they spend their last days.4 Before they were promoted to a
                    higher life, a part of the old homestead was redeemed at a great sacrifice on the part of 
                  
                     4 James Milton Finley was born at Guilford C. H., 
                                North Carolina
                            , August 29, 1820. He died at Harmony, Indiana, December 29, 1907. Sarah Ann
                            Belk Finley was born in 
                                Russell County
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , in 1824. She died at 
                                Brazil
                            , Indiana, in 1910.
               
                     their sons. This project could not be carried through until
                    several years after the loss of the farm, but it brought great satisfaction to the aged parents.5
            
            
               
                  5 My father was a conservationist, and his greatest grief over his
                        enforced bankruptcy was that the fine timber which he had reserved was ruthlessly sacrificed.
                        After fifty years, I have set aside a corner of the high, once wooded reserve, the redemption of
                        which is mentioned above, and I am trying to reforest it in memory of my father. During the last
                        five years, I have planted some twenty thousand hardwood and pine seedlings on the overgrazed
                        and eroded ridges and hillsides under the supervision of the State Forestry and Conservation
                        Department.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            A LETTER OF DR. GAMALIEL BAILEY TO JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS
            By GRACE JULIAN CLARKE
            
            
                    Foreword
                
            In looking over some old letter-files recently I came upon a communication from Dr. Gamaliel Bailey
                    addressed to Joshua R. Giddings, in 1839, that seems to me of extraordinary interest. Dr. Bailey was
                    then living in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and editing The Philanthropist, an antislavery paper which was
                    started by James G. Birney in 1834. Birney was a native of 
                        New Jersey
                    . After being admitted to the bar, he settled in 
                        Alabama
                     and rose to be a district attorney there. Because of growing opposition to slavery, he
                    emancipated his chattels and established himself in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The proslavery feeling was so strong in that 
                        Ohio
                     city that his newspaper venture met with scant support and his press was presently
                    thrown into the River. With the zeal of a true reformer he again launched his newspaper, however,
                    this time in partnership with Dr. Gamaliel Bailey, another native of 
                        New Jersey
                    , who, after receiving his medical degree in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1828, had gone to 
                        China
                     as ship's physician. Not entirely pleased with his profession, he decided that
                    newspaper work was more to his liking, and, on his return to America, became editor of The Methodist Protestant in 
                        Baltimore
                    . This position he soon resigned to go to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he was appointed physician for the cholera hospital during the prevalence of that
                    epidemic in this part of the country. It is said that the expulsion of some students from Lane
                    Seminary first called his attention seriously to the slavery question and led to his joining Mr.
                    Birney in the effort to arouse public opinion against the evil. Twice their printing office was,
                    attacked by mobs, their papers burned and presses thrown into the 
                        Ohio
                    . On Birney's removal to 
                        New York
                     in 1837, Dr. Bailey became sole editor of the re-established Philanthropist which, of course valiantly supported Birney as the Liberty Party candidate
                    for the Presidency in 1840 against Harrison and Van Buren, the candidates of the Whig and Democratic
                    parties. The following  year, The
                    Philanthropist press was once more destroyed by a mob that was only dispersed at the point of
                    the bayonet. It seems wonderful that the young abolitionist had the courage to go on, but he
                    persisted, supporting Birney again in 1844, when the Liberty Party men were accused of electing Polk
                    by refusing to stand by Henry Clay in his last desperate effort to attain the goal of the
                    Presidency. Dr. Bailey was soon afterwards called to 
                        Washington
                     to conduct a new antislavery paper called The National Era, which
                    made its first appearance on January 1st, 1847, under the auspices of the American and Foreign
                    Antislavery Society. The next year he became its sole proprietor and editor and it was in this paper
                    that Mrs. Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin made its first appearance as
                    a serial. Dr. Bailey's home in 
                        Washington
                     was for years the meeting-place of the true-blue antislavery men and women. The weekly
                    gatherings at which he and Mrs. Bailey presided were social events highly esteemed for their
                    literary and cultural flavor. There one met the charming and talented Mrs. Sara J. Lippincott
                    ("Grace Greenwood"), Mrs. E. D. E. N. Southworth, and the members of Congress who
                    were advocates of freedom.
            In 1839, when the letter here presented was written, Dr. Bailey was still in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , destined to go through much suffering and travail on account of his convictions, but
                    his fine spirit is shown in the communication, and one reading it seems to breathe the tense
                    atmosphere of that time. John Quincy Adams was then in the midst of his great career as a
                    Representative in the lower House of Congress, but he was not ready to demand the abolition of
                    slavery in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , as some of the antislavery advocates urged. He would first abolish the slave trade
                    between the States. These views, Mr. Adams set forth in a speech in January of 1839. His stand
                    aroused much discussion and he was severely criticised by extremists.
            The Mr. Slade mentioned in the letter was William Slade, a Representative from 
                        Vermont
                     and afterwards governor of that State. Giddings lived to see slavery abolished, but
                    Slade and Dr. Bailey did not.
            I have written all this by way of introduction to the letter which follows. At the head of the sheet
                    on which Dr. Bailey wrote is a wood-cut representing 
                        Columbia
                     standing beside a printing-press, while a slave kneels beside her with hands
                    outstretched  as if imploring help. Across the wood-cut appear
                    the words: "Lovejoy, the first Martyr to American Liberty, Murdered for asserting the
                    Freedom of the Press, at 
                        Alton
                    , Nov. 7, 1837."
            [THE LETTER]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 ,
                           
                                    Feb. 7th, 1839
                                
                        Dear Sir,—
                        I had already decided on pursuing the course respecting Mr. Adams suggested by you
                                    and Mr. Slade. Although Mr. Adams is doubtless in error, it is the error of an
                                    honest mind, the error of one who has done much for the cause of freedom, and is
                                    destined, I trust, to do still more. You will perceive that the Emancipator and Philanthropist pursue nearly the same
                                    course in reference to him. As yet I have not thought it expedient to say anything
                                    regarding the conduct hereafter of Abolitionists toward Mr. Adams. I fear the Liberator and Friend of Man may feel it their duty to excite
                                    opposition against him in his own district. We shall see. Then it will be time
                                    enough to speak.
                        You state that you have long proposed to bend your efforts to the single point of
                                    abolishing the slave-trade in the District. In reference to this
                                    question two things are to be considered,—what is proper for the people, and what is proper for the representative. The people's duty, I think, is to petition for all
                                    that is within the reach of the Constitutional power of Congress. Of course I
                                    believe this to be expedient as well as obligatory. The duty of the representative,
                                    I conceive, is to begin to do something. Where,
                                    or how is perhaps of no great importance; as the opposition to a
                                    small movement on the subject will most likely be as strenuous and violent as
                                    opposition to one of more moment. Slaveholders are now tremblingly alive to the
                                    slightest demonstrations of hostility to their beloved institution. They are well
                                    aware that a single movement, though only indirectly unfavorable, would be but the
                                        beginning of a series; and they would array themselves as
                                    fiercely and stubbornly against that as they would against an effort to do all at
                                    once. But, the representative must judge for himself. Assail, if you please, the
                                    slave trade first. Abolitionists will help you. It may be the best way—if
                                    I were on the spot I could better judge. But what we want is action,
                                        now. Do something—only make a beginning—it is only by
                                        aggression that we can put a stop to the further encroachments
                                    of slavery and work its final overthrow. Of one thing however I feel certain.
                                    Attempt seriously to abolish the slave-trade, and the southern representatives will
                                    thunder as furiously as ever about dissolving the Union. To be sure, they will not
                                    do it,—neither would they if the proposition were introduced to abolish
                                    slavery itself, in the District.
                        I rejoice to hear that yourself and Mr. Slade are engaged so earnestly on this
                                    subject. There is no telling how much may be accomplished by the steady,
                                    well-directed, persevering efforts of a few determined  spirits. You have truth, the moral sentiment of the
                                    world, and more than all, the God of truth, on your side. May your counsels and
                                    efforts be ruled and directed by Him!
                        
                                    Yours with much respect
                                    Gamaliel Bailey Jr.
                                
                        Hon. J. R. Giddings
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            LETTERS OF A MASSACHUSETTS WOMAN REFORMER TO AN INDIANA RADICAL
            By JAMES A. BARNES
            
            
                    Introduction
                
            Lydia Maria Frances is well worthy of study as one of the women reformers of America. Historians of
                    the reform movement of the middle nineteenth century have neglected her name, despite the fact that
                    she played a vigorous part on that stage. Miss Frances, who, after her marriage, became well known
                    in America as Lydia Maria Child,1 was born in 
                        Massachusetts
                    .2 From her prodigious amount of writing, one would judge that no 
                        New England
                     reformer possessed more energy or determination. She came from old colonial stock, and
                    undoubtedly possessed a brilliant mind, albeit misinformation at times passed with her as fact. Miss
                    Frances apparently profited greatly from her early training. Her first teacher, says Thomas
                    Wentworth Higginson, was "a spinster of supernatural shyness, the never forgotten calamity
                    of whose life was that Dr. Brooks once saw her drinking water from the nose of her
                        teakettle."3 The children dearly loved "Ma'am
                        Betty,"4 even though she did chew tobacco while holding classes in
                    her untidy bedroom.5 Lydia Maria Frances owed much to her brother, Dr. Covers
                    Frances, Professor in the 
                        Cambridge
                     Theological Seminary, with whom she read 
                        Milton
                     and Shakespeare. It is probable that she got most of her training in the splendid
                    library of this brother, and much of her inspiration from the new group of
                    "Transcendentalists," one of whose favorite meeting-places was the study of Dr.
                    Frances. Here Ralph Waldo Emerson, Margaret Fuller, George Ripley and others came to talk over their
                    anti-Calvin 
                  
                     1 She married David Child in 1828. Their interests became mutual in
                            the anti-slavery crusade.
                  
                     2 At Medford, February 11, 1802.
                  
                     3 Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Contemporaries (
                                Boston
                            , 1899), p. 122.
                  
                     4 Elizabeth Frances. She was not related to Lydia Maria Frances.
                  
                     5 Higginson, Contemporaries, p., 112.
               
                     philosophy and to lay plans for the publication of the Dial.6
            
            Mrs. Child7 apparently did not associate a great deal with the other women
                    reformers of the period, although she was much interested in all the reform movements of the
                        time.8 She seemed to enjoy a "cause" much more than mere
                    reform. No record is left of her ever having appeared in the new style of women's dress,
                    which later took its name from Mrs. Amelia Jenks Bloomer, much to that lady's displeasure.
                    One can scarcely associate her with Dorothea Lynde Dix. It is, in fact, difficult to portray the
                    character or delineate the character of Mrs. Child. She was consistent only in her determination and
                        purpose.9 She read a great deal and wrote profusely, but she had much the
                    same type of mind which William Lloyd Garrison possessed—a mind which, without serious
                    analysis, classified as black or white any moral question which
                    presented itself. Like Garrison, Mrs. Child lived to a ripe old age without showing appreciably the
                    wear of her reform labors. She was a strange combination of religious, reform and humanitarian
                    interests, and was filled with the spirit of optimism which permeated much of America at the
                        time.10 "I hang prisms in my window to fill the room with
                    rainbows", she wrote a friend, to whom she also confided that she read only
                    "chipper" books.11 One cannot escape the feeling, that despite
                    her apparent happiness, she somewhat loved to be weighted with discouragements and difficulties. She
                    proudly thought of herself and her associates as a small group ordained by a higher power to move
                    the world, with the unwilling aid of "some poor mean cattle" yoked to the car of
                    progress by 
                        Providence
                    , and forced to draw in a direction that they were striving to avoid.12
            
            
               
                  6
                        Ibid.
               
                  7 Miss Frances married Mr. Child before she became interested in the
                        anti-slavery cause.
               
                  8 The following lines are from 
                            Lowell
                        's tribute to Mrs. Child included in his poem, "A Fable for
                        Critics": 
                            "The pole, science tells us, the magnet controls, But she is a magnet to
                                emigrant Poles
                            Vice's desperate nursling adrift in 
                                    Broadway
                                .
                            Yes, a great heart is hers, one that dares to go in To the prison, the slave-hut, the
                                alleys of sin, And to bring into each, or to find there, some line Of the never
                                completely out-trampled divine;
                        
               
               
                  9 She opposed the eight-hour working day as curtailing individual liberty.
               
                  10 See Carl Russell Fish, The Rise of The Common Man,
                        (vol. VI of A History of American Life), p. 3.
               
                  11
                        National Cyclopedia of American Biography, II, p. 324.
               
                  12 See letter of April 8, 1865, below.
            
            
            Mrs. Child was not always a reformer; indeed, she was quite a literary figure before meeting the
                    soon-to-be-much-persecuted William Lloyd Garrison. "He got hold of my conscience and pulled
                    me into reforms," she wrote.13 The writing of novels engaged her
                    attention at the early age of nineteen.14 She began the first periodical for
                    children, Juvenile Miscellany, in 1826, and three years later published a
                    cook-book—then almost the necessary starting point for all women interested in entering
                    the literary field. The Frugal Housewife,15 with the
                    frontispiece depicting the best cuts of meat, "chump and spring, sirloin and
                    sperib," and the pages filled with good advice which often remind one of Poor
                        Richard's Almanac, went through thirty-three editions by 1855. "Hard
                    ginger-bread is good to have in the family because it keeps so well," was one bit of
                    wisdom, although Thomas Wentworth Higginson said that it never "kept" in his
                        house.16 Her pen was rarely idle from her first writing until her death.17
            
            By 1830, any editor in America was glad to have a manuscript from Mrs. Child, but this great
                    popularity she soon lost. In 1833, two years after the first issue of Garrison's Liberator, Mrs. Child's first volume in the cause of anti-slavery
                    appeared: An Appeal in Favor of that Class of Americans Called Africans.18 The book lost her many friends and practically ended her literary
                    career—somewhat to her regret, if we are to believe her own words. "My natural
                    inclinations drew me much more strongly towards literature and the arts than towards reform, and the
                    weight of conscience was needed to turn the scales," she confided to her friend, Thomas
                    Went-worth Higginson.19 Garrison and the Liberator had spurred
                    her into a new field of activity. Harriet Martineau wrote of her that she was "a lady of
                    whom society was exceedingly proud before she published her ‘Appeal,’ and to
                    whom society has been extremely contemptuous since."20 Mrs. Child
                    herself wrote that she expected ridicule and censure, but that she 
                  
                     13 See article in National Cyclopedia of American
                                Biography, II, p. 825.
                  
                     14 She published Hobomok: A Tale of Early Times,
                            "By an American" at this age.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Boston
                            , 1829.
                  
                     16
                            Contemporaries, p. 122.
                  
                     17
                            The Rebels, Phllothea, History of Women, biographical writings, etc., mark
                            her long list of publications. The Rebels contains the imaginary speech of
                            James Otis which later got into the school readers and was believed to be true.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Boston
                            , 1833.
                  
                     19
                            Contemporaries, p. 140.
                  
                     20 Harriett Martineau, The Martyr Age of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , an article which appeared in 
                                England
                             and was reprinted in pamphlet form at 
                                Boston
                             in 1839.
               
                     could not fear them. In 1841, the Anti-Slavery
                        Standard appeared with Mrs. Child as editor, though her husband took over the work two
                    years later.21 Unlike her friend, William Lloyd Garrison, Mrs. Child was greatly
                    interested in party contests. She corresponded regularly with the members of the Free
                        Soil party, and wrote many articles as political aids in their campaigns. One of her
                    closest friends in this party was George W. Julian of Indiana, later the son-in-law of Joshua R.
                    Giddings of 
                        Ohio
                    .22 Charles Sumner and Wendell Phillips, 
                        Massachusetts
                     politicians and reformers, were her constant correspondents; and, though she did not
                    "approve his act," John Brown won her sympathy with his raid at Harper's
                        Ferry23 because of the "principle involved." She
                    volunteered her services as nurse to him "there in the land of the enemy."24 With trunk packed, she was compelled to give up the journey, because the
                    proffered aid was declined. The incident brought, however, a great deal of correspondence from the
                    South, much of which was "often grossly insulting," according to Thomas Wentworth
                        Higginson.25 "Do you read your Bible?" wrote Mrs. Mason,
                    of Alto, King George's County, 
                        Virginia
                    . "If you do, read there, ‘Woe unto you hypocrites,’ and
                    take to yourself, with twofold damnation, that terrible sentence; for, rest assured, in the day of
                    judgment, it shall be more tolerable for those thus scathed by the awful denunciations of the Son of
                    God than for you."26
            
            The end of the Civil War did not terminate the work of Mrs. Child in the interest of the negro race.
                    In 1865, she wrote the, perhaps belated, Freedmen's Book,27 a collection of heroic stories, more or less true, about great figures of the negro
                    race. One need not read many of the sketches to judge that the circulation would not be great in the
                    Old South.28 The days of reconstruction were not always cheerful ones for those
                    who had been most interested in the anti-slavery campaign. 
                  
                     21 Mr. Child was ill at the beginning of the publication.
                  
                     22 Mr. Julian married Laura Giddings on Dec. 31, 1863. She was his
                            second wife. Mrs. Child wrote the introduction for Julian's Life of
                                Giddings, and in the Congressional campaigns the Anti-Slavery
                            Standard aided with propaganda.
                  
                     23 See Correspondence Between L. Maria Child and Governor
                                Wise and Mrs. Mason (pamphlet published in New Fork, 1860). See also Higginson, Contemporaries.
                  
                     24
                            lbid.
                  
                     25
                            Contemporaries, p. 134.
                  
                     26
                            Correspondence between L. Maria Child and Gov. Wise and Mrs. Mason.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Boston
                            , 1865.
                  
                     28 Mrs. Child wrote several books on slavery, among them: The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Law; The Right Way and the Safe Way; A
                                Romance of the Republic of 1867.
                  
               
                     It often appeared to them that the ideals for which they had
                    fought were being forgotten. Mrs. Child wrote Wendell Phillips in 1868: "We thank God,
                    friend Phillips, that you are preserved and strengthened to be a wakeful sentinel on the
                    watch-tower, ever to warn a drowsy nation against selfish, timid politicians, and dawdling
                    legislators, who manifest no trust either in God or the people."29
            
            Mrs. Child died in 1880, with the negroes not yet freed so far as her own conception of freedom was
                    concerned, but working diligently in the cause to the very day of her death. Her letters to George
                    W. Julian give a series of pictures of the mind of this indefatigable woman whose writings and
                    sympathy had done, in its day, much to aid the party of the Free Soilers, of whom
                    Julian was one of the leaders.
            The publication of the letters will add but little information concerning the Civil War, but it is
                    hoped that the reading of letters of this type from extremists on both sides of the question may
                    give present-day students of that period a fuller appreciation of the emotional element which played
                    an important part in engendering that struggle—an element which had its growth in the
                    three decades preceding the conflict, and which did not end with the termination of the war. It
                    permeated reconstruction and directed it, perhaps at times unwisely, to a goal which might have been
                    reached much earlier; and it left a bitterness which many feel could have been avoided. A thorough
                    familiarity with this emotional state, North and South, should give scholars of today a better
                    understanding of the apparently inevitable coming of the struggle and the long years of the
                    "Tragic Era" of reconstruction when the nation was trying to heal its wounds and
                    forget its carnage. This was a difficult task because the extremists of each section continued to
                    prod the sores of war. The letters of Mrs. L. Maria Child, 
                        Massachusetts
                     reformer, to George W. Julian, Indiana "Radical", are here presented
                    with the hope that they, with others of the same type, may aid the historian of the period in
                    judging with greater accuracy the great mass of material which confronts him.30
            
            
               
                  29 Higgison, Contemporaries, pp. 139-140.
               
                  30 The letters here published are from the Giddings-Julian collection of
                        manuscripts in the Library of Congress. They were given to the Library by Mrs. Grace Julian
                        Clarke.
            
            
            [THE LETTERS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wayland [Mass.]
                           
                                    Jan. 30th, 1862
                                
                        Mr. Julian,
                        Dear Sir,
                        I thank you very much for your Speech, which seems to me admirably calculated to help
                                    on the good work, at the present all important crisis. I feel personal obligations
                                    to you for bringing so much sound sense and high moral courage to the aid of
                                    Freedom, in its hour of peril. I was glad you ventured to say that our fathers made
                                    a mistakle at the beginning in admitting compromises into the Constitution.1 It is a true word. Wholesale lauding of the Constitution has
                                    made it an object of idol-worship. It is undoubtedly a valuable document, wise in
                                    nearly all its parts. But the best feature of a Republican Government is the power
                                    to modify it, according to the needs of the people. I suppose our fathers did really
                                    believe that slavery would be short-lived in this country, yet when my reverence for
                                    them leads me to make this excuse, I never can forget the ugly fact that they
                                    legislated for the continuance of the African Slave Trade twenty years. The fact is,
                                    they were determined to have a Union, on any terms; and the South
                                    then, as now, were imperious and unprincipled in their demands. The wise and good
                                    men of that time adopted a great fallacy, when they supposed that any compromise of moral principles could be transitory in
                                    its effects. Our politicians, with few exceptions, have gone on ever since in the
                                    same path; and whether our crooked ways will ever be made straight, God alone knows.
                                    Only seven generations have passed away since that noble band of Puritans in the
                                    May-Flower made their memorable covenant with God: "As the Lord's
                                    free people, we will walk in all His ways made known, or to be known to us,
                                    according to our best endeavors, whatever it may cost
                                        us."2 Only seven generations! And now how
                                    difficult it is to find a man who really believes in God! If there had been anything
                                    like a general state of moral healthfulness in the Free States, they would have long
                                    ago insisted upon calling a Convention of the people to modify the Constitution. But
                                    Alas! the same year that witnessed the landing of those sturdy freemen of the Lord
                                    in the May Flower, witnessed the landing of negro slaves.3 It
                                    was a mysterious 
                                        Providence
                                    , that brought these two antagonistic elements in juxtaposition in this
                                    grand new field of human progress. If we could only get rid of the
                                    virus infused throughout the blood of our body politic! But it is not an excresence
                                    to be cut off; it has infected the whole system with disease. If all the Slave States had seceeded, the prospects for freedom would be hopeful;
                                    but I fear the Union Slaveholders are dragging us all down to ruin.
                        As for the government, I had better say nothing; for on that theme,
                                    I find it difficult to keep within bounds. Never had men such a glorious opportunity
                                    to redeem a country and immortalize themselves. Never did men show themselves so
                                    miserably deficient in all the qualities, which 
                              
                                 1 The Radicals in the North favored State's
                                            rights. See James L. Sellers, "Republicansim and States Rights in 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            ."
                              
                                 2 This is not in the Mayflower Compact according to
                                            Bradford's draft.
                              
                                 3 The first slaves were landed in 
                                                Virginia
                                             in August, 1619.
                           
                                     the crisis demanded! When I see the great
                                    swelling tide of popular enthusiasm oose [sic] away through the
                                    slimy mud of shallow diplomacy, it seems as if my heart would break.
                        Thanks, thanks, to you, and Mr. Conway, and Mr. Lovejoy, Mr. Stevens, and others, who
                                    try to keep the sacred fire of freedom alive on our national altar! We are not worthy of becoming an example to the nations;
                                    and perhaps the best use God can put us to is to make a warning.
                        But I still hope, especially as you, Mr. Sumner, Mr. Greely, and others, in whose
                                    judgment I place confidence, agree in thinking that the new Secretary of War is
                                    ‘the right man in the right place.’
                        With cordial thanks for your kind expressions to me personally, I am, with truest
                                    respect and gratitude,
                        
                                    L. Maria Child.
                                
                        P.S. I will do all I can to extend the circulation of your speech.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Wayland,
                           
                                    June 16th, 1862.
                        Hon. Mr. Julian,
                        Dear Sir,
                        I thank you, from the depths of my soul, for your Speech on Confiscation and
                                        Liberation.4 It has strengthened and cheered me more than
                                    any words that have come to me since the war began.5 And I have
                                        needed strengthening, as you can readily imagine. I am
                                    thankful for what has been done. Thankful to see a Congress freed,
                                    in a great measure, from the fear of the Southern whip; thankful for emancipation in
                                    the District, for the recognition of Hayti and Liberia, for the extermination of
                                    slavery in places under U.S. jurisdiction, for the prohibition of its extension into
                                    new Territories. But, mingled with all this, there is so much to grieve and
                                    exasperate every true friend of freedom and progress, that at times I cannot shake
                                    off despondency. So few seem to have any clear perception of the great principles of
                                    justice and humanityl So few realize that without righteousness there can be no permanent peace and prosperity! With a few noble exceptions, I
                                    look in vain among politicians for anything like true repentance for the grievous,
                                    long-continued wrongs done to the colored people,—even for any
                                    acknowldgement of their right to redress. The
                                    only question seems to be whether it will most serve our interests
                                    to abuse them, or to use them. When I see the poor, much-enduring slaves looking to
                                    the U.S. so hope-fully, trusting to us for liberation, willing and
                                    anxious to serve us, yet in so many cases sent back to the vengeance of their
                                    masters, my soul is filled with an agony of shame and sorrow, which language is
                                    altogether 
                              
                                 4 Delivered in the House May 23, 1862 on the bill to
                                            confiscate the property and free from servitude the slaves of rebels. Speech
                                            in Congressional Record, Appendix, vol. 62, 37 Congress,
                                            2nd Session, pp. 184-186.
                              
                                 5 In a letter to Miss Livy Osgood later she wrote that
                                            she had had only one approach to pleasure since the war began "and
                                            that was when I read 
                                                Fremont
                                            's proclamation." Letters of L.
                                                Maria Child, 
                                                Boston
                                            , 1883, p. 162.
                           
                                     inadequate to express.6 In
                                    view of such things, I cannot see what right this nation has to expect to be saved;
                                    it seems impossible that a just God can save a people whose moral sense is so
                                    woefully perverted.
                        If I had almighty power swift thunderbolts would fall on the heads of every military
                                    slave-catcher, and on every politician who strives to shield them in their mean,
                                    dastardly, cruel work.7 But the All Wise One who is so visibly
                                    guiding events, will make even these base men help on the work of freedom. Every
                                    surrender of a fugitive has swelled the great tide of the popular heart, that I hope
                                    will soon be strong enough to break down all the dikes and barriers of legalized
                                    oppression. I very much prefer to see emancipation come in an orderly way; and I have waited long, and tried to be patient, hoping to see it
                                    thus accomplished; but a stormy tide swells ever more and more in my breast, as I
                                    watch the timid, fluctuating policy of the government, and I am ready to exclaim, If
                                    it cannot be done in order, then, in the name of the God of
                                    justice, let it be done in disorder! I abhor war, and have the greatest dread of
                                    military supremacy; yet I have become so desperate with hope-deferred, that a hurra
                                    goes up from my heart, when the army rises to carry out God's laws, though
                                    it involves the necessity of trampling on the civil authorities working in the
                                    service of Satan. This exultation arises from no partisan feeling in favor of the
                                    colored people exclusively. I feel thus because I am convinced, as you are, that
                                    this is the great battle of Armageddon between the Angels of Freedom and the Demons
                                    of Despot-ism. The aristocrats of Europe do but obey their affinities in siding with
                                    the South. They are birds of the same feather, claws, and beak; birds of prey all of them.
                        I have often thought of the wonderful leadings of 
                                        Providence
                                     in making slaveholders do His work by means of their
                                    own aggressions upon freedom. Little did they know what giant they were waking from
                                    his slumbers, when they sought to crush out free 
                                        Kansas
                                    , and to assasinate Charles Sumner8 for pointing out
                                    to the people the prints of their bloody heels!9 When, by hopes
                                    of the Presidency, they hired Daniel Webster to sustain the infamous Fugitive Slave
                                    Bill, they did not see, rising from that Act, a vision of Uncle Tom, destined to
                                    kindle the heart of the civilized world to a white heat, that would brand their
                                    institutions as the ugliest system of depotism that had ever disgraced and cursed
                                    the ages.10
                        
                        Your recapitulation of the events in which they have been unconsciously the agents of
                                    God's will is an echo of my own frequent thoughts. The over-ruling hand is
                                    so plain in the dark gathering of the clouds, 
                              
                                 6 Julian openly said on the floor of the House that
                                            the policy of the Administration was to return the escaped slaves, which
                                            "renders necessary some action on the part of Congress, looking to
                                            a change of that policy." Congressional Record,
                                            37 Congress, vol. 59, p. 69, 2nd session, Dec. 11, 1861.
                              
                                 7 Giddings wrote Julian as early as February 21, 1852,
                                            "I think those who kill tyrants and negro catchers do
                                            God's will." Mss. Library of Congress.
                              
                                 8 Brooks' attack on Sumner.
                              
                                 9 See "The Crime Against 
                                                Kansas
                                            " in Sumner's Complete
                                            Works, Statesman's Edition (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1900), Vol. V, pp. 137-266.
                              
                                 10 Mrs. Child, as did practically all 
                                                New England
                                            , believed that Webster was bidding for the Presidency in his
                                            Seventh of March Speech, a great conciliatory address delivered in the
                                            Senate during the crisis of 1850.
                           
                                     as well as in the lurid flash of the lightning,
                                    that in view of it, I cannot but thank God and take courage. But when I turn from
                                    that view, and watch the U.S. government, so wickedly willing to abjure all
                                    principles of justice and humanity, so insanely blind to enlightened policy, in their fear of offending the Border States; when I see so many
                                    of our military men, mere military chieftians, incapable of
                                    understanding that human souls are living spirits, and not mere drill-machines; when
                                    I look on that side, I need to be re-assured by brave, manly
                                    words, like yours.
                        Oh! those Border States! They seem to be dragging the whole nation into the gulf of
                                    ruin. If God meant to save this country, why didn't he allow all the slaveholders to go wild with madness of secession? The Borders are
                                    really as completely demented by slavery, as are the open rebels, only, being
                                    situated just as they are, they deem it the best policy to profess
                                    loyalty. If the whole insane hospital were equally mad, there would be some hope of
                                    getting them into strait jackets and restoring them to reason by kind and judicious
                                    treatment; but what is to be done with these disguised lunatics?
                                    Every day, I pray to God, in agony of soul to remove from our government that
                                    night-mare fear of the Border States, which, by the mere force of a fearful dream, chains its will and paralizes [sic] its
                                        motions.11 That we shall ultimately conquer the rebels by
                                    force of arms seems to admit of little doubt; but if they continue slaveholders, our
                                    terrible struggle will be invested with no moral dignity, and it will have no more
                                    value as a historical lesson for the human race. God will indeed turn it into a warning, for the peace thus bought would prove no peace. Perhaps we are not worthy to fulfil any higher mission than a
                                    warning. But I love my country, and most devoutly wish we might do something for the
                                    world better than that. Our own safety, as well as our moral
                                    standing among the nations, requires the overthrow of their baneful system. If we
                                    conquer them, what can we do with the turbulent, chaotic mass of arrogance and
                                    violence, which the habits of slave holding inevitably produce? There can be no real peace or union, unless the spirit of their
                                    population is changed, and that can be done only by the salutary
                                    influence of free institutions. The Unitarian minister of Fitchburg prayed, the
                                    other day, "Oh, God, we pray thee to bless the rebels. Bless their hearts
                                    with sincere repentance. Bless their armies with defeat. Bless their social
                                    condition by emancipation." And truly a proclamation of emancipation would
                                    be the greatest good that we could confer upon the slaveholders.
                                    Oh, that we Americans really believed in Freedom! that sacred name, which we so
                                    often take in vain. It is wonderful how that faith has degenerated among us. I
                                    sometimes think there was no other possible way of regenerating this people, than
                                    this dreadful war.
                        I have long thought, and though few agree with me, I cannot banish the idea from my
                                    mind, that the rebels, in their last extremity of desperation, will resort to
                                    emancipation, as the only means of securing the 
                              
                                 11 The radicals did not approve of 
                                                Lincoln
                                            's border states action. particularly in regard to 
                                                Kentucky
                                            .
                           
                                     assistance of 
                                        England
                                     and 
                                        France
                                    .12 Their pride is so indomitable, that they will do
                                        anything rather than submit to the U.S.; and there is no other
                                    way in which they could so effectually humiliate us, and secure to their cause the
                                    sympathy of the world! John Bull and Monsieur Crepeau would like nothing better than
                                    to help in the dismemberment of these States;13 and if the South
                                    is sagacious enough to take that step, they can do it, not only
                                    without offending the moral sense of their own people and of the civilized world,
                                    but they would be sure to receive universal plaudits, as missionaries of freedom,
                                    justice, and humanity, while they were in fact merely serving the purposes of their
                                    own selfishness. I have never believed that M. Mercier went to 
                                        Richmond
                                     merely to see about tobacco.14 Why is he now going
                                    to 
                                        France
                                    , and Lord Lyon to 
                                        England
                                    ? Why is Slidell's Secretary hurring home to Secessia from 
                                        Paris
                                    ?
                        The South has always been too cunning for us; and I cannot think she will lose this
                                    chance to make use of the advantage, which we have been so afraid to avail ourselves
                                    of. If she does so, the U.S. government will wake up too late to a sense of its
                                    folly. It will become the laughing stock of the civilized world. The Border States
                                    will no longer place any value on the institution they are now so willing to
                                    sacrifice the country to sustain, and Sambo will be amply revenged upon us for
                                    rejecting the services he was so willing to render us in our hour of need. It is
                                    such a beautiful program of just retribution, that it really seems as if 
                                        Providence
                                    
                                    ought to carry it into operation. Sometimes I chuckle over it in
                                    thought, but I am soon saddened; for I love my country, and should be mortified and
                                    grieved to see her in such a disgraceful position before the world. Yet it seems to
                                    me the chances are ten to one that it will be so. Well, we must
                                    comfort ourselves with the fact that we shall in that case be emancipated from
                                    slave-holding rule, from the Border States and all.
                        May God bless you, as my grateful heart blesses you. Yours with respect and
                                    gratitude,
                        
                                    L. Maria Child.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wayland,
                           
                                    April 8th, 1865.15
                           
                                
                        Dear Mr. Julian,
                        During the first years of the struggle, I felt most painfully the want of moral
                                    grandeur in the contest, and the consequent absence of public enthusiasm. Enthusiasm
                                    is the strongest power that moves the human soul; but it is impossible for men to be
                                    impelled by it unless some 
                              
                                 12 The Confederate States did attempt a resort to this
                                            method. Just before the end of the war President Davis sent Duncan F. Kenner
                                            to Europe with such a proposal. See John Holladay Latane. A
                                                History of American Foreign Policy (
                                                New York
                                            , 1928) pp. 397-398.
                              
                                 13
                                            
                                                England
                                             did regard the Civil War in America as the end of the
                                            experiment of the republican form of government. One English historian wrote
                                            a book on republican governments from the rise of the Greek republic to the
                                            downfall of the republic of the 
                                                United States
                                            .
                              
                                 14 Secretary Seward, after failing in his European war
                                            scheme, became very courteous and allowed the French permission to take
                                            tobacco from 
                                                Virginia
                                            .
                              
                                 15 Mrs. Child undoubtedly wrote other letters in the
                                            intervening years, but they are not preserved in the Giddings-Julian
                                            collection.
                           
                                     great idea inspires them;
                                    unless they feel that some great principle is at stake.
                        How sad and cold were the hearts of our poor soldiers, perishing by hecatombs in the
                                    swamps, while serpentine Seward was coolly [sic] playing his
                                    diplomatic game with the King of Spades for his trump card! But
                                    even this unprincipled and cruel delay was over-ruled for good. If we had had
                                    thorough, conscientious, energetic rulers, in cabinet and field, the war would have
                                    been brought to a close so soon, that we, in the pride of quick success, should have
                                    shoved aside the black man, as of no account in the settlement of our difficulties.
                                    Had it not been for reiterated calls upon our sons to fill the ranks of the army,
                                    popular opinion would never have sanctioned the arming of the negroes; and the
                                    present feeling in favor of emancipation is largely owing to the fact that their blood has been shed to spare ours. And
                                    even the question of negro suffrage, against which the strongest feelings of pride
                                    and prejudice have been arrayed, is continually gaining ground; and that too among
                                    men who have been conservative. They are not brought to it by a sense of justice, or
                                    by conversion to liberal principles. They are compelled by the fact that rebel
                                    voters, and their old allies the democratic party, must be held in
                                    check by the introduction of this new element.
                        But we must not forget that all great revolutions and reformations would look mean
                                    and meagre, if examined in details, as they occurred at the time. It is marvellous
                                    by how small a force the world is moved, in point of numbers, when God is on their
                                    side. Still more wonderful is it to observe what poor, mean cattle God yokes to the
                                    car of progress, and makes them draw in a direction they are striving to avoid. It
                                    has been most strikingly illustrated in the course of this war. The details are
                                    often ludicrous exhibitions of human inconsistency and selfishness; but the result
                                    is a sublime manifestation of an over-ruling 
                                        Providence
                                    .
                        I think we have reason to thank God for Abraham Lincoln. With all his deficiencies,
                                    it must be admitted that he has grown continually; and, considering how Slavery had
                                    weakened and perverted the moral sense of the whole country, it was great good luck
                                    to have the people elect a man who was willing to grow.
                        It seems as if events have pushed the car of government so far on the radical track,
                                    that Satan himself could not now, by any exertion of force or cunning, restore
                                    things to their former condition. Yet I am far from feeling secure about a safe and
                                    judicious reconstruction. The old Satanic fire will long remain in the ashes of the
                                    rebellion. If those tyrannical oligarchs have their land-monopoly restored, they
                                    will trample on the blacks and the poor whites, as of old.16
                                    Those mammoth plantations ought to be divided into small farms, and an allotted
                                    number of acres given to the soldiers, white and black. The remainder should be sold
                                    by government to the emancipated slaves, and the poor whites, at a moderate price,
                                    and with reasonable terms of credit. I do hope the President's good nature
                                    will not prevent his confiscating the lands of the leading and influential rebels. I
                                    do not desire this from any feeling 
                              
                                 16 This fear among the radicals was probably
                                            responsible for many of the demands made on the South during
                                        reconstruction.
                           
                                     of resentment, but simply because the safety of
                                    the country requires that those haughty, unscrupulous men should have no nucleus of
                                    future power left to them. Moreover, the monopoly of large tracts of land is wrong
                                        everywhere, and under all circumstances;
                                    and, like all wrong things, it is injurious in its consequences.
                        Another point on which I feel considerable anxiety is concerning the ratification of
                                    the amendment to the Constitution. Our ruling powers, in their zeal against State
                                    Sovereignty, have strenuously insisted, from the outset, that the Rebel States are
                                        not out of the Union, and cannot be out of
                                    the Union; though while maintaining this doctrine they have been compelled by
                                    circumstances to treat them practically as belligerent powers.
                                    Does not this position bring them into an awkward dilemma on the question of
                                    ratification? If all those States are in the Union, how can the Constitution be
                                    lawfully amended without the concurrence of their votes? Mr. Child said, from the
                                    beginning, that this position was not tenable, and would prove a breaker ahead when
                                    the time of reconstruction came. He has always maintained, in legal phraseology,
                                    that the Rebel States were out of the Union de facto, though not
                                    out of it de jure. He illustrates it by alleging that the War
                                    Power annuls all treaties between belligerent nations, de facto,
                                    though the treaties are obviously not annulled de jure, since war
                                    is often made for the express purpose of compelling the observance of those very
                                    treaties. If this view of the subject be correct, it seems to be necessary that
                                    government should abandon its theory, or the ratification of the amendement will
                                    be-come a vexed question.17
                        
                        Have you taken notice of the Speeches of Gen. Grantt [sic]? He
                                    seems to me to be doing a very important work, and doing it in noble style. He must
                                    have a large, sincere, and generous character. I hope he will receive a great deal
                                    of kindness and sympathy from Northerners, to make up, in some degree, for the ties
                                    ruptured by his honest and magnanimous confession of his errors. "It takes
                                    live fish to swim up stream." We have plenty of dead ones
                                    carried on by the current.
                        These are exciting times, are they not? When Garrison's son enters
                                    Charleston at the head of black troops; and Abraham Lincoln sends dispatches from
                                    Jeff Davis's house. Now, when victory seems secure, I trust the U.S. will
                                    show itself magnanimous and merciful. I trust our record will not be blotted by
                                    anything like revenge. Certainly, the leaders out [sic] to be put out of the way of
                                    doing further mischief; but I wish there might be no clamoring for blood. I would
                                    deprive them of power, but not of life.
                        
                                    Yours most respectfully,
                                    L. Maria Child.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  17 This difficulty was avoided by making ratification a necessary part of
                        reconstruction.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Wayland,
                           
                                    Jan. 22d, 1866.
                        Mr. Julian,
                        Dear Sir,
                        I am much obliged to you for sending me your offhand speech.18
                                    Though somewhat savage in its justice, I was obliged to laugh over it continually. I
                                    hardly knew which to admire most, its frankness, its wit, or its logic. I have
                                    always had a partiality for the Western cut-and-thrust style, of which your Speech
                                    is a felicitous specimen.
                        I cannot say that I wish to have Jeff Davis hung, thought I wish to
                                    have him restrained from doing further mischief through the remainder of his life. I
                                    have been, for years, much opposed to capital punishment; because I think it has a
                                    brutalizing influence on the public mind, and does not tend to diminish crime, as is
                                    generally supposed. I consider it a remnent of barbarism, with which the world will
                                    dispense, as it advances in civilization. But as long as anybody
                                    is hung, I can see no good reason why Jeff Davis should be exempted from the
                                    penalty. He is undoubtedly one of the most guilty and reckless criminals the world
                                    has ever produced. Nor can I understand why Lee should be a gentleman at large,
                                    while such a poor wretch as Wurth, who was a subordinate, subject to his orders,
                                    should be hung. Apparently, all distinctions of right and wrong are confounded,
                                    because Lee must be handled with velvet gloves, by reason of his being Lord of
                                    Arlington House.19 The tameness with which we submit to Southern
                                    audacity may well be taken by slave-holders as proof of their old doctrine, that they are born to rule, and we are to be ruled. At the moment of
                                    defeat, the rebels would have yielded to any terms, without
                                    difficulty. Then was the golden moment to secure everything that was necessary for
                                    the future peace of the government; but that golden moment was lost; and there is
                                    much truth in the ancient saying that "the gods themselves cannot save men
                                    who neglect opportunities." It was our misfortune to have for President,
                                    and for military leaders, men who had been educated in the school of the Democratic
                                    Party. The old habit of fraternizing with slaveholders clung to them. At the moment
                                    when they should have treated them as traitors, they were seized
                                    with a mania for treating them as unfortunate gentlemen. By that process they warmed
                                    the chilled vipers into activity. They have shown their vivaciousness by stinging
                                    the poor freedmen, and they will sting us, if Congress does not stop them from
                                    running at large. What numerous accounts we have of freedmen tormented and murdered!
                                    and how very few instances there have been of any adequate retributive justice in
                                    such cases! So far as I can learn by the newspapers, the President himself has taken
                                    no notice of these atrocities, except to assure the delegation of 
                                        South Carolina
                                     slaveholders that he did not believe a word of such
                                    reports. He, who had had such good opportunities for knowing what
                                    sort of characters slavery produces! I don't know what the poor freedmen
                                    think of their "Moses," But, if they knew enough
                                    to quote poetry, I should think they would say "Humane to lords and ladies, 
                              
                                 18 Speech of January 16, 1866 on the right of suffrage
                                            in the 
                                                District of Columbia
                                            . See Select Speeches of George W. Julian
                                            (pamphlet, 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1867) pp. 88-46.
                              
                                 19 Arlington was taken over by the Federal government
                                            in 1861; in 1864 it was made into a national cemetery by order of the
                                            Secretary of War.
                           
                                    
                                    kings & counts, Humane to such as we? Believe it not. The
                                    king, to do his cousin kindness, Will canter over acres of our bodies."
                        Andy Johnson's conduct in 
                                        Tennessee
                                    , during the war, inspired me with confidence in him. But his
                                    proceedings since he came to the Presidency make me fear he is one of that very
                                    common class of spurious democrats, who hate aristocracy merely because they are not born to it. Such democrats are always ready
                                    to kiss the feet of aristocrats, as soon as they doff their caps to them, though it
                                    be obviously for the mere purpose of accomplishing their own designs. Some say he
                                    will bring all out right at last. If he does, I believe it will be because Congress
                                    compels him to do it.
                        I did not send you "The Freedman's Book"20 for your own edification; but because I thought you would like to know what
                                    was being done for them; and also that you might like to give it away. Mr. C. unites
                                    with me in respect and good wishes for you.
                        
                           Yours truly,
                                    L. Maria Child.
                        I agree with you that you would run small chance to be a voter, if hand-writing
                                    were an indispensable qualification. Crows might as well vote by reason of their
                                    tracks in the mud.21
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              "Wayland,
                           
                                    April 14th 1870
                                
                        Dear Mrs Julian,
                        Like Portia, who was Brutus wife and Cato's daughter, you are doubly honored
                                    and blessed in your parentage and your marriage. Your father's22 picture hangs in my little sitting-room with Sumner, and
                                    Phillips, Garrison and Whittier. How I honored and loved the brave old man! With
                                    what avidity I used to devour his Speeches in those Stormy times.
                        We are a couple of white-haired old hermits, going nowhere, and receiving no company.
                                    But our interest in public affairs is as lively as ever;
                        
                                    Yours very cordially,
                                    L. Maria Child.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Wayland,
                           
                                    Sept. 28th, 1878.
                        Dear Mr. Julian,
                        The rapidity of changes in these days is somewhat bewildering.
                                    Having known the wonderful enthusiasm, self-sacrifice, and courageous daring of the
                                    early abolitionists, I find it difficult to realize how completely the anti-slavery
                                    struggle is forgotten by the people; and 
                              
                                 20 Printed at 
                                                Boston
                                            , 1865 and distributed at cost by missionaries and teachers. The
                                            proceeds, after paying the cost of printing, were turned over to the
                                            organization for aiding the freedmen.
                              
                                 21 In reference to the requirement of reading and
                                            writing as necessary qualifications to voting.
                              
                                 22 Joshua R. Giddings.
                           
                                     how even the terribule expenditure of blood and
                                    treasure, which followed it, is fast sinking into oblivion.
                        Wendell Phillips was telling me, the other day, of his conversation with a highly
                                    educated young citizen of 
                                        Boston
                                    , 26 years old. Mr. P. alluded to the possibility of mobs. "Oh,
                                    they never have mobs in 
                                        
                                            Boston
                                        
                                    ," replied the young man. To say that to Mr. Phillips, of all men!
                        When Mr. P. told him there had been violent outbreaks in 
                                        Boston
                                    , he exclaimed, "Indeed! What were the mobs about? I never heard of them."
                        If the ill-feeling of the South had passed away as easily as the moral indignation of
                                    the North, I should be glad. But the lamentable misfortune is that emancipation was
                                    not the result of a popular moral sentiment, but of a miserable
                                    "military necessity." It was not the ‘fruit of
                                    righteousness,’ and therefore it is not "peace."
                        When Charles Sumner was in the Senate, and you were in the House, I used to read all
                                    the proceedings of Congress, and I knew how every member was likely to vote on all
                                    important questions. I felt my soul expanded by the large views, and lifted up by
                                    the high moral standard, which characterized some members of Congress then. But,
                                    alas, where are our great men now?
                        I am sorry to hear that your health is "prematurely broken down."
                                    The old machine of my body is worn by long use; but it continues
                                    to work well. I am very respectfully & very cordially your old friend, and
                                    admirer.
                        
                                    L. Maria Child.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Seed of Liberty, The Story of the American Colonies. By E. KEBLE CHATTERTON. The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1929. Pp. 356, $5.00. Illustrated.
            Since the titles of this book do not make a definite claim that the book is a history, it should
                    perhaps not be measured by historical standards. The preface indicates that it is an attempt to tell
                    the history of the development of American liberty to the Declaration of Independence. To one
                    familiar with the fundamental causes of the American Revolution, the book would seem to omit many
                    important chapters bearing on that subject and to introduce many interesting details only indirectly
                    related thereto. For instance the author devotes, out of 333 pages, 22 to the Columbian voyages, 87
                    pages to the Elizabethan seamen, 160 to the founding of 
                        Virginia
                     and to the first thirty years of her history, 33 pages to the founding of all the other
                    colonies, 14 pages to the history of the colonies from 1640 to 1763 and 12 pages to the
                    preliminaries of the War for Independence. Even in these later divisions much space is devoted to 
                        Virginia
                    .
            The author's account of 
                        Columbus
                     is a little old-fashioned and not abreast the more recent critical investigations on
                    that subject. In discussing the Elizabethan seamen and the early voyages to 
                        Virginia
                     the author is at his best. He has a good understanding of seafaring and has shown
                    admirably how the opening up of the new world was first of all a problem of mastering the Atlantic.
                    The story of the founding of 
                        Virginia
                     is quite accurately told in considerable detail. He does not, however, make clear just
                    how the Puritans gained control of the 
                        London
                     Company and why the Court of the Company instructed Yeardly to call an assembly.
                    Throughout the remainder of the book the author is apparently less well informed. Errors are rather
                    frequent and there is a lack of understanding.
            The book is without footnotes and the critical reader will perhaps wish that the author had cited his
                    authority for some of the following: "A fourth French voyage resulted in the extermination
                    of the Spaniards" (p. 103); "
                        Nova Scotia
                    , … this  Gallicized island" (p.
                    105); "Change over to a royal master must inevitably mean a threat to liberty with the
                    certainty some day of a revolt for the acquisition of Independence;"(p. 248); "
                        Maryland
                     created as the first English colony where liberty in matters of faith was eventually to
                    be established by law (p. 273); "Separatists … who attended services other than
                    such as were prescribed by law" (p. 276); "Pilgrims came from 
                        England
                     with … a license from the 
                        Plymouth
                     Company" (p. 277); "Seventy-four English non-conformists. with
                    twenty-eight women of John Robinson's Church at Leyden formed the historic Pilgrim
                    Father's Expedition" (p. 276); speaking of events in 1622, "another six
                    years had to pass before the New 
                        Plymouth
                     colony was permanently settled" (p. 281); 
                        Mason
                     and Gorges in 1629 got a patent for Laconia "embracing Lake
                        Champlain with its vicinity" (p. 287); In 1629, 159 people settled at
                    Charlton (p. 289); In 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay, in 1631, "two deputies being sent from each settlement to advise
                    assistants" (p. 293); "John Winthrop … became 
                        Connecticut
                    's Governor in 1635" (p. 298); "Essential to emphasize that
                    the 
                        New England
                     policy from the first was distinctly Separatist" (p. 323);
                    "proprietor of 
                        Maryland
                     had offered religious liberty" (p. 311); "interference by the Board
                    of Trade had also prevented a plan of confederation" in 1754 (p. 325); Board of Trade in
                    1752 "obtained complete control over colonial trade" (p. 325); "
                        Virginia
                     had now for offspring, 
                        Maryland
                    , North and 
                        South Carolina
                    , 
                        Georgia
                    " (p. 328).
            Occasionally the reader feels that the author after ambling along easily has suddenly remembered that
                    he is supposed to be writing about Liberty and has then dragged the word or idea
                    in by force (pp. 8, 188, 248, 256, 306, 324).
            The style is generally clear and simple. Occasionally there are sentences a little too fine to be
                    entirely true. The following may serve as an example: "We have seen the theme of discontent
                    which was running through the whole of the 
                        Virginia
                     story and must some day be heard in the final symphony of Independence. Not less
                    discernible is the motif which from the first begins in the primitive 
                        New England
                     music, and must at the finale mingle with the clashing 
                        Virginia
                     notes" (p. 296).
            ALBERT L. KOHLMEIER.
         
         
         
            
               George Rogers Clarke and the Revolution in 
                            Illinois
                        , 1763-1789. By THEODORE CALVIN PEASE and MARGARET JENNISON PEASE. 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library and 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Society, 
                        Springfield
                    , 1929. Pp. 96. Illustrated.
            This monograph presented by Dr. and Mrs. Pease as a sesquicentennial memorial is a highly informative
                    treatise written in simple and compact form. It consists of four chapters and an epilogue. The
                    chapters are divided into sub-heads ranging from ten in the first to five in the fourth. It traces
                    with careful and exact detail the entire story of the 
                        Illinois Country
                     in all its connections with the American Revolution beginning with early French
                    foundations and ending with the last days of the old regime in 
                        Illinois
                     and the organization of 
                        St. Clair County
                     in 1790. A vast deal of collateral information is presented touching all the important
                    factors of a geographical, political, racial, and personal nature. Step by step this thrilling and
                    vital history is told with a simplicity that might be characterized as effective understatement.
            Although George Rogers Clark is the central figure of the story, his career is related in a terse and
                    seemingly almost indirect manner without any attempt whatever to cast a halo over him. His early
                    western career on the upper 
                        Ohio
                     and in 
                        Kentucky
                     up to the time he reached 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , July 4, 1778, is covered in less than five pages. The taking of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Cahokia and his dealings with the Creoles, Spaniards, and Indians occupy a little
                    over three pages. The heroic expedition to 
                        Vincennes
                     and dramatic capture of Fort Sackville comprise about three pages. For the rest, Clark
                    is only mentioned incidentally here and there but he looms up in stalwart proportions everywhere and
                    possibly all the more so because of the scholarly restraint with which he is depicted.
            The authors do not urge conclusions as to Clark's heroic achievement but the conclusions
                    appear clearly by the mere fact of terse historic recital. The fact that Clark's conquests
                    over the British in the West resulted decisively in giving this region to the 
                        United States
                     and keeping it from 
                        Spain
                    , is made definite and clear (p. 65): 
                        Had he not taken possession of the British posts in 
                                Illinois
                             in 1778, it can be taken as a certainty that the Spaniards would have done it
                            the next year when they were at war with Great Britain. Once they were  established in possession in the 
                                Illinois
                            , the 
                                United States
                             might well have abandoned all hope of it.
                    
                
            It is also shown that the failure of 
                        Virginia
                     to support Clark to the point of actually reaching the site of 
                        Detroit
                     did not lessen the ultimate fact of conquest nor the debt of gratitude owed to Clark;
                    but only lessened 
                        Virginia
                    's claim and made the debt to him due from the nation at large the greater.
            Notwithstanding the brevity of the study, it contains such a vast amount of concrete material that it
                    ought to be fully indexed. There are a number of full-page illustrations including portraits of
                    Clark, General Gage, Colonel Morgan, Governor Rocheblave, Father Gibault, and Lord Shelburne
                    together with a picture of the site of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and an early Revolutionary map of the West.
            The Epilogue makes touching reference to the misfortunes of Clark's later
                    career beginning with this striking sentence: 
                        The ancient Greeks would have taken the later career of George Rogers Clark as an
                            exemplification of their belief that the gods, jealous of human achievement, sometimes
                            delighted in proving mortal weakness by heaping undeserved and crushing misfortune on the
                            head of a man who had done great things.
                    
                
            His historical and scientific contributions are referred to as follows: 
                        The cloud that enveloped him sometimes lifted to show something of the old Clark. He could
                            begin a memoir of his exploits that displays no trace of failing power. He could dissect
                            with sure scalpel the extravagant theory of Pelatiah Webster that the mysterious earthworks
                            of the Ohio and Mississippi valleys were the work
                            of De Soto's men; he could state sharply his own conviction, long after to be
                            adopted by scientists, that the mounds were the work of the progenitors of the red men of
                            his day.
                    
                
            The monograph ends with this dramatic climax: 
                        George Rogers Clark passed over, we may imagine, to that company of like spirits whose
                            immortality the genius of Plutarch has set like mordant to endure for the ages. The score
                            and more of centuries that lay between Roman and Virginian could be bridged by the common
                            understanding of men who have been patriots, have against great odds led their fellow
                            citizens to victory, and have learned that republics are ungrateful.
                    
                
            ROSS F. LOCKRIDGE.
         
         
         
            
               Life in 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               . By LEE BURNS. Indiana Historical
                    Society Publications, vol. 8, no. 9. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1929. Pp. 24.
            So much attention has been focused on 
                        Vincennes
                     recently, owing to the anniversary of its capture by George Rogers Clark, that the
                    appearance of this readable little monograph, giving the atmosphere of the early life in the French
                    settlement, seems very timely. The period covered is approximately from 1778 to 1828. In addition to
                    secondary sources, the author has relied mostly upon descriptions of the community by early
                    travelers and contemporary newspaper files and tavern daybooks. A variety of subjects is mentioned
                    such as the wild animal and plant life, the crops, food, industries, the architecture of the houses,
                    "he social and commercial life, the early laws of the territory, and prominent inhabitants
                    of the town, such as the fur traders, the tavern keepers and the political leaders.
            Some of the activities of personages rather prominent in the history of the state are indicated by
                    the billiard record in the Graeter Tavern daybook. In the tavern was a billiard table and the charge
                    for each game was 8 1/3 cents. In the spring of 1809, Governor Harrison was charged for twenty-five
                    games and Jonathan Jennings, his political rival, was charged for sixty games.
            In his account of the first newspaper of Indiana Territory, the writer follows the statement given by
                    Judge John Law in his "Colonial History of 
                        Vincennes
                    ," published in 1858, and accepted by later writers, namely, that the weekly
                    paper first appeared on July 4, 1804. A copy of the first issue has never been located, but inasmuch
                    as the second issue has been found and is dated August 7, it has been conjectured that the first one
                    probably appeared on July 31.
            The publication has been carefully edited and will be very useful in the local libraries and of
                    especial interest to the general reader.
            M.
         
         
            "Contrasts among Indiana Counties in their Yield of Prominent Persons" is the title
                    of a paper read by Dr. Stephen S. Visher, of the Geology Department, Indiana University, at  the meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science held in December,
                    1928. Dr. Visher has made a careful, scientific, and fruitful study of the production of notables in
                    Indiana in relation to various factors. He has studied the distribution of the birthplaces of 912
                    Hoosiers who had the distinction of being listed in Who's Who in America
                    for 1926-1927. This distribution was analyzed from the standpoint of such conditions as geographic
                    regions and concentration of population.
            From this analysis, he concludes that the southeastern quarter of Indiana has been most favorable to
                    the production of prominent men and women. Dr. Visher offers two possible explanations for this.
                    This section of Indiana, he says, was settled more largely by people from 
                  Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York
               , and 
                        New England
                     than were other parts of the State. In addition this section was settled before the
                    northern half of the State. The latter, he thinks, was handicapped not only by the comparative
                    lateness of settlement but by the influx of people of southern ancestry from the southwestern
                    Indiana counties and the newly-arrived immigrants from 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Ireland
                    . But, as he points out, the southwestern counties are as old if not older than their
                    neighbors to the East. Evidently in that case the time element has smaller influence than the
                    character of the population. The reader is left to infer, therefore, that the lower productivity of
                    southwestern Indiana was largely due to the fact that people from 
                        Kentucky
                     and other southern states settled there. Elsewhere in the paper, the author states that
                    economic conditions correlate closely with the yield of notable persons. Probably there is also an
                    economic explanation for the low yield of the southwestern section. Unfortunately, Ds. Visher does
                    not offer such an explanation.
            The author has carefully presented figures to prove his statements concerning the distribution of
                    notables, but he fails to give evidence in support of his explanation for that distribution. The
                    study requires most careful and concentrated reading. This is partly due to the nature of the
                    subject and partly to the necessity of using many figures, which, in time, tend to hewilder the
                    reader. Several sentences are rather awkwardly constructed, making it difficult to grasp the
                    writer's meaning. The problem has been approached from many angles, and numerous
                    comparisons have been made, only  a few of which have been
                    indicated in this brief review. This gives the results of the investigation real value as well as
                    interest.
            MILDRED C. STOLER.
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            The best evidence ever presented in relation to the economic status of Thomas Lincoln, father of
                    Abraham Lincoln, was published in the Register of the 
                            Kentucky
                         State Historical Society in the issue of January, 1930. The documentary
                    evidence furnished comes from two of the original ledgers of the firm of Bleakley & 
                        Montgomery
                    , merchants of Elizabeth-town, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Only the pages of the ledgers which carried the account of Thomas Lincoln have been
                    copied and printed. The Lincoln account covers the period from July 30, 1804, to June 3, 1808, and
                    was contributed to the Register by O. M. Mather of Hodgenville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , who accompanied the original matter with a valuable foreword.
            The conclusions drawn by Mr. Mather, all of which seem sound and reasonable, are very interesting.
                    Thomas Lincoln, "had excellent credit with the firm of Bleakley & 
                        Montgomery
                    ", and "his purchases were not inconsiderable". So good was
                    his credit that he not only purchased "what he needed for himself, but was charged with
                    goodly sums for his friends and relatives". The assertion, "Thomas Lincoln paid
                    for all that was charged to him," indicates anything but shiftlessness. The account throws
                    light on his activities as a carpenter, for included among his purchases are tools used in his
                    trade. The purchase of a hat worth about $9.00 on January 5, 1805, is considered
                    "persuasive evidence that Thomas wore no slouch when he went a-wooing".
            Now and then this citizen, who was to have a place in history as the father of a great President,
                    bought "a pint of whiskey and a pound of tobacco", thus revealing that he was
                    "not wholly averse to the superfluities of life". At that, "his purchases
                    of whiskey were much less frequent than the average for the customers of Bleakley & 
                        Montgomery
                    ". This firm served as a sort of deposit bank for thrifty customers, and at
                    times, Thomas Lincoln had fair balances on his side of the account. When he married Miss Nancy
                    Hanks, he was not too poor to spend about $190.00, a sum "sufficient to provide
                    a respectable outfit."
            The final comment of Mr. Mather shsuid be pmdered by every writer who gives any consideration to
                    Thomas Lincoln:  "These old books [ledgers A and B of
                    Bleakley & 
                        Montgomery
                    , 1804-1806 and 1806-1808] throw a good sidelight on the early days of the father of
                    Abraham Lincoln. Perhaps as time passed he may have become less able to procure the necessaries and
                    comforts of life, but it would seem that during the period from 1804 to 1808 he was fairly
                    well-to-do."
            Azel W. Dorsey was one of the few teachers of Abraham Lincoln when the latter was a school-boy in
                    Indiana. He was the first of his teachers in Hoosier-land, 
                        Lincoln
                     being a boy of ten years when he attended Dorsey's school in 
                        Spencer County
                    . Mr. J. B. Oakleaf, who has been interested in Dorsey for several years, recently
                    contributed an article to the Journal of the 
                            Illinois
                         Historical Society (October, 1929) containing interesting information
                    concerning Dorsey's residence in 
                        Illinois
                     and his burial, place. He finds that having been a soldier in the War of 1812, before
                    settling in Indiana and therefore before becoming 
                        Lincoln
                    's teacher, Dorsey later migrated from Indiana to 
                        Illinois
                    . This was in 1828, two years before the family of Thomas Lincoln left Indiana.
            After becoming a citizen of 
                        Illinois
                    , Dorsey taught school in Schuyler County. The discovery of these facts resulted from an
                    inference, that, since Dorsey was in the War of 1812, he may have located in the 
                        Illinois
                     Military Tract. This was an area north of the mouth of the Illinois
                    River, which lay between that river and the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The tract was set aside by Congress for the benefit of veterans of the Revolutionary
                    War and the War of 1812. Dorsey entered two parcels of land in this Military Tract, but not until
                    October, 1840.
            Mr. Oakleaf searched persistently for the burial place of the old soldier, teacher and farmer.
                    Finally, he discovered amarble slab which had been erected to mark the grave in an old cemetery in
                    Huntsville Township, Schuyler County. The story of the last resting place of Dorsey follows in the
                    words of Mr. Oakleaf: 
                        In talking with people in and about 
                        Rushville, Illinois
                     , I
                            was convinced that Mr. Dorsey departed this life in Schuyler County. If so, where was he
                            buried "
                        The first above described land is in Huntsville Township, and the second is in Camden
                            Township, Huntsville being the southeast Township in the County, and Camden lies directly
                            east of it.
                        I was told of a cemetery situated in Huntsville Township, and concluded to make my search
                            there for the grave of Azel W. Dorsey.
                        
                        On the first of July, 1928, in company with Mr. J. S. Little and his sister, Virginia Little,
                            and Mrs. L. H. Byrns, of 
                                Rushville
                            , wife of the Recorder of Deeds of Schuyler County, who had lived in the village
                            of Huntsville, we drove to the King farm, which adjoins the village of Huntsville on the
                            south, and inquired of a young man whom we saw in the barnyard whether there was an old
                            cemetery near there. He pointed to a few evergreen trees growing about eighty rods south of
                            where we were, and told us that there was an old cemetery there.
                        We found that the information was correct. It was not fenced in. We counted sixty-two marble
                            slabs, some were quite small, others regulation marble slab size, which had all been broken
                            off at the base and were lying on the ground among the weeds and grass in an open pasture
                            for cattle and hogs.
                        In a hog wallow, we pried up quite a large slab and it proved to be the slab that originally
                            marked the grave of Azel W. Dorsey. It wasvery dirty and we cleaned it off and set it up and
                            Miss Little took a picture of it.
                        The inscription on the tombstone reads: 
                                AZEL W. DORSEY Died Sept. 13, 1858 Aged 73 Yrs., 10 Ms., 8 Ds.
                             which makes his date of birth November 5th, 1784.
                    
                
            The legal owner of historical documents, has all the rights and privileges in relation thereto that
                    pertain to any other private property. Few people care to lock up capital in this form of property.
                    Those who become collectors of, who find enjoyment in the search for old or rare manuscripts,
                    newspapers, periodicals, pamphlets, books, etc., who even develop a passion "to have and to
                    hold" acquired material of this kind, become a distinctive class in the midst of the crowd.
                    Those who have the desire, the will, and the means to become collectors are usually benefactors to
                    society, but they are not necessarily so. To purchase the sources of history merely to enjoy
                    possession, or in order to pass them on to heirs, is not especially commendable. To buy rare matter
                    and present it to an institution where there is no one to make proper use of it, or where it may be
                    poorly cared for is a deplorable policy. Few indeed are the private possessors of historical
                    collections who are pursuing the wisest course in regard to them. The proper place for all such
                    matter is in some university or college or state library. Such institutions may be used as
                    depositories, as they often are, and ownership of collections may still inhere in the private
                    citizen with proper recognition. At all events,  earnest and
                    competent students of history should not be barred from the use of historical documents however
                    cared for or by whomsoever owned. The all-important consideration is that collections shall be
                    acessible to those who have the willingness and the skill to use them intelligently.
            The ONE-HUNDRED DOLLAR prize fund is growing by leaps and bounds. The "leaps" are
                    three months apart and the "bounds" are in the offing. The third man to step
                    forward and offer to add his ten dollars, provided the entire fund is subscribed is Mr. Ross F.
                    Lockridge. Whether the Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, the Editor of the Magazine, and Mr. Lockridge shall be obliged to contribute or not will depend on the
                    action or non-action of others who give consideration to this cause. It is not believed that an
                    effort of this sort should be indefinitely prolonged. The deadline will be September 1, 1930. If the
                    whole sum shall not be pledged by that date, those who may have offered to contribute prior to that
                    time will be released from their obligations. The time is short, therefore, in the slow-moving world
                    in which we live. If you wish, dear readers, to join the three bold spirits named above, do not wait
                    until the gates are closed against you.
            It may be that the manner in which the proposed one-hundred dollars is to be used has been
                    misunderstood. The plan is that a prize of $50 shall be offered for the best paper
                    submitted on some phase of Indiana history. The paper may deal with an event or a movement, or it
                    may be a biographical sketch. The object is not to stimulate the writing of essays by school
                    children, but the production by mature and qualified persons of scholarly articles based on
                    contemporary evidence. Articles of a different nature will not receive consideration. The second
                    fifty dollars, if the plan comes to fruition, will be distributed equally between five persons, who,
                    in addition to the winner of the first prize, submit papers of sufficient value to be published. The
                    details of the contest will be furnished after the entire sum has been subscribed, if
                        ever.
            John James Audubon lived for some years at 
                  Henderson,
                            Kentucky
               . He was a merchant there for a
                    time and later owned a mill at that place. His business ventures were not a success, but it was
                    while he was a resident of 
                        Henderson
                    ,  that the popular naturalist roamed the forests
                    gathering the facts and making the drawings that brought him fame. The Audubon Society is engaged in
                    a worthy effort to provide the funds and erect at 
                        Henderson
                     an appropriate memorial to the noted man who once dwelt in that community.
            Anyone who properly preserves tools, furniture, houses, or other objects of historic value is to be
                    highly commended. To restore something which was associated with important personages or events of
                    the past is a more difficult task, but, if done with sufficient care and a tender conscience in
                    regard to the fidelity with which the decayed or demolished thing is reproduced, the undertaking
                    should be even more highly appreciated by society. Miss Julia LeClerc Knox of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     has written an account of the remodeling of an old home in 
                        Vevay
                    , and what she says is worthy of space here: 
                        Dr. and Mrs. R. M. Copeland have performed a distinctive service for 
                                Vevay
                             in remodeling the old Rous home on East Main Street into a Colonial mansion
                            which presents, in detail, a very true historic representation of a home of "ye
                            long ago". One steps across the colonial stoop, through the Colonial doorway into a
                            broad hall, graced by a wonderful old grandfather clock, and seems transported down the
                            corridor of time at least two hundred years. In the living and dining rooms on the right are
                            quaint old rockers, divans, gate-leg and drop-leaf tables picturesquely arranged. There are
                            polished brass and rare old china in the corner cupboard.
                        Up the curved old stairway is another broad hall with family portraits in oval frames and
                            intriguing old chests of drawers. Flanking this hall on both sides, are
                            great roomy bedrooms with tiny brass knockers on the doors. The great four posters have
                            lovely quilts. Everywhere are the waxed floors, rare old rugs and beautiful silver and
                            crystal chandeliers. The parlor bedroom is one of the most interesting rooms in the house,
                            where everything is in the most exquisite keeping, even down to the little coal-oil night
                            lamp with its cunningly convenient handle.
                        Mrs. Copeland, an enthusiastic D.A.R., has spent much time and thought in planning this
                            artistic home and in this she has been ably assisted by Dr. Copeland who, unlike many men,
                            understands and appreciates antique furniture. 
                                Vevay
                             is justly proud of this contribution to historic values, worth going some
                            distance to see.
                    
                
            There are undoubtedly a number of worthy men and women in Indiana with large incomes who desire to
                    aid in a substantial manner thoroughly deserving objects. Great sums have been given wisely and
                    unselfishly in the past by a number  of donors to enable certain
                    ends to be accomplished. The Editor ventures to make a suggestion here and now which he hopes may
                    somewhere, sometime fall on good soil and bear fruit. The State Library and the Library of Indiana
                    University have never been adequately supported. It has been much easier to obtain funds from the
                    people's Representatives to build library buildings (though that has been hard enough),
                    than to obtain the means with which to supply the shelves of such buildings. The same has been true
                    in regard to the libraries of the non-State institutions. Legislators, wealthy donors, and alumni
                    will provide money for buildings but not for books.
            The time has come, indeed it came years ago, for a great departure in this regard. Perhaps the
                    General Assembly may in the near future set aside large sums for the purpose of transforming the
                    University Library and the State Library into important centers of research, but one can find few
                    reasons for hopefulness. Will not some keen-minded citizen of great resources see the wisdom of
                    supplying funds to meet this crying need" It is very doubtful whether any man of wealth
                    with a half-million to spare can possibly use it to better purpose. Why should Indiana not have
                    libraries renowned for facilities of research" Someone should step forward and redeem the
                    State and do it soon.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of articles published in the Magazine may be had by any contributor who
                    may desire them. Application should be made as soon as the paper has been accepted for publication.
                    Dr. R. C. Buley, the Business Manager, will furnish prices on request, and place orders for such a
                    number ofcopies of any reprint as may be wanted.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired magazines or other
                    publications, will confer a great favor by writing to Dr. R. C. Buley, Business Manager of the Indiana Magazines of History.
            
               The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1898 to 1906, six volumes in all. Wanted, a complete file. Partial sets will be
                    considered.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during
                    1914. Wanted, a complete file, and also an extra copy of Number 1.
            
               The Open Road. Wanted copies of this monthly for: March, April, May, June, July,
                    August, September, and November, 1910; March, July, August, and September, 1911; April and May,
                    1912; July, 1913; January, 1914.
            
               Bulletins of the Indiana Historical Commission. Numbers 16 and 18. These contain
                    the Proceedings of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society for 1922 and 1923.
            
               Commencement Programs of Indiana University. Wanted to complete the file of the
                    University Library the following, but duplicates of those listed and of any programs prior to  1900 will be accepted and valued: Programs of 1st to 19th
                    commencements, 1828-1848; 22nd to 24th, 1851-1853; 26th to 28th, 1855-1857; 30th and 31st,
                    1859-1860; 33rd to 43rd, 1862-1872; 44th and 45th, 1873-1874; 47th, 1876; 50th and 51st, 1879-1880;
                    53rd, 1828; 55th and 56th, 1884-1885; 59th and 60th, 1887-1888; 62nd, 1891; 64th to 67th, 1893-1897.
                    Wanted any issues from 1905-1912, inclusive, and issues of the numbers for March, 1913, and March
                    1914. Number 3 of volume I (September, 1905), number 4 of volume II (December, 1906), number 2 of
                    volume IV (June, 1908), and number 1 of volume VI (March, 1910) are especially desired. There is
                    also a desire for more copies of the following issues: December, 1921; March, 1922; double-number,
                    June-September, 1925; March, 1926; December, 1926.
            Full sets of the Magazine can be supplied to libraries or individuals who may
                    desire to purchase only with great difficulty. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at
                    fifty-cents a copy or two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar
                    per copy, or four dollars per volume; a file from 1905-1913, when it can be supplied atall, must be
                    priced at a much higher figure.
         
         
            General Index
            A comprehensive General Index covering the first twenty-five volumes of the Indiana Magazine of History will be ready for the printer very near the time that
                    this issue reaches sub-scribers. This Index should prove very useful. Copies will
                    sell for one dollar each. It is expected that there will be orders from many
                    libraries. A number of such orders have been received, which will be filled at the earliest possible
                    moment, probably on or before April 30. Members of the Indiana Historical Society who wish copies of
                    the Index should send in their orders. The price to members will be one dollar per copy, the same as to libraries. It is hoped that many members will desire
                    to purchase copies. Send all orders direct to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
      
      
         
      
   
