
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 91, Issue 4, pages 361-471. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:91+issue:4+year:1995&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Fall and Rise of Thèrése Catin: A Portrait from Indiana's
                    French and Canadian History
            
                    Joseph L. Peyser*
               
                
            The unusual portrait drawn in this essay has as its dual setting the early eighteenth-century
                    French-colonial community of Montreal linked with sections of the pays d'en
                        haut (the upper country or Great Lakes basin) that are now part of the
                    American Midwest. Its three subjects, a commoner businesswoman, her merchant husband, and a renegade
                    nobleman, all virtually unremembered for 250 years, played an active and at times controversial role
                    in the French trade at the Miami post on the Maumee River (today's 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana), the Ouiatanon (Wea) post on the 
                        Wabash
                     (now West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana), and 
                        Detroit
                    . In their home city of Montreal these three individualists dared to thumb their noses
                    publicly at the Church, at French officialdom in Quebec and in 
                        Versailles
                    , and at the society in which they lived. In the face of all, they defiantly maintained
                    their nonconformity and remained the subjects of a major scandal on both sides of the Atlantic for
                    more than a decade. In the process, the political activities of two of them contributed in the 1720s
                    to the royal disfavor of the venerable governor-general of New 
                        France
                    .
            The central figure of this trio was Thèrése Catin, born in 1686 of humble
                    origin, the third of nine daughters and three sons of Henri Catin, a Montreal butcher, and his wife,
                    Jeanne Brossard.1
                    
                  
                     * Joseph L. Peyser is professor emeritus of French, Indiana
                            University, 
                                South Bend
                            . He is the author of Letters from New 
                                    France
                                : The Upper Country, 1686-1783 (1992) and coauthor with R. David
                            Edmunds of The Fox Wars: The Mesquakie Challenge to New 
                                    France
                                
                     (1993). His new book, Jacques Legardeur de Saint-Pierre:
                                Officer, Gentleman, Enterpreneur, is scheduled for publication in 1996. This
                            article is an expanded version of the 1990 Lundquist Faculty Fellow's Lecture
                            delivered at Indiana University, 
                                South Bend
                            , by the author.
                  
                     1 Renè Jettè, Dictionnaire
                                gènèalogique des familles du Quèbec des origines
                                á 1730 (Montreal, 1983), 208; Cyprien Tanguay, Dictionnaire
                                gènèalogique des familles canadiennes depuis la fondation de la
                                colonie jusqu'á nos jours (7 vols., Montrèal,
                            1871-1890), II, 580; Peter N. Moogk, "Lorimier de la Riviére, Guillaume
                            de," Dictionary of Canadian Biography (12 vols., 
                                Toronto
                            , 1966-1991), II, 446 (hereafter cited as DCB). In addition to being a family
                            name, catin is in French a pejorative term meaning "woman of ill
                            repute." However, the same term in Quebec French also means "doll" or
                            "figurine." Dictionnaire du fran¸ais
                                québécois: Description et histoire des régionalismes en
                                usage au Québec depuis l'époque de la Nouvelle-
                                    France
                                 jusqu'à nos jours incluant un aper¸u de leur
                                extension dans les provinces canadiennes limitrophes, volume de
                            présentation (Sainte-Foy, Québec, 1985), 48-50.
               
                     In 1686, Montreal was a small town of about 1,700 inhabitants,
                    having been founded only forty-four years earlier by the Société
                        de Notre-Dame de MontrÀal pour la conversion des sauvages. The title of
                    Montreal's conservative-Catholic founding society announced the sole mission of the
                    original settlement as religious, and in 1642 about fifty devout settlers from 
                        France
                     established Montreal as an isolated western outpost. The settlement was soon attacked
                    by the Iroquois Indians, with whom the French had been at war. Two months before Thérese
                    Catin's third birthday, in 1689, fifteen hundred Iroquois swooped into the settlement of
                    Lachine on Montreal Island, only eight miles from the town, killing one hundred settlers and
                    soldiers and burning the farms. It was not until 1701, when Thèrése was
                    fifteen, that the French and Iroquois finally signed a general peace treaty which was to endure.2
            
            Over the years, Montreal, much closer than Quebec to the western Indians, had become a major trading
                    center. Each spring Lachine, Montreal's port of embarkation, saw hundreds of huge canoes
                    laden with tons of trade goods head for the distant fortified trading posts and Indian villages in
                    the pays d'en haut. In Montreal, the need grew for merchants to supply
                    the voyageurs and military officers on their way west, providing business opportunities for
                    enterprising individuals. While the Church retained great influence in the colony, the nature of
                    Montreal had shifted away from the piety of the city's founders, particularly for the
                    untamed voyageurs. Nevertheless, for the stable, church-going portion of the population, including
                    the growing middle class and the upper class composed of nobles, government officials, military
                    officers, and seigneurs (estate owners), the Church and the bishop of Quebec's
                    pronouncements remained authoritative.
            In order to stimulate commerce, Louis XIV's edict of 1685 permitted Canadian nobles to
                    engage in business, a practice which was generally forbidden to nobles in 
                        France
                    . This edict not only permitted a number of impoverished Canadian nobles to improve
                    their financial standing, it also stimulated the upwardly mobile commoner to seek noble status. W.
                    J. Eccles has described the effect of this edict: 
                        The edict of 1685 allowed an ambitious roturier [commoner] to acquire capital and an adequate
                            income in the fur trade, then a seigneury, then commissions for his sons in the Troupes de
                            la Marine, who could then aspire to obtain lettres de noblesse for
                            valorous service.3
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  2 Louise Dechêne, Habitants et marchands de
                            Montrèal au XVIIe siécle (
                            Paris
                        , 1974), 24; Marcel Trudel, Initiation à la Nouvelle-
                                France
                            
                   (Montrèal, 1971), 56; W. J. Eccles, The Canadian
                            Frontier, 1534-1760 (rev. ed., Albuquerque, N.M., 1983), 39, 120.
               
                  3 W. J. Eccles, 
                     
                                France
                             in America (rev. ed., East Lansing, Mich., 1990), 120; Eccles, Canadian Frontier, 100-101.
            
            
            Another way to advance socially was, then as now, through marriage. John F. Bosher characterized such
                    marriages as follows: 
                        TO marry above the family station was a triumph, a step upward for the entire family. The new
                            link with a grander or more noble family was a source of benefit through the influence it
                            afforded. If the daughter of a successful merchant married a government official or his son,
                            the assumption was likely to be that henceforth they were allies in a common struggle for
                                advancement.4
                  
                    
            
            Not surprisingly, marriages were arranged by the families and were considered much like business
                    deals. Marriage contracts contained the particulars of property transfers, and the wife, often
                    "bringing considerable property to the marriage, tended to have greater material equality
                    with her husband than most wives in our time."5 Thus, despite her hopes
                    to marry well, the young Thèrése Catin knew that her limited dowry and low
                    social status were likely to result in her parents' marrying her off to someone of similar
                    standing. Her first employment was as chambermaid to the governor-general of New 
                        France
                     and his wife, the Marquis and Marquise de Vaudreuil. While this menial position brought
                    her physically close to the upper level of society and added to her dreams to be part of it, being a
                    chambermaid did little to enhance her opportunity.6 Her chances were further
                    diminished in the spring of 1707 when the twenty-year-old Thèrése gave birth
                    to an illegitimate son fathered by one Michel Montigny. The son, baptized Pierre-Michel Montigny,
                    apparently was not raised by Thèrése.7
            
            That same year, Thèrése's father was the victim of a series of
                    incidents which added to her distress. The fifty-four-year-old butcher was maliciously accused by an
                    "ill-tempered and wine-loving" captain of the Troupes de la Marine of having
                    maligned Governor-General Philippe de Rigaud de Vaudreuil. The officer then proceeded to beat the
                    butcher with the flat of his sword. Henri Catin filed suit in the royal court in Montreal against
                    the officer, and the latter was found guilty of both slander and battery, for which he was sentenced
                    on appeal to pay 200 livres in damages, for medicine and for the surgeon's report, plus
                    over 250 livres as a fine and for court costs.8 However, the minister of Marine,
                    the governor's superior in 
                  
                     4 John F. Bosher, "The Family in New 
                                France
                            ," in R. Douglas Francis and Donald B. Smith, eds., Readings in Canadian History; Vol. I, Pre-Confederation (
                                Toronto
                            , 1986), 107.
                  
                     5 Bosher, "The Family in New 
                                France
                            ," 107.
                  
                     6 Maurepas to Robert, May 30, 1724, National Archives of 
                                Canada
                            , Manuscript Group l, Archives nationales, Colonies (hereafter cited as AN
                            Col.), ser. B, vol. 47, transcript p. 148. Although Governor-General Vaudreuil's
                            regular residence was at 
                                Quebec
                            , he and his wife did reside in Montreal on occasion for more than a month at a
                            time. Joseph L. Peyser, Letters from New 
                                    France
                                : The Upper Country, 1686-1783 (
                                Urbana
                            , III., 1992), 112-13. It is not clear whether Thèrése
                            served as the Vaudreuils' chambermaid in both towns.
                  
                     7 Jetté, Dictionnaire
                                gènèalogique, 208, 826.
                  
                     8 The livre may have been worth from six to twelve 1990 U.S. dollars.
                            Its value today is virtually impossible to determine because of the many variables that
                            affected the livre, including period, region, inflation, supply and demand, nature of goods
                        
               
                    
                    
                        France
                    , later received word that the governor-general had "prevented collection of
                    the fine [and] protected his officers from the normal course of the law," charges that the
                    governor denied.9 The brutal beating of her father by an officer, the
                    former's successful recourse to the royal court in Montreal, and Governor-General 
                        Vau
                    -dreuil's interference with the carrying out of the sentence against this
                    officer provided lessons for Thèrése that she was not to forget.
            In 1710, some three years after this series of events, Thèrése Catin, now
                    twenty-three years of age, was married to a forty-six-year-old Montreal merchant and voyageur named
                    Simon Rèaume. Rèaume had achieved some success by virtue of his trading trips
                    into the pays d'en haut. His knowledge of the 
                        Ottawa
                     Indians, the major trading partners of the French, and of their language, had resulted
                    in his being asked by Governor Vaudreuil to serve as interpreter on those occasions when the
                    governor met with the 
                        Ottawa
                     chiefs in Montreal. Rèaume had, in addition, carried out 
                        Vau
                    -dreuil's orders on a number of his trips as a voyageur into the pays d'en haut. Thus, Thèrése Catin's marriage to
                    this grizzled merchant did provide her with certain advantages and opportunities: her new husband
                    was well established in the fur trade and as a merchant in Montreal; he knew and was respected by
                    the elderly governor-general; and, finally, the marriage helped Thèrése
                    overcome the stigma of being an unwed mother.10
            
            In October, 1711, Thèrése gave birth to the first of her four children from
                    this marriage: Charles-Auguste Rèaume, who was baptized in Montreal on October 24. The
                    infant's godfather, despite any reservations Thèrése may have had
                    about him, was the governor-general of New 
                        France
                     who knew both Thèrése and Simon. During the next seven years,
                    Thèrése was to give birth to three other children: two more sons and her only
                    daughter, who died at the age of two months in 1718.11 In addition to caring for
                    the children and the house, Thèrése assumed greater and greater
                    responsibilities for her husband's business, becoming his agent and handling all kinds of
                    transactions. These included renting out a room in their home and providing meals to officers when
                    Simon was away on his long canoe trips to the Great Lakes posts. Simon engaged
                    at various times in the fur trade among the Ottawas at 
                        Detroit
                    , at the Ouiatanon post, at the Miami post, and possibly at the St. Joseph
                        River post (now Niles, 
                        Michigan
                    ) and at Green Bay. These trips lasted as long as 
                  and services, and government economic policy. A further complication is the ever-changing
                            buying power of the modern currency to which the lime is being compared.
                  
                     9
                            Jugements et délibérations du Conseil souverain de la Nouvelle-
                                    France
                                
                      (7 vols., Québec, 1885-1891), V, 584-86; Moogk,
                            "Lorimier de la Riviére, Guillaume de," DCB, II, 446.
                  
                     10 Vaudreuil to the Council, Quebec, October 20, 1722, AN Col., ser.
                                C11 A, vol. 44, fol. 356.
                  
                     11 Tanguay, Dictionnaire
                                gènèalogique, VI, 524; Jetté, Dictionnaire
                            gènèalogique, 970.
               
                     several months, and Thèrése proved very
                    capable in running the business in Montreal during her husband's protracted absences. While
                    it was not unusual for the wife of a merchant or officer to act as her husband's agent
                    during the latter's extended absence from the lower colony, the scope of
                    Thèrése's business activities was unusual for a woman of her day.
                    Going far beyond the strictures imposed upon the women of her society, Thèrése
                    Catin was able, by virtue of the power of attorney granted her by her husband, to conduct lawfully
                    all kinds of business and legal affairs.12
            
            Not all of her business experience, however, was pleasant or successful. In 1719,
                    Thèrése sold a number of items of clothing and loaned an ounce of silver to a
                    young officer garrisoned in Montreal who was being transferred the following year to IIe Royale
                    (Cape Breton Island). The officer bore the same distinguished and noble name as his father, Baron
                    Alphonse de Tonty, a captain in the colonial regular troops and commander of 
                        Detroit
                    . Thèrése did not know at the time that the son was as impecunious
                    as the father. Alphonse fils failed to pay his debt to
                    Thèrése, and in 1720 she proceeded to have the royal court in Montreal serve
                    him with a summons just before he was to leave for his assignment on the Atlantic Coast.13
            
            In court, young Alphonse disputed most of the listed items, but on April 20 the judge ordered him to
                    pay a portion of the bill, pay for the ounce of silver and the court costs. The day after this
                    judgment, Thèrése had a second summons served on Tonty in order for him to
                    acknowledge his signature on a promissory note she alleged he had signed the previous year. Tonty
                    pleaded that the agreement was forged, and, indeed, the court did pronounce the document a forgery.
                    She appealed to the Superior Council of Quebec which on October 27, 1721, dismissed her appeal and
                    ordered her to pay the costs of the appeals.
            Thèrése was not present at the deliberations of the Superior Council, the
                    highest court in New 
                        France
                    , which refused her repeated requests for a copy of the decision and the proceedings.
                    She thereupon went over the head of the highest civil official governing in New 
                        France
                    , the intendant Michel Bégon. She wrote to Charles-Jean-Baptiste de Fleuriau,
                    Count de Morville, 
                        France
                    's minister and secretary of state, to order the intendant to provide her with
                    the desired information so that she might "formulate objections to the decree."
                    The results of her petition to the minister are unknown, but it is clear that by 1721
                    Thèrése Catin, the thirty-five-year-old wife and agent of Simon
                    Rèaume, had developed the 
                  
                     12
                            The Cadillac Papers (Collections of the 
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society, Vol. XXXIII; Lansing, Mich., 1904),
                            675-76; Council to Vaudreuil, 
                                Paris
                            , May 5, 1722, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 45, fols. 763-67; Vaudreuil to the Council,
                            Quebec, October 20, 1722, AN Col., ser. C11 A, vol. 44, fols. 356-63.
                  
                     13
                            Cadillac Papers, 675-76.
               
                     necessary self-assurance and willingness to fight for what she
                    wanted against the highest authorities in New 
                        France
                    . Although on occasion women took men to court in New 
                        France
                    , Thèrése stands out by virtue of the frequency of her suits and
                    her dogged persistence in appealing negative judgements. Her appeals and petitions against Tonty
                    were but the beginning of her open expression of defiance against the conventions of her society.14
            
            In the fall of 1720, the year in which Thérese first brought the young Alphonse de Tonty
                    to court, her voyageur-merchant husband was sent by the governor-general on an official mission
                    first to 
                        Detroit
                    , then to the Miami village, and finally to the newly created Ouiatanon post on the
                        Wabash River. Ensign Eustache Lambert Dumont commanded the six-canoe convoy
                    which included the canoe of a twenty-year-old cadet, Franc¸is-Marie Bissot de 
                        Vincennes
                    , who was acting as commander of the Ouiatanon post. Ensign Dumont and Simon had
                    received specific orders from the governor to fit out two canoes with the king's goods, to
                    be given as presents to the Miamis and the Ouiatanons if these tribes would agree to relocate
                    westward, farther away from the Iroquois and English trade rivals of the French. These two canoes
                    were manned by ten men in addition to Rèaume and Dumont. Accompanying the two canoes of
                    Réaume and Dumont and the third canoe of 
                        Vincennes
                     were three canoes which had received trade permits earlier from Governor Vaudreuil.15
            
            The convoy had been ordered to go to 
                        Detroit
                    , where Dumont and Rèaume were to report to the commander, Alphonse de Tonty,
                    whose son was being sued in court that same year by Rèaume's wife. All but the
                    two canoes carrying the presents were to stay there with their merchandise stored under
                    Tonty's supervision. Dumont and Rèaume were to proceed first to the Miami and
                    then to the Ouiatanons to try to convince them to move westward. They were also to be ready to
                    distribute the king's presents to them and to leave their personal trading goods with Tonty
                    at 
                        Detroit
                     while they were negotiating with the Indians. The governor's orders gave them
                    permission to take along four men from the other canoes in addition to their own ten. Finally, his
                    orders were that no personal merchandise should be traded until after the Indians had made a
                    decision on whether to relocate or not.16
            
            After taking on fresh food at 
                        Detroit
                    , however, Ensign Dumont decided to modify the governor's written orders. He
                    permitted all six canoes, rather than just the two authorized, to proceed to the Maumee
                        River, some fifty miles down the coast from 
                        Detroit
                    . Finding 
                  
                            14
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     15 Frances Krauskopf, ed., Ouiatanon Documents (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XVIII, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1955), 165-66; Eccles, Canadian Frontier, 203n.
                  
                     16 Krauskopf, Ouiatanon Documents, 166-68.
               
                    
                    
                  Map by John Hollingsworth.
               
                     the level of the river too low for the canoes to go sixty
                    leagues (more than one hundred miles) upstream to the Miami village, Dumont allowed his party to
                    winter at the mouth of the river. He later reported to the governor that he had not permitted his
                    convoy to trade with the Indians there, since that area was in the 
                        Detroit
                     trading territory. His report also stated that after he and Rèaume
                    determined that the Miamis refused to move their village, they had their men as well as those from
                    the other four canoes carry on their backs not only the king's presents but also the
                    private trade goods over the more than one hundred miles from the mouth of the river to the Miami
                    village. There they traded for furs.
            In the spring of 1721 they proceeded some one hundred miles southwest to the Ouiatanon post where
                    they traded the rest of their goods. By the beginning of July Simon and the heads of the other
                    canoes were back in Montreal, having, in the governor's words, "conducted their
                    business extremely well."17 (It is revealing to note how pleased
                    Vaudreuil was over the profits made, in light of the failure of his envoys to accomplish their
                    official objective of persuading the Indians to relocate.) Upon his return, Simon had been away from
                    home for the better part of a year. This trip was the first of ever more lengthy stays that the
                    frontier veteran was to make at the Ouiatanon post.
            In the spring of 1722, Vaudreuil, now seventy-nine years old and in his nineteenth year in office,
                    received a disturbing official dispatch from his superiors in the Council of Marine in 
                        Paris
                    . The council had received two serious complaints about the recent conduct of the
                    governor-general, the first from a group that the council said was "all the Montreal
                    merchants" who protested the governor's agents' open fur trading on two
                    of the governor's own properties west of Montreal. His agents at the closer of the two
                    posts were ideally situated to intercept the Montreal-bound, fur-laden Indians before they reached
                    the town's merchants to whom the Indians owned money and with whom they normally traded.
                    The council reminded Vaudreuil that such trading of merchandise outside the towns was against the
                    law and added, "If all these deeds were found to be true, His Majesty would not be pleased
                    with your conduct, and the Council wishes you to inform it truly about everything on this
                    topic." Vaudreuil, no doubt remembering that years earlier he had come perilously close to
                    being removed from office through the attacks of his political enemies, did not take this complaint
                        lightly.18
            
            
               
                  17 Council to Vaudreuil, Pans, May 5, 1722, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 45, fol.
                        763; Vaudreuil to the Council, Québec, October 20, 1722, AN Col., ser. C11 A, vol. 44, fols. 356-63. This and all other translations from
                        French-language sources quoted in this essay are by the author.
               
                  18 Council to Vaudreuil, Pans, May 5, 1722, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 45, fol.
                        763-67; Yves F. Zoltvany, "Rigaud de Vaudreuil, Philippe de," DCB, II, 569, 571. The more distant of Vaudreuil's two trading posts was
                        Temiscaming, about three hundred miles up the Ottawa River; the closer post
                        was the IIe aux Tourtes where the 
                            Ottawa
                         flows into the St. Lawrence River.
            
            
            The second complaint that the council had received was from "the wife of Simon
                    Rèaume, a Montreal merchant." In her complaint, Thèrése
                    claimed that in his 1720 trip with Ensign Dumont, her husband had to stop for food at 
                        Detroit
                     where Alphonse de Tonty forced him to carry his, Tonty's,
                    merchandise. She also alleged that Tonty required Simon to sign a statement agreeing not to trade in
                    the lower part of the Maumee River where, she stated, Vaudreuil had given Simon
                    permission to trade. She also complained that Tonty required Rèaume to have all those in
                    his six-canoe convoy carry the king's presents as well as their own merchandise on their
                    backs over the sixty leagues to the Miami village.
            Thèrése included in her petition for redress the claim that her husband had
                    forgotten at Tonty's post an eight-gallon keg of wine worth over eighty livres for which
                    Tonty never paid. She added that she had lodged complaints with the governor both about the wine and
                    Tonty's alleged trading restriction, and that the governor would not listen to them. Thus,
                    Thèrése Catin fired two long-distance salvos at her enemies the Tontys and the
                    governor. The council was sufficiently persuaded by her complaint to order the governor to
                    "verify all these facts" and to send his explanation. The council concluded its
                    instructions to the governor with its final accusation, that instead of sending two canoes to bring
                    about the relocation of the Miami village, Vaudreuil apparently had sent seventeen, and it ordered
                    him to give the reasons for exceeding the needed number.19
            
            In October, 1722, Vaudreuil responded at length to the accusations in the council's
                    dispatch. Most of his reply provided a detailed account of Dumont and Rèaume's
                    mission, answering all but one of Thèrése Catin's allegations and
                    effectively protecting Ensign Dumont and Rèaume as well as himself. As to the purportedly
                    missing keg of wine at Tonty's post, Vaudreuil stated that he had no knowledge about it,
                    but that he would write to Tonty so that if the event were as stated, Tonty would have to explain
                    the matter to Rèaume, and Vaudreuil would report the outcome to the
                    council. Vaudreuil then added: 
                        Neither Rèaume nor his wife have ever filed any charges with me …
                            although she impudently states in her petition to the Council that after they had been
                            brought to me, I would not hear anything about them, to which I will add that if
                            Rèaume had cause to file any charges with me, it was up to him and not his wife
                            to bring them to me, having every means he could hope to have for that purpose, since he was
                            in Montreal when he returned from the Miamis. I stayed there one more month afterward and
                            during that time he came to my office almost every day regarding the 
                                Ottawa
                             Indians who often used him as an interpreter. Furthermore, I have always shown
                                
                        
                           19 Council to Vaudreuil, 
                                        Paris
                                    , May 5, 1722, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 45, fols. 763-67.
                     
                             him affection because he is a good subject who has
                            served well on those occasions when he was employed. And because he has made no complaint
                            whatever to me during that time, one can conclude that he had no cause to do so.20
                  
                    
            
            Having thus rather effectively parried Thèrése Catin's accusations,
                    Vaudreuil then turned to the more serious matter of his allegedly siphoning of for his own personal
                    profit the fur trade that should have been going to the Montreal merchants. Here his tactics changed
                    from providing detailed responses to counterattacking the probity of his accusers. The last portion
                    of his reply to the council began boldly: "After having complied with what the Council
                    wanted of me concerning the events contained in the petition from Simon Rèaume's
                    wife, I shall have the honor of stating to it that it is extremely sad for me to be exposed in this
                    way to this kind of calumny because of the permissiveness with which the Council accepts unfounded
                    complaints from unscrupulous people."
            Vaudreuil then stated that the merchants' petition was 
                        the work of Monsieur Dauteuil de Monceaux who is imitating his father, Monsieur Dauteuil, the
                            former Attorney General of the Quebec [Superior] Council, and Madame Laforest, his aunt, my
                            cruelest enemies, who are looking for and inventing everything imaginable that could be used
                            to wrong me. It is he who drew up the petition that the Montreal merchants presented to me
                            last year concerning the Temiskaminque Post. The most important merchants refused to sign
                            it, but the others allowed themselves to be swayed by the assurances he gave them that his
                            father would act effectively for them in 
                                France
                            .21
                  
                    
            
            The wily old governor concluded his defense with a telling counterattack against Therese Catin:
                        
                        Réaume's wife is a wretch who acts only on the instructions of Monsieur
                            Dauteuil who lives at her house despite the feelings of her husband, who is too smitten with
                            his wife since everyone is convinced that she is having an illicit affair with Monsieur
                            Dauteuil. It has already been a long time since the Bishop has done everything he could both
                            personally and through the Montreal priests to constrain them to no longer live together,
                            but they have not been able to achieve this. The obstinacy of Monsieur Dauteuil in not being
                            willing to live anywhere but at that woman's house and the obstinacy of that woman
                            in wanting to keep him at her home despite the great scandal they are creating have brought
                            things to the point that for the last two years Monsieur the Bishop has had his head vicar
                            in Montreal forbid all priests and religious to receive them at communion or even at
                            confession. From all of this the Council can judge what people of this character are capable
                                of.22
                  
                    
            
            Vaudreuil's tactics apparently were successful only insofar as
                    Thèrése's divergent account of her husband's trip was
                    concerned. 
                  
                     20 Vaudreuil to the Council, Quebec, October 20, 1722, AN Col., ser.
                                C11 A, vol. 44, fols. 356-63, translated in Peyser, Letters from New 
                                    France
                                
                     , 112-13.
                  
                     21 Vaudreuil to the Council, Quebec, October 20, 1722, translated in
                            Peyser, Letters from New 
                                    France
                                
                     , 113-14. Teminscaming is about three hundred miles northwest of
                            Montreal, and Ile aux Tourtes is just west of Montreal. See Zoltvany, "Rigaud de
                            Vaudreuil, Philippe de,"DCB, II, 571, for a discussion of
                            Vaudreuil's need for money and his controversial fur-trading.
                  
                     22 Vaudreuil to the Council, Quebec, October 20, 1722, translated in
                            Peyser, Letters from New 
                                    France
                                
                     , 114.
               
                     As for the merchants' protests against the
                    governor's private fur trading (despite the latter's ad hominem
                    response), he was finally ordered to stop the trading at his two posts. Vaudreuil did yield
                    reluctantly on the post closest to Montreal, the Ile aux Tourtes, but the embattled official failed
                    to comply with his orders for the Temiscaming post until his death in 1725. The
                    governor-general's disclosure to the council of "the public adultery"
                    being committed by Simon Rèaume's wife with the son of a prominent noble family
                    led to the council's giving formal support to the bishop of Quebec by ordering the
                    intendant of New 
                        France
                     to suppress the scandal. But all the efforts of the council, the bishop, the head
                    vicars, the priests, the intendant, the minister, and the king failed to put an end to the
                    scandalous affair in Montreal.23
            
            This insolent young noble, the son of one of Governor Vaudreuil's "cruelest
                    enemies" and the constant companion of the lowborn Madame Rèaume, was, as the
                    governor had informed the council, the son of the former attorney general of the Superior Council of
                    Quebec whose own father had been attorney general before him. His full name was, as was common for
                    those of noble birth, lengthy: Charles-Fran¸ois-Marie Ruette d'Auteuil de
                    Monceaux. By his contemporaries he was known as Charles de Monceaux and Charles d'Auteuil.
                    Charles was born in 1690, four years after Thèrése Catin. As adolescents, he
                    and his younger brother, Pierre, were uncontrollable. In 1706 their repeated violent and disorderly
                    conduct on the Quebec fortifications went too far when they badly injured a soldier. Governor
                    Vaudreuil issued orders to the town major of Quebec to put the brothers in prison if they continued.
                    Three weeks after this order, the soldier that they had injured died, and the intendant attempted to
                    bring the two brothers before the royal court in Quebec. By this time, however, the boys'
                    father, Fran¸ois-Madeleine-Fortunè Ruette d'Auteuil de Monceaux, who
                    was the attorney general and a long-time enemy of Vaudreuil, had taken one of them to 
                        France
                     where he, the father, also in difficulties over a major conflict of interest, was to
                    meet with the minister in an effort to save his own career. He was unsuccessful and was dismissed
                    from office by Louis XIV in 1707. No longer in office but not devoid of influence, he took up
                    residence in 
                        Paris
                    . Despite his own dismissal, he was still able to avoid trial for Charles and his
                    brother, a service he was to render to his disreputable sons on other occasions.24
            
            
               
                  23 Zoltvany, "Rigaud de Vaudreuil, Philippe de," DCB, II, 571; Micheline d'Allaire, Montèe et
                            dèclin d'une famille noble: les Ruette d'Auteuil
                        (1617-1737) (Ville La Salle, P.Q., 1980), 173n, 273. This meticulously researched book by
                        Professor d'Allaire provides valuable information on both Charles Ruette
                        d'Auteuil and Thèrése Catin.
               
                  24 Marie Leland, "Ruette d'Auteuil de Monceaux,
                        Fran¸ois-Madeleine-Fortune," DCB, II, 585, 587; Zoltvany,
                        "Rigaud de Vaudreuil, Philippe de," DCB, II, 569; Tanguay,
                            Dictionnaire gènèalogique, III, 251-52;
                        d'Allaire, Montèe et dèclin d'une famille
                            noble, 273-74.
            
            
            In 
                        France
                    , and now in his twenties, Charles went into hiding for several years in the city of La
                    Rochelle where, in 1714, he was sentenced to two years in prison and assessed a heavy fine for
                    having clubbed an infantry captain. Once again he took flight and headed for 
                        Canada
                    , where the authorities had been ordered by the minister to imprison him for fleeing
                    from the authorities in La Rochelle and for having insulted the governor of Montreal. Charles
                    dropped out of sight in Louìsbourg (in today's 
                        Nova Scotia
                    ) and in New 
                        England
                     until his father was able to convince the minister in 1716 to rescind the orders to
                    imprison his son. For the next eight years, Charles engaged in highly suspicious large-scale
                    business transactions between New 
                        England
                     and 
                        Canada
                     that included the shipment of all kinds of goods from 
                        New York
                     and the alleged shipment of beaver pelts to that British colony. Despite the
                    accusations sent to the Court, Charles seems to have avoided any further formal charges, probably
                    due to the unflagging efforts of his father and to the reluctance of the intendant to take any
                    forceful action against him.25
            
            In 1724, when authorities on both sides of the Atlantic were attempting to suppress
                    Charles's scandalous liaison with Thèrése Catin, his father submitted
                    the following mèmoire to Intendant Michel Bègon which in
                    retrospect does not appear to be very convincing as an attempt to clear his son: 
                        Sieur Rèaume is a Montreal entrepreneur, a merchant and Voyageur. His wife keeps
                            this business going in the Town of Montreal with Retail sales and in Quebec by the purchases
                            that she makes there.
                        Sieur [Charles] Dauteuil de Monceaux, who was obliged to take Trips to new england and to
                            stay in Montreal, having had business dealings with Rèaume, stayed at his house
                            where he had his Meals, like several officers who did not like the Tavern, such as Messrs.
                            de Lusignan, de Langloiserie, Demuy and others. Jealousy and Self-interest on the part of
                            several Individuals secretly caused nasty Rumors to circulate about him and Mme.
                            Rèaume.
                        Sieur Rèaume who for several years has Come [back] from his Trips And spent a very
                            long time in The house has not taken these Rumors seriously although the Church people and
                            others have employed every means to warn him And arouse him to action, because he found out
                            that the rumors were calumnious and because he is sure of his wife's faithfulness.
                            That is so true that after Sieur Demonceaux was made a prisoner in Montreal by order of the
                            Governor general for a very long time, the aforesaid Rèaume went every day to
                            have lunch or dinner with him.
                        Sieur Demonceaux has just made the trip from france And is getting ready to go with Sieur
                            Dauteuil his Father to the isles madame and Isle Royale,26 thus what is
                            being imputed to him is without foundation.
                        Sieur [Fran¸ois Ruette] Dauteuil his Father who since last August 14 has been in
                            this Town [Quebec], having arrived from his Isles madame Settlement, entered into an
                            examination of the matter And found out that there was malice in what has 
                        
                           25 Minister to Robert, May 30, 1724, National Archives of 
                                        Canada
                                    , Manuscript Group 1, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 47, transcript p.149;
                                    d'Allaire, Montèe et dèclin
                                        d'une famille noble, 273-76.
                        
                           26 Iles Madame are at the entry of the Gulf of St. Lawrence;
                                    Isle Royale is now known as Cape Breton Island in 
                                        Nova Scotia
                                    .
                     
                             been set forth. It has appeared to him that the church
                            people and those whom they cause to act recklessly and too rashly—whom respect
                            prevents naming—are so badly calumniating Sieur Demonceaux and Mme.
                            Rèaume that they are risking disturbing the Union and Good Relations that exist
                            between Rèaume and his wife. That is what has up to now appeared to Sieur
                            Dauteuil. Quebec, October 18, 1724. Dauteuil.27
                  
                    
            
            The dual administration of New 
                        France
                    , shared by the governor-general and the intendant, placed all civil
                    matters—including justice—under the latter, Michel Bègon, thereby
                    preventing the infuriated Vaudreuil from taking any effective legal action against the defiant
                    threesome (although the former attorney general's statement above suggests that Vaudreuil
                    improperly imprisoned Charles for a period of time). The minister of Marine,
                    Jean-Frèdèric Phèlypeaux de Maurepas, after noting that
                    Rèaume "seemed to be giving permission to his wife to Lodge Sieur de monceaux in
                    her house," wrote that Bègon, who "does not wish to cause the slightest
                    distress to any habitant, has no Concern at all regarding the admonitions of
                    Monsieur de Vaudreuil." Bègon's own stated position on the matter was
                    that "Crimes must be prosecuted according to the Rules of Justice, and Judges can not
                    convict except when the crime is Confirmed by an inquiry nor initiate an inquiry when there is
                    neither a plaintiff nor a denunciator."28
            
            The bishop of Quebec, Jean-Baptiste La Croix de Chevriéres de Saint-Vallier, also found
                    himself frustrated by Thèrése Catin, her lover, and her complaisant husband.
                    The minister wrote that 
                        it has been Impossible for [the bishop] to bring effective remedies [to end this
                            licentiousness] however great was his care to act with those in Authority and with the
                            parties Concerned by threatening them with Ecclesiastic censures which however he has not
                            issued being certain that they cause more harm than good when they are scorned. He requests
                            the King's protection to remedy these disorders.29
                  
                    
            
            In attributing the Montreal businessmen's petition against him to Charles d'Auteuil
                    de Monceaux, Vaudreuil claimed that Charles was imitating his father and his aunt, Madame Laforest,
                    his "cruelest enemies." This indeed was true. Charles's father, the
                    former attorney general, had unscrupulously assisted his sister-in-law, Madame Laforest
                    (Charlotte-Fran¸oise de Juchereau de Saint-Denis), in her lawsuits, which led to his
                    dismissal from office. Her eleven-year-long battles in the law courts of 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        France
                     were for the purpose of retaining the Ile d'orlèans near Quebec and
                    the accompanying title of countess of Saint-Lawrence which she 
                  
                     27 Fran¸ois Ruette d'Auteuil to Bègon,
                            Quebec, October 18, 1724, National Archives of 
                                Canada
                            , Manuscript Group 1, AN Col., ser. C11 A, vol. 46,
                            transcript pp. 165-66.
                  
                     28 Maurepas to Robert, May 30, 1724, National Archives of 
                                Canada
                            , Manuscript Group 1, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 47, transcript pp. 149-50;
                            Bègon to Maurepas, Quebec, November 2, 1724, National Archives of 
                                Canada
                            , Manuscript Group 1, AN Col., ser. C11 A, vol. 46,
                            transcript p. 161.
                  
                     29 Maurepas to Robert, May 30, 1724, National Archives of 
                                Canada
                            , Manuscript Group 1, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 47, transcript p. 148.
               
                     had purchased and for which she had not finished paying. After
                    losing all her legal battles, she repeatedly appealed directly to Louis XIV who in 1713 firmly
                    rejected her petitions and forbade her to send any more appeals to him. In writing Vaudreuil this
                    information and advising him that Madame Laforest was returning to New 
                        France
                    , the minister described her as "a dangerous character."30
            
            As late as 1716, however, Madame Laforest had yet another appeal rejected in 
                        France
                     by the council on a different matter, this one her claim that the government had not
                    paid her first husband for supplies he had provided to the Mackinac post twenty-nine years earlier,
                    in 1687!31 One is reminded of Thèrése Catin's
                    stubborn legal appeals and recourse to the council in 
                        France
                    . Thèrése as a businesswoman began filing her own suits (and
                    continued to do so at least until well into the 1730s) soon after Madame Laforest's last
                    one ended. It may well be that the older woman served as a model for her nephew's
                    inamorata, both as litigant and businesswoman.
            The correspondence between Charles's father and Vaudreuil indicates that the younger
                    man's business and need of lodging in Montreal had brought him into contact with Simon
                    Rèaume and his wife and that he began living and taking his meals in their house as early
                    as 1720. Interestingly, in that year, both Charles de Monceaux and "Madame
                    Rhèaume" are listed as creditors of Charles's father (who was still in 
                        Paris
                    ) for merchandise received.32 It was also in 1720 that Simon took
                    his first known—and extended—trip to the Ouiatanon post.
            Fran¸ois-Marie Bissot de 
                        Vincennes
                     remained as commander of the Ouiatanon post until 1730. In 1726, however, perhaps
                    because of 
                        Vincennes
                    's absence, the new governor-general, Charles de La Boische de Beauharnois, had
                    sent Simon Rèaume to "lead and maintain the Ouyatanons," among whom he
                    remained until his death. In 1730, he led his four hundred Ouiatanon warriors and twenty-eight
                    Frenchmen into battle against the Fox Indians, and from 1731 to 1733, in his late sixties, Simon was
                    acting commander of the Ouiatanon post.33 In late 1733 or early 1734 the elderly
                    merchant, 
                  
                     30 Minister to Vaudreuil, 
                                Versailles
                            , July 4, 1713, AN Col., ser. B, vol. 35, fol. 320. In early 1702, this
                            "energetic and enterprising businesswoman," the widow of Captain
                            Fran¸ois Viennay-Pachot, purchased the Ile d'orlèans. Several
                            months later she married Captain Fran¸ois Dauphin de la Forest from whom she soon
                            obtained separate maintenance, continuing to be in business for herself. Judging from her
                            own frequent lawsuits and business ventures, Thèrése Catin seems in
                            significant ways to have followed in Charlotte-Fran¸oise Juchereau de
                            Saint-Denis's footsteps. See Antonio Drolet, "Juchereau de Saint-Denis,
                            Charlotte-Fran¸oise de," DCB, II, 305.
                  
                     31 Council of Marine minutes, September 14, 1716, Archives de la
                            Marine, ser. B1, vol. 9, fol. 371.
                  
                     32 d'Allaire, Montee et dèclin
                                d'une famille noble, 245.
                  
                     33 Joseph L. Peyser, "The Fate of the Fox Survivors: A Dark
                            Chapter in the History of the French in the Upper Country, 1726-1737," 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History, LXXIII (Winter, 1989-1990), 104, 106; Krauskopf,
                                Ouiatanon Documents, 145-46; Yves F. Zoltvany, "Bissot de
                            Vinsenne (
                                Vincennes
                            )," DCB, II, 66-67.
               
                     voyageur, interpreter, and occasional soldier died, leaving the
                    forty-seven-year-old Thèrése and three grown sons in Montreal.34
            
            What had caused this man willingly to give up his wife, his family, and his society in exchange for
                    life among the Ouiatanon Indians? Simon was undoubtedly affected by the powerful pull exerted by the
                    Indian way of life on many hundreds of the habitants of New 
                        France
                    .35 Early in the eighteenth century Simon had seen his younger
                    brother, Jean-Baptiste, drawn to the French and Indian posts of Lake Michigan
                    where the latter was an interpreter. Jean-Baptiste settled at Green Bay, where he lived with and
                    later married Symphorose Ouaouagoukoue.36 The two brothers, both widely traveled
                    in the pay d'en haut, continued to see each other on occasion both in
                    Montreal and in the upper country. By 1720, then in his early or mid-fifties and with the dèmon de midi possibly adding to the lure of the frontier, Simon
                    effectively turned his back on Thèrése and the lower colony and took up
                    residence at the flourishing French post among the Ouiatanon.
            After Simon's death, Thèrése Catin and Charles d'Auteuil de
                    Monceaux finally put a stop to the tongues that had been wagging for fourteen years by getting
                    married in Montreal on September 27, 1734. In addition to legitimizing their passion, the marriage
                    brought certain other advantages to each. To Charles, a noble forced to turn to commerce to enjoy
                    the lifestyle he desired, Thèrése, the widow of a merchant, brought business
                    contacts that she had made as Simon Rèaume's agent and de
                    facto partner. As Micheline d'Allaire has noted, Charles's noble family had
                    become oriented toward commerce in only two generations. Charles's values had changed
                    entirely from those of the noble class in the metropole to the more realistic outlook of the less
                    clearly structured Canadian society of the eighteenth century. Although Charles had, in effect,
                    metamorphosed into a commoner, he brought to Thèrése his noble name and the
                    social position attached to it, as well as his hereditary rights to a portion of his land-rich but
                    debt-ridden father's estate at such time as his father died:37
            
            The concomitant rise of the lowborn Thèrése Catin and decline of the noble
                    Charles d'Auteuil de Monceaux provide a striking case history of what Marcel Trudel
                    identified as the "social confusion" reigning in New 
                        France
                    . Trudel wrote:
            
               
                  34
                        Inventaire des Biens de La Succession du feu Sieur Simon Rèaume,
                        Montreal, March 29, 1734, Archives nationales du Quèbec, Protonotaire
                        Montrèal, Microfilm M 6620/1072, Greffe de Chévremont, Image 506.
               
                  35 See Eccles, Canadian Frontier, 89-97, on the great
                        impact and attraction of Indian culture on the French colonists.
               
                  36 George Pare and M. M. Quaife, eds., "The Saint Joseph
                        Baptismal Register," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XIII (September, 1926), 212; Collections of the State Historical
                            Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            
                   (30 vols., 
                     Madison,
                                Wisc.
                  , 1854-1931), XVIII, 473-74.
               
                  37 Tanguay, Dictionnaire
                        gènèalogique, III, 252; d'Allaire, Montèe et dèclin d'une famille noble, 288-89.
            
            
            
                    If one considers that [the noble class] was nearly without privileges, that its social duties
                        were everyone's and that it was as needy as one could be at any level of society, the
                        noble class merged with the common run of people. Unlike in Europe, humble folk were not
                        condemned to remain humble folk; they easily rose to the upper levels. They went from one level
                        to another according to their dynamism or their success: a particular trader all at once could
                        become an influential merchant; at the end of the French regime, most of the seigneurs were
                        descended from the common people ….38
               
                
            Louise Dechêne has demonstrated, however, that most of the upward mobility in the colony
                    had occurred by 1715 and that "the ways to rise were limited." Noting that
                    "a good marriage furthered the rise of the family," Dechêne observed
                    that "one of the ways to help poor gentlemen was to encourage profitable
                    marriages." She illustrated the practice with examples of officers whose marriages to
                    lower-class women (some of whom were widows) brought them substantial dowries. Although
                    "social mobility was pronounced in New 
                        France
                    , she added that "it was practiced especially from the top
                        downward."39
            
            The commercial side and benefits of the union of Thèrése and Charles are
                    illustrated by the energetic husband's signing, from 1734—the year in which he
                    married Thèrese—to 1738, seventy-one contracts as an engagé
                    (employee of the fur trade) to bring goods and furs to the 
                        Detroit
                     post. Operating on a much higher level in the trade, Thèrése
                    became the first woman to make a business investment in what is now the state of Indiana on June 11,
                    1735. On that date the commandant of Fort Miami, Philippe Damours de La Morandière,
                    signed an agreement with "Thérè se Catin, wife of Charles Ruette
                    Dauteuil de Monceaux by which the aforesaid Sieur Damour promised and obligated himself to give up
                    the Miami post to Mme. Dauteuil." In 1736, Charles signed a contract to carry goods there,
                    and he wintered at Fort Miami in 1738-1739, undoubtedly taking care to oversee his wife's
                        business.40
            
            d'Allaire saw the business relationship between Thérèse and her second
                    husband as typical of the social exchanges occurring in a changing Canadian society. She wrote:
                        
                        This type of familial departure from the requirements of the nobility, in comparison with his
                            father and grandfather, which Charles de Monceaux announced early, is as it were confirmed
                            by the marriage he contracted with Thérèse Catin in 1734. A social
                            exchange was taking place then, one which was, moreover, common in the colony:
                            Thérèse Catin, through her late husband, Reaume, provided her husband
                            with entry into the trade bourgeoisie of Montreal, while she rejoiced over marrying into the
                                
                        
                           38 Trudel, Initiation à la Nouvelle-
                                            France
                                        
                           , 157-58.
                        
                           39 Dechêne, Habitants et
                                    marchands, 402-13, passim.
                        
                        
                           40 d'Allaire, Montèe et
                                    dèclin d'une famille noble, 278; Antoine Roy, Inventaire des Greffes des Notaires du Régime fran¸ais
                                        (27 vols., Quèbec, 19481, XII, 36. The contract between Damours
                                    de la Morandière and Therese Catin that conveys the post to her is of
                                    considerable interest for the light it throws on the French fur trade in the upper
                                    country and on the degree of autonomy exercised by Catin in a major transaction. The
                                    author's translation of this contract is appended to this article.
                     
                             nobility. We have here another example of this colonial
                            society formed by permeable groups which gave it its hybrid character. Charles Ruette
                            d'Auteuil was seeking to join with the individuals who would permit him to trade.
                            He found them, and it was effective, at least for several years.41
                  
                    
            
            In 1746 by means of a complicated settlement among the heirs of Charles's father, who had
                    died in 1737, Charles and Thérèse acquired most of the former attorney
                    general's seigneury of La Pocatière. As owners of this choice domain, they
                    became members of the landed gentry of 
                        Canada
                    . Charles died in 1755, and in 1763, the year in which 
                        England
                     confirmed its possession of French 
                        Canada
                     after the Seven Years War, Thérèse Catin, now seventy-seven years
                    of age, gave all of her possessions to her first-born son, Charles-Auguste Réaume. In
                    1767, Charles-Auguste purchased the remainder of La Pocatière, thereby becoming the sole
                    owner of the seigneury of the former Sovereign Council's attorney general. Thus, in the
                    space of her own lifetime, this contentious butcher's daughter and onetime chambermaid
                    personified the merging of three levels of her evolving North American colonial society.42
            
            While Thérèse Catin's history is centered in the lower colony of New 
                        France
                    , it is also linked to today's Great Lakes states through
                    her business ventures, her civil suits involving upper-country post commanders, her two
                    husbands' trade and military activities, and the close relatives and descendants of her
                    first husband.43 Her story, in addition to its inherent interest as the portrait
                    of a defiant, non-conforming, and successful woman, illuminates not only the evolution of Canadian
                    society but also the French and Canadian history of the American Great Lakes.
            
               
                  41 d'Allaire, Montèe et déclin
                            d'une famille noble, 278.
               
                  42 Tanguay, Dictionnaìre
                            généalogique, 11, 580, 111, 252; d'Allaire, Montée
                            et déclin d'une famille noble, 180n, 254-55, 255n. Tanguay stated that
                            Thérèse's eldest son was named Charles-Augustin, not
                            Charles-Auguste, and, erroneously, that he drowned in 1751. Tanguay, Dictionnaire
                            généalogique, VI, 524, 526.
               
                  43 The author expresses his appreciation to Floyd R. Réaume of
                        Saginaw, 
                            Michigan
                        , for sharing his extensive genealogical files on the Réaume family in
                        the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        .
            
            
            APPENDIX
            Contract for the Miami Post between M. Damour and Mme Dauteuil1
            
            There appeared before the resident and undersigned Royal Notaries in the Jurisdiction of Montreal
                    Philippe Damour, Esquire, sieur de la Morandière, Lieutenant of the Troops of this
                    Country, Commandant of the Miami Post residing in Beaupré near Quebec, presently in this
                    Town [Montreal] Staying in Sieur du Manthet's house Situated on 
                        St. Paul
                     Street on the one hand, And Madame Thérèse Catin, Wife of Charles
                    Ruette Dauteuil, Esquire, Sieur de Monceaux, residing in this aforesaid Town on the Above named 
                        St. Paul
                     Street both in her own name and holding an authorized power of attorney from the
                    aforesaid Sieur Dauteuil drawn up before the undersigned notary on the twenty Second of last
                    February of which there is an original on file, on the other hand, Who came to the following
                    agreements.
            To wit, that the aforesaid Sieur Damour promised and bound himself by these presents to give up to
                    the Aforesaid Madame Dauteuil the Miami post for as long as it pleases Monsieur the Governor general
                    to keep him there, with all fur-trade and Trading Rights in the entire Extent of the aforesaid Post
                    to the exclusion of any other person without authorization by the aforesaid Sieur Damour to carry on
                    any fur trading or Trade directly or Indirectly And under any pretext that there might be or could
                    be at the aforesaid post.
            And the aforesaid Madame Dauteuil in the aforesaid name promised and bound herself to send the
                    aforesaid Sieur Damour up [to the post] at her expense and also to bring him down from the aforesaid
                    post at her expense when he is relieved; to feed him at the aforesaid post in the same way as her
                    partner the aforesaid Sieur Dauteuil in his absence; to Provide him Each year at the aforesaid Post
                    with a half Barrique of good wine, and three Barils of Brandy
                    each containing fifteen pots
               2; to send up to Him this year
                    only one Baril of wine and one Baril of brandy which he is to
                    purchase himself at his expense, in addition to the Tobacco, powder and lead for his Hunting and his
                    use.
            
               
                  1
                        Conventions pour le Poste Des miamis Entre M. Damour et Mme Dauteuil, June 11,
                        1735, Montreal, Archives nationales du Québec, Protonotaire Montréal,
                        Greffe de Chèvremont, Microfilm M 620/1072.
               
                  2 A barrique was a barrel containing from fifty-five to
                        ninety gallons; a baril was a keg containing up to twenty gallons; a pot was approximately one-half a gallon. Marcel Trudel, Initiation à la Nouvelle-
                                France
                            
                   (Montréal, 1971), 238.
            
            
            The presents which will be given to the Indians of the aforesaid Post by the aforesaid Sieur Dauteuil
                    and partners, if they [the Indians] respond by [giving in return] another present, as they [the
                    original presents] are to be provided by the aforesaid partnership, the aforesaid Sieur Damour will
                    give up the aforesaid presents [from the Indians] to them [the partners].
            The Aforesaid Madame Dauteuil promises and binds herself to pay Each year to the aforesaid Sieur
                    Damour or other person holding His authorized power of attorney The sum of two thousand Livres of
                    which The first payment will be made in the month of September of Next year, under pain of Etc., and
                    thus it will continue for such Time as the aforesaid Sieur Damour remains at the aforesaid Post. The
                    aforesaid Madame Dauteuil will pay Each year for the lease of the aforesaid Post upon the request of
                    the aforesaid Monsieur the Governor general the amount of twelve Hundred Livres. She will pay
                    furthermore The Interpreter, the blacksmith, and all the other expenses to be made at the aforesaid
                    Post so that each year the aforesaid Sieur Damour will be able to receive the above two thousand
                    Livres free and clear of any fees and expenses by virtue of the foregoing relinquishment executed by
                    Him.
            Thus has it been Agreed and conceded between the parties, and for the Execution of these presents
                    They have designated their residence and abode identified above at which Locations Etc.
                    notwithstanding Etc. Promising Etc. obligating Etc. Relinquishing Etc. Drawn up and accepted at the
                    aforesaid Montreal in the Study of Gaudron de Chèvremont One of the aforesaid Notaries in
                    the Year one thousand seven Hundred Thirty-Five on June eleventh in the forenoon and signed after
                    the reading done in accordance with The ordinance.
            [Signed:] Damour de lamorandiere Catin dauteuil
            Gaudron de Chevremont
            Chaumond
         
         
         
            Deshee Farm: A New Deal Experiment With Cooperative Farming
            
                    J. Rebecca Thompson
                    *
                
            On January 25, 1938, fifteen men and one woman met in a room in downtown 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. That gathering, the first official meeting of the board of directors of
                    Deshee Farm, Inc., began an historic undertaking. Deshee was a large-scale farm, run cooperatively
                    by its shareholders (known as members) and incorporated under the laws of the state of Indiana
                    governing cooperative associations. The directors' first order of business was to elect
                    oficers and to empower those officers to apply for a federal loan that would provide the capital to
                    equip and operate the farm. The officers were also empowered to negotiate a lease with the 
                        United States
                     government for 2,771 acres of farmland, twelve miles south of 
                        Vincennes
                    , which had been purchased recently by the federal government.
            The group was an unlikely one to begin such a joint enterprise. Its members were, for the most part,
                    either unacquainted with or only recently introduced to each other. None had substantive experience
                    with farm management, much less corporate management. None of them was economically secure. Many of
                    them were young —in their early twenties—with new families. Yet the members of
                    this disparate group had committed themselves—wittingly or unwittingly—to
                    participate together in an experiment in cooperative agricultural production. Few, if any, thought
                    they were making history.
            The founding of Deshee Farm was no accident; rather, it was the result of deliberate planning by the
                    federal government. The extraordinary conditions that existed during the Great Depression created a
                    climate in which, for a brief time, the body politic and the political leadership were both willing
                    to risk change and to experiment with new economic and social ideas. The country looked to the 
                  
                     * J. Rebecca Thompson is associate librarian at the State
                            University of 
                                New York
                            , Potsdam. She wishes to thank the former members of Deshee Farm cited below for
                            sharing their time and memories and Professors Ralph D. Gray, Indiana University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and Janet L. Shidler, State University of 
                                New York
                            , Potsdam, for commenting on earlier drafts. Research for this article was
                            partially supported by a travel stipend from the 
                                New York
                             State/United University Professions PDQWL Committee.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, XCI (December, 1995). © 1995, Trustees of Indiana
                            University
               
                     federal government to initiate and direct the change. Deshee
                    Farm was conceived, planned, and implemented by the government in the context of federal
                    experimentation with new economic and social strategies. But the political climate in the nation was
                    volatile, and the window of opportunity for experimentation was only briefly open. Ironically, it
                    would be the same federal government, responding to political forces, that would later thwart the
                    success of Deshee Farm.
            American farmers had been experiencing hard times since the end of World War I, long before the
                    nation as a whole plunged into the Great Depression. Overexpansion in farm production during the war
                    years, contraction of foreign markets at the end of the war, developments in agricultural research,
                    and technological advances in mechanization all contributed to an oversupply of farm products at the
                    end of the war. By the early 1920s, agriculture was in decline even though business was booming.
            Throughout the 1920s, with politicians, agricultural organizations, and farmers unable to agree on a
                    course of action, attempts to improve the economic conditions of agriculture through government
                    intervention failed. By 1932 the American farmer faced an unprecedented debt crisis brought about by
                    low prices for agricultural goods that reduced farm earnings, high prices for manufactured products
                    that increased farm operating expenses, and tax and interest burdens out of proportion to farm
                        income.1
            
            When Franklin D. Roosevelt entered the presidential race in 1932 in the midst of the
                    country's worst depression, he recognized the nation's need for new approaches to
                    solving economic problems and his own need for a more sophisticated understanding of those problems.
                    Consequently, instead of looking to the business community for direction, Roosevelt sought the
                    counsel of intellectuals who were academic social scientists to enlarge the president's
                    understanding of economic theory and advise him on economic policy. Foremost among this
                    "brain trust" were Adolf A. Berle, Rexford G. Tugwell, and Raymond Moley. These
                    men encouraged Roosevelt to embrace government leadership in national planning as the key to both
                    economic health for the nation and economic democracy for its people. They were convinced that the
                    competitive self-interest that 
                  
                     1 Theodore Saloutos, The American Farmer and the New
                            Deal (Ames, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1982), provides a detailed account of the circumstances that produced the
                            agricultural crisis of the 1920s and 1930s. Gilbert C. Fite, George N. Peek and
                                the Fight for Farm Parity (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1954), and Peter T. Harstad and Bonnie Lindemann, Gilbert
                                N. Haugen: Norwegian-American Farm Politician (
                                Iowa
                             City, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1992), describe the struggle to get the McNary-Haugen bill passed. See also
                            Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., The Crisis of the Old Order, 1919-2933 (
                                Boston
                            , 1957), 105-110; Chester C. Davis, "The Development of Agricultural
                            Policy Since the End of the World War," in Farmers in a Changing
                                World: The Yearbook of Agriculture, 1940 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1940); and John D. Hicks, Republican Ascendancy,
                            2921-2933 (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 16-22, 193-214.
               
                     dominated the American economy was responsible for the
                    country's economic problems. The key to solving these problems, they argued, was for
                    government to intervene in a systematic manner. Cooperative approaches needed to be developed to
                    balance the interests of business, labor, agriculture, and the consumer.2
            
            Initial agricultural planning efforts of the Roosevelt administration were embodied in the
                    Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 that created the Agricultural Adjustment Administration (AAA)
                    within the Department of Agriculture (USDA). By 1934, however, it had become apparent to many that
                    AAA programs distributed benefits to farm workers inequitably. The middle—class
                    farmer-the farmer who prospered in normal economic times—benefitted from the
                    AAA's production control program. But poorer farmers-sharecroppers, tenants, and farm
                    laborers—did not. Many, particularly African-American sharecroppers in the South, became
                    more economically distressed as a result of AAA programs.3 Consequently, the
                    more experimental social scientists of the Roosevelt administration, initially led by Tugwell,
                    proposed a new set of programs specifically aimed at alleviating rural poverty. These social
                    scientists saw rural poverty as being closely tied to misuse of agricultural land. Under the newly
                    created Resettlement Administration (RA), the plan to address the problem of rural poverty had four
                    major objectives: (1) to purchase agricultural land not suitable for cultivation; (2) to find
                    suitable use for that land; (3) to move the people living on submarginal farms to land suitable for
                    farming; and (4) to provide the resettled families with loans and the supervision necessary to
                    enable them to make a reasonable living.4
            
            Planners had already decided that economic strategies alone were inadequate. Resettlement and
                    rehabilitation became key elements in the programs designed to alleviate rural poverty.
                    Resettlement—the physical moving of families from land unsuitable for farming to more
                    suitable land—was intended to place the rural poor in a physical setting in which
                    economic success was possible. Rehabilitation—the individual supervision of each client
                    family's farm and home management operations—was intended to develop skills in
                    such areas as sound farming methods, budgeting, food preservation, and home health. Together,
                    resettlement and rehabilitation 
                  
                     2 See Rexford G. Tugwell, The Democratic Roosevelt: A
                                Biography of Franklin D. Roosevelt (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1957), 212-21, 328-29, 414-15, and Tugwell, In Search of
                                Roosevelt (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1972), ch. 4. See also Paul K. Conkin, Tomorrow a New
                                World: The New Deal Community Program (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1959), 84-86; Bernard Sternsher, Rexford Tugwell and the
                                New Deal (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1964), ch. 27; and Schlesinger, The Crisis of the Old
                            Order, 398-402.
                  
                     3 Richard S. Kirkendall, Social Scientists and Farm
                                Politics in the Age of Roosevelt (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1966), 97-109; Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., The Corning of
                                the New Deal (
                                Boston
                            , 1958), 77-83; William E. Leuchtenburg, Franklin D. Roosevelt and
                                the New Deal (
                                New York
                            , 19631, 137-41.
                  
                     4 Kirkendall, Social Scientists and Farm Politics,
                            109.
               
                     would provide the means for the rural poor to achieve an
                    adequate standard of living.
            In 1935 the concept of large-scale cooperative farms as one solution to rural poverty was proposed
                    within the Resettlement Administration, under Tugwell's leadership.5
                    Plans for the development of Deshee Farm were underway by 1936. Cooperation was not a new concept in
                    American agriculture; farmers had a long tradition of both informal and formal cooperative
                    arrangements ranging from small local threshing circles to large regional purchasing and marketing
                    cooperatives that had developed in the 1920s as one response to economic stress. Cooperative
                    production, however, was an anathema to mainstream established agriculture.6 Its
                    practice had never in any significant way extended beyond religious or utopian communal societies.
                    Thus the institution of large-scale cooperative agricultural production under the sponsorship of the
                    federal government was indeed experimental.
            In 1937 Tugwell, generally acknowledged as the leading intellectual force behind the plan to develop
                    cooperative farms, resigned from the federal government.7 The RA was eliminated,
                    and its programs, including the cooperative farm projects, were transferred to the new Farm Security
                    Administration (FSA), an agency established within the USDA. Therefore, it was the FSA that
                    implemented the cooperative farm program.
            Deshee Farm, Inc., one of seventeen cooperative farms conceived and implemented throughout the
                        nation,8 was just one component 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 113.
                  
                     6 Claud L. Scroggs, "Historical Highlights," in Agricultural Cooperation: Selected Readings, ed. Martin A. Abrahamsen and
                            Claud L. Scroggs (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1957), 3-56. The readings in this book span the three decades from the 1920s
                            to the 1950s. This writer could find only one reference to cooperative agricultural
                            production, in "The Economic Principles of Cooperation," by Edwin G.
                            Nourse, "the dean of economic writers in the field of agricultural
                            cooperation" (p. 57). Nourse, writing in 1922, stated, "Agricultural
                            cooperation, of course does not mean cooperative farming. The latter is a sickly growth
                            found only in the hot-house atmosphere of a few fanatic colonies" (p. 179).
                  
                     7 Kirkendall, Social Scientists and Farm Politics,
                            129. Although there is no direct evidence that the cooperative farm projects were the idea
                            of Tugwell, they were planned in the agency that he headed and are consistent with his
                            collectivist views of national planning. (See Tugwell, The Democratic Roosevelt, 218-21.)
                            Tug-well's interest in the concept of cooperative agricultural production can also
                            be seen in several undated memoranda on agricultural planning which he most likely wrote
                            between 1934 and 1936. Rexford G. Tugwell Papers, Box 70 (Franklin D. Roosevelt Library,
                            Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            ) and in correspondence with Walter E. Packard regarding a book on which they
                            were collaborating, found in Box 18, Tugwell Papers. The book appears never to have been
                            published.
                  
                     8 This number is based on a listing of associations established for
                            the purposes of cooperative farming to whom the government leased land. U.S. House Committee
                            on Appropriations, Department of Agriculture Appropriation Bill, 1943, Hearings
                                before the Subcommittee on Agriculture Department, 77th Cong., 2d sess. (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1942), 253. Different numbers and different lists have been used in
                            various contexts, with obvious inaccuracies. For instance, Conkin, in Tomorrow
                                a New World, fails to include 
                                Wabash
                             Farms in his list of New Deal communities (pp. 332-37). Other numbers are
                            derived from different definitions. This writer has seen lists
               
                     of a larger rural rehabilitation project, 
                        Wabash
                     Farms, which served a six-county area of south central Indiana.9
                    The farm was located in 
                        Knox County
                    , approximately twelve miles south of 
                        Vincennes
                    , in Johnson and Vincennes townships where a wedge of flood plain lies between the
                        White and Wabash rivers. This wedge is bisected by the
                        Deshee River from which the farm's name was taken. The farm
                    consisted of six scattered tracts of land with eight building sites and encompassed approximately
                    2,771 acres. The two largest tracts, called Forty-one (because it fronted on U.S. Highway 41) and
                    Beal, were sites for numerous dwellings and farm buildings. There were additional houses on the
                    smaller parcels. Altogether, Deshee Farm had forty-two dwellings, nine barns, three machine sheds,
                    and ten poultry houses. A distance of about seven miles separated the Forty-one and Beal sites with
                    the other tracts located between. The Beal tract ran right up to the foot of the Breevoort levee.10
            
            Several dwellings—the homes of the former owners—existed on this land at the
                    time the government acquired it, but there were not enough to accommodate the large number of
                    families planned for the farm. The existing houses were renovated, and thirty new dwellings were
                    constructed using two different floor plans, one with 
                  that omit Deshee Farm and possibly other similar cooperative farms, ostensibly because
                            Deshee was part of the larger project, 
                                Wabash
                             Farms, which was classified as a scattered farms project. Another list counts
                            Bois d'Arc and Hillview farms in 
                                Missouri
                             as one cooperative because they were both part of the larger project, Osage
                            Farms. The Farm Security Administration (FSA) itself was not consistent in its use of
                            numbers, whether intentionally for political reasons or unintentionally because of the
                            difficulty of consolidating administrative detail. In one report, two different numbers of
                            cooperative farms were used; thirteen (p. 20) and fifteen (p. 1006). U.S. House Select
                            Committee of the House Committee on Agriculture to Investigate the Activities of the Farm
                            Security Administration, Farm Security Administration: Hearings, 78th
                            Cong., 1st sess. (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1944).
                  
                     9 Three different programs for low-income families were part of the
                            larger project: a scattered farms program, in which the government leased individual farms
                            to agricultural workers with an option to buy; a subsistence community, in which the
                            government provided housing and garden plot to rural families in a community setting with
                            the expectation that part-time employment in local industry would supplement subsistence
                            farming; and Deshee Farm, a large-scale farm organized as a cooperative association, legally
                            incorporated, and operated by its members. Regional staff of the RA proposed these projects
                            in 1935, land acquisition started in 1936, construction in 1937, and settlement by
                            low-income families in 1938. By the time Deshee Farm began actual operations, the RA had
                            been subsumed into the FSA within the Department of Agriculture. "
                                Wabash
                             Farms Annual Report for 1938," Marion C. Neprud Papers (State
                            Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin,
                                    Madison
                     ).
                  
                     10 The site called Forty-one had a large dairy barn, other farm
                            buildings, and fifteen houses, each with garden plot and root storage. One house was used as
                            an office and one as a community building. Beal had twelve houses (one of which served as a
                            community building), a dairy barn, and several other outbuildings. Other sites were
                            identified as Sand Ridge, the Goat Farm, Center, and Stout Farm. No single source provides a
                            complete description of the sites. This description comes from the following:
                            "Summary" and "Numerical List," Neprud Papers; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, August 8, 1937; National Archives, Records of and Relating to Cooperative
                            Associations, Farmers Home Administration, RG 96, "Deshee Farm,
                            Inc.—Buildings," Boxes 217-25 (hereafter cited as RG 96, National
                            Archives).
               
                    
                    
                  HOUSING UNITS AT DESHEE Farm
                  
                  Reproduced from the Collections of the Library of Congress, Negative No
                            LC-USF.34-60971-D.
                three bedrooms and one with two. Every house had running water and electricity but no
                    indoor toilet. Each dwelling also had a root cellar and a garden plot. These homes were considered
                    modest by the standards of the day, yet they provided a great improvement in housing conditions for
                    most of the families who joined the farm.11
            
            Deshee Farm was a diversified operation, encompassing livestock as well as crop production. Livestock
                    enterprises produced and marketed dairy products, poultry, eggs, hogs, and beef. Feed crops such as
                    alfalfa, wheat, soybeans, and corn were raised primarily to support the farm's own
                    livestock, and specialty crops, such as tomatoes, potatoes, and melons, were sold locally to canning
                    companies and truck farmers. The farm's members also received some produce as a benefit of
                    membership and could purchase other farm products at a price below the local market value.
            Two distinct viewpoints guided the Roosevelt administration's cooperative farming projects
                    and shaped program goals. One, emphasizing cooperation, was theoretical, long-term, and directed at
                    changing values. The other, focused on training, was practical, short term, and directed at changing
                    behavior. The cooperative approach stemmed from concern that American individualism had 
                  
                     11 "Summary," Neprud Papers.
               
                     become a destructive force in American life. What was needed to
                    solve the social problems of the 1930s was a cooperative spirit and new social constructs.12 Cooperative farming was one such social construct. As large-scale farming, it
                    could take advantage of modern technology, yet, since worker and management were one and the same,
                    it represented economic democracy at work. Participants in the cooperative farm projects would
                    experience firsthand the value of cooperation, would incorporate this value more fully into their
                    daily lives, and would pass it on to their children.
            The practical, training approach viewed the cooperative farming projects as a way to accomplish
                    several specific objectives: (1) to utilize tracts of land that, because of topography or soil
                    conditions or both, were not suitable for family-sized farms; (2) to improve the agricultural and
                    managerial skills of farm workers to enable them to be successful farmers by providing training and
                    supervision; and (3) to increase the number of clients that could be served by the FSA for the same
                        investment.13
            
            These two different viewpoints were reflected in the organizational design, management plan, and
                    educational and social program for Deshee Farm. Initially, the approaches complemented each other,
                    both contributing elements important to the farm's progress. But as national political
                    forces changed, these goals became incompatible, thwarting the long-term success of the farm.
            The cooperative approach is evident in the establishment of Deshee Farm as a membership organization
                    in which the members or their representatives were the decision makers. The terms of membership in
                    the corporation were spelled out in several documents: the "By-laws of Deshee Farm,
                    Inc.," the "Articles of Incorporation of Deshee Farm, Inc.," and the
                    "Work and Occupancy Agreement." Briefly summarized, the terms were these: each
                    member had an equal interest in the property rights of the farm except with respect to net earnings,
                    which were to be distributed in proportion to hours worked; each member had one vote that could not
                    be exercised by proxy; each member had to work solely for Deshee Farm; each member had to accept the
                    work assignments prescribed by the farm manager; members' compensation was determined by
                    the board of directors; each member received the right to use a house for "residential and
                    homestead purposes" subject to certain conditions (e.g., maintenance, lawful use, and right
                    of inspection); 
                  
                     12 An example of the philosophical viewpoint can be found in Henry A.
                            Wallace's New Frontiers (
                                New York
                            , 1934) in which the author writes, "The keynote of the new frontier is
                            cooperation …. The mechanism of progress of the new frontier is social invention
                            …" (p. 274).
                  
                     13 Joseph W. Eaton, Exploring Tomorrow's
                                Agriculture (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 80-84. A researcher for the Rural Resettlement Institute, Eaton visited
                            several FSA cooperative farms and interviewed farm members as well as FSA personnel involved
                            in cooperative farm activities at the local, regional, and national levels.
               
                     failure to cooperate in the interests of the association could
                    lead to expulsion following due process as prescribed in the by-laws. Only male heads of household
                    qualified as farm members, wives having no legal standing in the association. A woman's
                    participation and influence were, therefore, dependent upon her relationship with her husband, a
                    situation certainly in keeping with mores of the time.14 The membership
                    exercised control of the association through quarterly membership meetings. Additional meetings
                    could be called by the board of directors or by petition. Forty percent of the membership
                    constituted a quorum.
            The "property and business of the association" was managed by the board of
                    directors, a majority of whom were required to be association members. The members elected the board
                    of directors to three-year terms, and the directors elected from among themselves a president and a
                    vice-president. The board also elected a secretary and a treasurer from the membership. Throughout
                    the life of the farm, the offices of secretary and treasurer were combined to be the responsibility
                    of one person.
            The farm's organizational design as stipulated in the by-laws and articles of incorporation
                    was, for the most part, formulated without reference to the association's relationship to
                    the federal government. It seems clear, therefore, that government planners fully intended Deshee
                    Farm to function in the long term as a private corporation with no affiliation whatsoever with the
                    government, operating using principles of cooperation as a worker-owned large-scale farm.15
            
            The practical, training approach is reflected in the lease and loan agreements with the federal
                    government that provided the association with both land and capital with which to begin farm
                    operations. Under the terms of these agreements, the FSA had considerable control over the
                    management and operations of the farm, since a member of the FSA staff was to serve on the board of
                    directors for as long as the FSA deemed necessary. The 
                        Wabash
                     Farms community manager, the highest ranking local FSA official, represented the
                    government on the board for most of the life of the farm. 
                  
                     14 "Articles of Incorporation of Deshee Farm, Inc.,"
                            articles 7 and 10; "By-laws of Deshee Farm, Inc.," articles 4 and 5;
                            "Work and Occupancy Agreement," attached to minutes, board of directors
                            meeting, September 22, 1938, RG 96, National Archives.
                  
                     15 There were exceptions. Article IV, sections 1 and 4, of the by-laws
                            made membership approval and expulsion specifically subject to the recommendation of the
                            administrator of FSA, or succeeding executive officer, as well as subject to the
                            recommendation of the board. Article VII, section 5, less specifically stated that if the
                            association borrowed or otherwise received any property from the government, it would be
                            required to follow operating and accounting methods as prescribed by the government.
                            Presumably, these documents were written with the intent that ultimately Deshee Farm, Inc.,
                            would be operating independently of the government. Whether or not the specific references
                            to the FSA were intentional cannot really be determined from the evidence.
               
                    
                    
                  PLANTING CANTALOUPES ON DESHEE FARM, MAY, 1940
                  Reproduced from the Collections of the Library of Congress, Negative No.
                            LC-USF-34-60999-D.
                The FSA hired and paid an accountant to set up and manage accounting procedures for the
                    farm. The agency also required the farm to prepare and submit a farm plan, including line-item
                    budget amounts for each year of operation, subject to the approval not only of the regional office
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     but also of the FSA administrator in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. Deviations from or adjustments to the plan were also subject to FSA approval.16 In these ways the FSA retained ultimate authority over the organization as
                    long as the association owed debts to the government or until the FSA chose to relinquish its
                    control. This mechanism served to protect the government's investment by providing the FSA
                    with a period of time in which to prepare members, through training and supervision, to assume full
                    responsibility for the corporation.
            The management structure as planned and implemented for Deshee Farm also reflected a blend of both
                    theoretical and practical philosophies. Farm planning was carried out by committees representing the
                    various farm operations (e.g., dairy, beef cattle, field crops, etc.). Committees were appointed
                    each autumn by the board of directors to plan for the next season's production, and their
                    chairs were usually members of the board. The committee structure 
                  
                     16 Eaton, Exploring Tomorrow's Agriculture,
                            110-11.
               
                     served the long-term goal of having farm members work
                    cooperatively on farm planning and provided a mechanism to accomplish practical short-term training
                    objectives since the committees met occasionally with local extension agents and outside experts,
                    usually from Purdue University, who assisted them in making their plans. As established in the
                    association's by-laws, daily farm operations were under the authority of a
                    "general manager," most frequently referred to as the "farm
                    manager." This person, under the supervision of the board of directors, had responsibility
                    for hiring and firing farm workers (who were members) and prescribing the nature and terms of their
                    work, keeping accurate records of the farm's business operations, disbursing funds, and
                    reporting to the board. As part of its loan agreement with Deshee Farm, the FSA hired and paid the
                    farm manager. In addition, this outside expert served a training function and ensured that viable
                    farm plans were developed and implemented. Eventually, the board of directors was to have control of
                    day-to-day operations through its supervision of the farm manager. In the short term, however, the
                    manager served to safeguard the government's investment.
            Deshee Farm was more than just a farming operation. Educational and social programs were also key
                    components of the plan for its development. In this arena, too, the cooperative and training
                    approaches, at least initially, functioned side-by-side. Implicit in the FSA's concept of
                    rural rehabilitation was the notion that FSA clients would develop new ideas, modes of behavior, and
                    practical skills through an educational process. To achieve educational goals, all FSA projects, not
                    just the cooperative farms, were staffed with farm specialists, who provided technical training and
                    advice related to farm management, and with home economists, who provided training and advice
                    related to home management. FSA clients developed farm and home plans under the supervision of these
                    experts. But the organizational structure of the cooperative farm provided an additional context for
                    educational and social opportunities. Board of directors meetings, membership meetings, and
                    enterprise committee meetings provided the forums for speakers, movies, and discussions. Topics
                    covered were both practical, such as specific farming or home management techniques, and more
                    theoretical, such as the history of cooperatives. There was also an effort to develop management and
                    leadership skills among farm members, anticipating the time when the farm would be operating
                    independently of the federal government. In addition, the farm sent a group of members each year to
                    the annual farm institutes at Purdue University in West 
                        Lafayette
                    . Much of the evidence of the success of educational programs at Deshee Farm comes
                    through FSA staff reports, but there is little independent verification. These reports do suggest
                    that Deshee Farm members both desired and took advantage of educational opportunities. In addition
                    to the educational  opportunities directly available through
                    Deshee Farm and FSA resources, for example, several farm members evidently signed up for
                    correspondence courses for training in a particular skill and expressed specific interest in
                    receiving Extension Service bulletins. One former farm member declared that Deshee Farm was
                    "a wonderful place." When asked why it was wonderful, he replied without
                    hesitation, "Because it was so educational."17 The FSA
                    encouraged social activities designed to promote a sense of community at Deshee Farm. Two buildings
                    were used as community centers. Early in the life of the farm, membership meetings began and ended
                    with social activities. The FSA initiated the formation of a committee of members to plan those
                    activities.
            Plans for the New Deal cooperative farms were set in motion at a time when the seventy of social and
                    economic problems permitted new strategies. As the national economy slowly improved, the tolerance
                    for experimentation decreased. Initially, the cooperative farm projects were not affected.
                    Ultimately, however, the altered political climate proved significant. New farm legislation and
                    growing congressional dissatisfaction with New Deal agricultural programs reflected this change of
                    mood.
            The FSA was established in the Jones-Bankhead Farm Tenant Act of 1937. The primary purpose of the act
                    and therefore the primary mission of the FSA was to enable farm tenants to purchase farmland with
                    low-cost government loans. Tugwell, though no longer working for the federal government, argued in a
                    strongly worded article in the 
                        New York
                     Times that farm tenancy was not the problem and that this strategy would not address
                    the real issue, rural poverty. A well-placed, skilled tenant farmer was much better off than a
                    heavily mortgaged, unskilled landowner trying to farm marginal or submarginal land. With brutal
                    honesty, he asserted, 
                        If we have no intention of attacking poverty at its source, if we only intend to make owners
                            out of a few of the better tenants, the administration ought not to have credit for helping
                            really forgotten families; only for doing what democracies have usually
                            done—helped those who needed help less because those who needed it more did not
                            count politically.18
                  
                    
            
            The Farm Tenant Act also directed the FSA to assume responsibility for community programs, including
                    cooperative farms, that had been administered by the now defunct RA. The legislation stated,
                    however, that funds could be used only to manage or liquidate these projects. By implication, no new
                    projects were authorized. 
                  
                     17 See Joanna Rebecca Thompson, "Against the Grain: Deshee
                            Farm, a New Deal Experiment with National Planning" (M.A. Thesis, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1992), ch. IV for a detailed accounting of the educational and social program
                            at Deshee Farm; Lloyd Witsman, interview with author, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, April, 1991.
                  
                     18 Rexford G. Tugwell, "Behind the Farm Problem,"
                                
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times Magazine, January 10, 1937, p. 4.
               
                     Thus, even before a single family had moved to Deshee Farm, the
                    political support for the cooperative farm projects had eroded. Given the early stages of
                    development of these cooperative projects in 1937, liquidation would have been possible prior to the
                    actual beginning of farming operations. The decision to manage the projects rather than liquidate
                    them suggests that despite decreasing support outside the agency, there were still those within who
                    supported the cooperative farm concept.
            By 1942, the FSA was under public attack both from mainstream agricultural organizations,
                    particularly the American Farm Bureau Federation, and from legislators. Hearings on the Department
                    of Agriculture's appropriation bill for 1943 reflect the conflict between the FSA and
                    Congress over the agency's emphasis on management rather than liquidation of cooperative
                    farming and community-oriented projects. Members of the Appropriations Committee sought, through
                    their questioning, to lead FSA personnel to testify that they would liquidate cooperative projects.
                    In response, FSA personnel sought to appease their questioners but also to justify the
                    projects' continuation. Several congressmen asked FSA staff directly to compare the FSA
                    cooperative farms with Soviet collectivization. While the tone of the questioning remained civil,
                    the legislators made it clear that they strongly disapproved of the cooperative projects.19
            
            In 1943, the House Committee on Agriculture appointed a special committee to investigate the FSA. The
                    committee focused on the FSA's failure to liquidate cooperative farm projects and community
                    projects with long-term leases. The hearings took on qualities of a witch hunt. In questioning FSA
                    Administrator C. B. Baldwin, for example, John W. Flannagan (D-Va.) asserted that "there
                    seem[ed] to be a lot of un-American ideas cropping up" in the agency and that someone had
                    "hatched up this un-American scheme" to lease land to cooperative farm projects.
                    He directed Baldwin to "check back and let me know who is responsible for that
                    idea" since he did not think "a man who entertains such an idea had any business
                    being on the payroll of the 
                        United States
                     government." Congressman Ross Rizley (R-Okla.) repeatedly pressured Baldwin to
                    testify that he had subscribed to a land-leasing program. Baldwin finally concurred with Rizley that
                    if he had ever agreed to "such a philosophy," he had "now erased it from
                    [his] mind."20
            
            Repeated clashes with Congress and bitter political rivalries within the Department of Agriculture
                    took their toll on the FSA. 
                  
                     19 US. House Committee on Appropriations, Agriculture
                                Appropriations Bill, 1943, Hearings, 239-68.
                  
                     20 U.S. House Select Committee of the House Committee on Agriculture
                            to Investigate the Activities of the Farm Security Administration, Farm
                                Security Administration: Hearings, 22-24.
               
                    
                    
                  WORKING IN A GARDEN AT DESHEE FARM
                  
                  Reproduced from the Collections of the Library of Congress, Negative No.
                            LC-USF-33-2786-M3.
                More and more staff members, particularly those who had been committed to the original
                    goals of combating rural poverty through rural rehabilitation, left the agency. The agency
                    leadership became more conservative. By 1945, the FSA bore little resemblance, in goals, programs,
                    or staff, to its progenitor, the RA.21
            
            The conflicts and changes in 
                        Washington
                     were reflected in developments at Deshee Farm. One important consequence was a shifting
                    of management priorities for the cooperative. The once complementary cooperative and practical,
                    training viewpoints that had shaped the farm's management structure began to clash in the
                    day-to-day decisions made at the farm. Conflict occurred especially in the areas of membership,
                    management, and social programs.
            The concept of membership lies at the heart of any cooperative endeavor. Common values and commitment
                    among members contribute significantly to the success of cooperative ventures. Certainly the
                    cooperative farm planners recognized this. Like all FSA programs, eligibility for membership in
                    Deshee Farm was based on 
                  
                     21 Sidney Baldwin, Poverty and Politics: The Rise and
                                Decline of the Farm Security Administration (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1968), 400-402. Dean Albertson devotes much of his book,
                            Roosevelt's Farmer: Claude R. Wickard in the New Deal (
                                New York
                            , 1961), to a detailed description of the internal struggles in the Department
                            of Agriculture in the late 1930s and early 1940s.
               
                     criteria established by the FSA in the context of the
                    agency's enabling legislation. Any individual seeking assistance through an FSA program had
                    to meet a basic low-income requirement. Some objective criteria such as age, number of children,
                    health, and farming experience were also considered in the selection of Deshee Farm members. In
                    addition, the FSA looked for more subjectively defined qualities such as "character,
                    attitude, initiative, and ability to work as one of a group," "cooperative wife,
                    harmonious family life," and "cooperative ability." Deshee Farm
                    planners' concern about the special demands of a cooperative work environment makes clear
                    their recognition that membership selection might play a critical role in the farm's
                        success.22
            
            Membership turnover was a significant problem for Deshee Farm. There were at least eighty-six
                    different farm members over the course of seven years. One quarter of that number probably stayed
                    less than a year; fourteen stayed between one and two years; another twenty-two stayed between two
                    and three years. Approximately two-thirds of the members, then, stayed for less than half of the
                    farm's operational life. Only two members stayed from beginning to end. Seven members
                    stayed approximately five years or more. As a consequence, members of the board of directors seldom
                    completed a full term of office, and the roster of directors might change several times in the
                    course of a year. Also, there was little year-to-year continuity in the membership of the enterprise
                    committees, which planned and managed the various farm operations, a situation that must not have
                    been advantageous to farm management. Lack of committee continuity can be directly tied to overall
                    membership turnover.23 In addition, the turnover had an impact both on
                    operations and on overall farm management. It certainly limited the ability of the farm manager to
                    train, supervise, plan for, and allocate work assignments. The continual change in membership may
                    also have fostered divisions among the farm's population by maintaining a pool from which
                    opposing factions could be formed. Finally, membership turnover may have contributed to the fact
                    that a core of recognized leaders never really emerged from among the people who lived and worked at
                    Deshee Farm.
            A volatile membership is not surprising in an organization such as Deshee Farm. For most new members
                    the reason for joining had nothing to do with a commitment to cooperative agricultural production;
                    rather, they joined because it was the best available opportunity for them to get ahead during hard
                    economic times. If better 
                  
                     22 "Summary," Neprud Papers; Henrik F. Infield, Cooperative Communities at Work (
                                New York
                            , 1945), 67-68; P. G. Beck to R. C. Smith, [undated, 1937?], RG 96, National
                            Archives.
                  
                     23 For a detailed analysis of personnel and membership changes, see
                            Thompson, "Against the Grain," 139-47.
               
                     opportunities arose, many members were ready to take them.
                    Higher wages in war industry jobs attracted a number away.24
            
            The nature and consequences of membership turnover at Deshee Farm illuminate both the increasing
                    conflict between the cooperative and training approaches and the changing political climate that
                    exacerbated that conflict. Even the number of members proved to be a source of conflict between the
                    board and the FSA. The farm was constructed to house forty-one families, although it never reached
                    that number. Beginning with twenty-two families, the farm housed thirty-eight by the end of 1941. A
                    year later the membership had dropped to twenty-eight families.25 The members
                    themselves were reluctant to increase their number if there was not need for more labor. The FSA,
                    however, wanted to maximize the occupancy of the farm to justify its investment. To that end, the
                    FSA pressured the board of directors to bring the farm's membership to full capacity. At
                    first, the board appears to have resisted the pressure. On January 6, 1941, the board resolved that
                    "no more families shall be permitted to move onto the farm until such time as additional
                    labor is required for the operation of the farm." And in February, Community Manager Theo
                    Myers explained to the regional director that the "Board decided not to approve any more
                    families until those already approved were moved on the farm and given work." The directors
                    also decided that the farm budget should be completed and that "it was more important to
                    spend all available time completing this budget rather than approving more families."26 By March, however, the board was actively engaged in interviewing applicants.
                    Over the course of the year, eighteen of forty-three board meetings were spent, solely or in part,
                    in interviewing and deciding upon prospective members. Twenty-seven new members were accepted, and
                    there were nineteen withdrawals during the year. At their meeting on June 2, 1941, the board voiced
                    a concern that "more GOOD men" were needed.27
            
            
               
                  24 Eaton, Exploring Tomorrow's Agriculture,
                        168. One of the founding members confirmed that this was his reason for joining Deshee Farm. He
                        also indicated that his youth and lack of experience did not allow him fully to appreciate the
                        real opportunity of Deshee Farm. (Fred Raney, interview with author, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, August 5, 1994). There was at least one exception to this attitude.
                        Shirley Sturgeon, a member from December, 1940, until September, 1943, reported that he joined
                        the farm for the opportunity to "work for ourselves" at a time when he and his
                        wife had no capital to invest in an individual farm. He seemed to have understood the long-term
                        implications of the cooperative farming model and the potential it offered. When it became clear
                        that the government was going to sell the land, however, he took an opportunity to farm
                        elsewhere. (Shirley Sturgeon, interview with author, Patoka, Indiana, August 5, 1994).
               
                  25 Minutes, membership meetings, January 27, 1942, January 30, 1943, RG
                        96, National Archives.
               
                  26 Theo E. Myers to P. G. Beck, Feb. 14, 1941, ibid.;
                        minutes, board of directors meetings, January 6, February 5, 1941, ibid.;
                        William Lightfoot to Theo E. Myers, January 23, 1941, ibid.; William S.
                        Grawcock to M. E. Hays, February 13, 1941, ibid.
               
               
                  27 Minutes, board of directors meeting, June 2, 1941, ibid.
               
            
            
            Membership stability and commitment to community were important for the long-term success of a
                    cooperative farm. Individuals, it was hoped, would pursue the goals of the group and see their own
                    interests as synonymous with the interests of the community as a whole. Within the framework of the
                    practical, training approach, however, farm membership turnover was considered irrelevant. Clients
                    who left the farm for better jobs in or out of agriculture were as much a measure of project success
                    as those who stayed. In fact, greater turnover provided an opportunity to rehabilitate more clients.
                    The practical model ultimately prevailed.
            In 1941 the FSA required the board of directors of Deshee Farm to develop a farm plan that would
                    accommodate the maximum number of members. The board, on the other hand, preferred to develop a farm
                    plan and then determine if more men were needed to implement it. In building community commitment
                    and group cohesion, the change of a single person in a group has the potential to change the entire
                    group dynamic. Admission of new members to Deshee Farm would have had a significant impact on the
                    group and would have potentially stressed the process of building a sense of community. Deshee Farm
                    began experiencing severe morale problems during 1941, a year in which at least twenty-six new
                    members arrived at the farm, compared with approximately five newcomers the previous year. Farm
                    members expressed bitterness that the FSA had pressured them to accept new members at times when
                    there was not adequate work for the current residents. Since the amount of any individual's
                    annual dividend depended upon hours worked, if there was not enough work to go around, members were
                    likely to be resentful of newcomers who might reduce each person's share of end-of-year
                        profits.28 In pressing the membership issue, the FSA's short-term
                    objective of maximizing the use of resources at Deshee Farm by providing access to more clients
                    clearly superseded the long-term goal of developing a stable membership committed to the future
                    success of the cooperative farm.
            Management was another arena in which the cooperative and training viewpoints at Deshee Farm began to
                    clash. The FSA was ambiguous about its role within the farm's management structure, despite
                    the fact that it had created that structure. On one hand, the government agency sought to promote
                    the farm's ability to manage its affairs independently and had advocated a "hands
                    off" policy whenever possible. On the other hand, the FSA interfered at the most minute
                    level, such as prescribing the manner in which pages should be numbered in meeting minutes.29 The minutes of the board 
                  
                     28 Minutes, board of directors meeting, January 6, 1941, ibid.; William Lightfoot to Theo E. Myers, January 23, 1941, ibid.; William S. Grawcock to M. E. Hays, February 13, 1941, ibid.;
                            Theo E. Myers to P. G. Beck, February 14, 1941, ibid.; L. L. Wilson to A.
                            B. Van Huss [undated, July, 1943?], ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 William Lightfoot to Theo E. Myers, January 17, 1941, ibid.; William Light-foot to Victor H. Davison, December 19, 1941, March 23, 25,
                            1942, ibid.
                  
               
                     reflect an increasing sense of power on the part of the
                    farm's directors as they acquired greater confidence and sought to make more autonomous
                    decisions. In theory, such a development was precisely what the FSA hoped to achieve: the
                    improvement of the members' ability to take responsibility for their own affairs. Yet when
                    the board exercised independence in ways the FSA did not approve, the agency sought to intervene to
                    protect what it saw as its own interests.
            The fact that the FSA hired the farm manager also worked against the long-term goal of developing
                    competent, independent farm management. Theoretically, the manager reported to the board of
                    directors, but since he was actually an FSA employee, the board's real authority was
                    limited. In effect, the farm manager controlled day-to-day operations, including work assignments
                    and disciplinary action. Although many farm members banded together in opposition to the FSAs
                    exercise of authority, they never developed the skills necessary for true cooperative work.
                    Cooperation became a matter of going along with the manager's program. Individual members
                    did not become effective at the negotiation and compromise needed to function cooperatively.
            The FSA's strategy for providing day-to-day income for farm members ultimately worked
                    against the development of a sense of ownership among the members. As owners of Deshee Farm, members
                    theoretically derived their livelihood from its operations and profits. Since members had to meet a
                    low income criterion to qualify, however, none of them had any savings upon which to live while the
                    farm initiated income-generating activities. A means had to be devised to support the members, at
                    least during the first year of operation, until the farm had its own revenue. Much debate took place
                    within the FSA as to how to provide this financial support. FSA clients who leased individual farms
                    received support in the form of a loan. Loans to individual association members, however, were not a
                    viable option. Instead, Deshee Farm members received an hourly "labor-advance"
                    against the anticipated year's profit. The intent was to set the advance high enough to
                    provide adequate income but to keep the amount lower than the prevailing hourly wage for farm labor.
                    FSA staff members were concerned that farm members not view the advance as an hourly wage but
                    realize that it was an advance on future farm profit. Annual dividends, the size of which depended
                    upon the size of the farm's profit, would provide additional cash income.
            The labor-advance was figured in the annual farm plan as a budget item. It seems likely that the
                    difference between an hourly wage and a labor-advance calculated like an hourly wage was not
                    ultimately important to Deshee Farm members. Though there is no reason to believe they did not
                    understand the difference intellectually,  the psychological
                    effect was that of working for an hourly wage, an effect reinforced by the fact that the farm never
                    realized enough profit to pay a dividend. The labor-advance, therefore, continued as the
                    members' sole form of cash income. The rate of this remuneration and its symbolic
                    representation remained a point of dissension between farm members and the FSA.30
            
            Throughout its brief existence, Deshee Farm was plagued by a variety of management problems.
                    Conflicts between various groups were continuous: between the members and the FSA; between the
                    members and their elected board of directors; between the members and the farm manager; between the
                    farm manager and the FSA. Much of this conflict revolved around issues of control. Initially,
                    members took their lead from FSA personnel, but it was not long before the farmers sought more
                    involvement in decision making, such as the selection of new members, the allocation of produce, and
                    the determination of the amount of the labor-advance. As time went on, the members became more
                    confident and assertive in dealing with the FSA. Moreover, the levels of bureaucracy within the FSA
                    involved in the decision-making process at local, regional, and national levels further exacerbated
                    the conflict, producing both communication delays and confusion.
            Some specific incidents were indicative of the farm's overall management problems. For
                    example, in 1939 the farm manager clashed with members over "padded" time sheets,
                    the board of directors challenged the FSA's plan to provide transportation to the assistant
                    farm manager, and the board of directors sought to limit member attendance at board meetings and
                    banned member use of corporation trucks for personal use. During the first six months of 1940, 2,300
                    dozen eggs were unaccounted for in the records. When, in the fall of 1940, the board of directors
                    voted to make two members foremen, the membership objected so strenuously that the board had to
                    rescind its action. In December, 1940, the president of the board of directors got into a fist fight
                    with the farm manager, creating a crisis of authority for the farm.31 In early
                    1942, the FSA sent an investigator to the farm to look into allegations of mismanagement of funds by
                    the farm's treasurer. While the FSA wished to dismiss the treasurer, the board backed its
                    officer, and instead 
                  
                     30 R. C. Smith to W. W. Alexander, [June 24, 1937], ibid.; M. E. Hays to R. C. Smith, September 20, 1937, ibid.; Mercer
                            Evans to Virgil L. Bankson, [December 4, 1937], ibid.; Virgil L. Bankson
                            to Mercer Evans, [December 18, 1937], ibid.; Mercer Evans to J. O. Walker,
                            December 27, 1937, ibid.; J. O. Walker to R. C. Smith, [January 7, 1938],
                                ibid.; M. E. Hays to P. G. Beck, January 11, 1938, ibid.; R. C. Smith
                            to W. W. Alexander, January 28, [1938], ibid.
                  
                  
                     31 Minutes, board of directors meetings, January 10, April 25, June 6,
                            June 8, October 2, 1939, September 3, 13, November 14, December 17, 1940, ibid.; minutes, membership meetings, April 10, 1939, October 23, 1940, ibid.; Glenn A. Marsden to M. E. Hays, February 12, 1941, ibid.
                  
               
                     brought charges of disruptive behavior against the couple who
                    had been the investigator's chief sources of information.32
            
            Many of the farm's management problems can be traced to the members' lack of
                    long-term commitment to the success of Deshee Farm as a cooperative endeavor. The FSA's
                    ambivalence about its management role and its failure to support the development of a stable
                    membership contributed to, rather than alleviated, the conditions that produced management problems.
            The goal of instilling a belief in cooperative principles through educational and social programs
                    also faded as time went on. Cooperation had been an explicit part of the agenda of membership
                    meetings in the first two years at Deshee Farm, but this emphasis gradually diminished. So, too, did
                    the social function of membership meetings. In the early years at the farm, membership meetings
                    ended with some form of entertainment and refreshments. As time went on, however, the minutes
                    reflected a strictly business agenda. Attendance at membership meetings dwindled as well. Despite
                    these changes, educational and social programs continued to play an integral role in
                    members' lives at Deshee Farm. It is clear, however, that FSA educational and social
                    programs had a more significant impact on improving individual skills (at least for some
                    individuals) than on developing a commitment to cooperative enterprise or an exceptional sense of
                    community among Deshee Farm families as a group.
            Former members have mixed recollections of the nature of community at Deshee Farm. One commented
                    that, depending upon the work assignment, a member could go for several months and see only two or
                    three other members. One member's wife had no memory of attending meetings; as she
                    recalled, only men went to meetings. Another wife, however, remembered Christmas parties and social
                    events and commented on the loss of community spirit after the farm was liquidated.33
            
            The physical layout of Deshee Farm, comprised of two areas of concentrated housing and four areas of
                    scattered housing, probably provided quite different experiences of community and neighborhood for
                    members and their families. Two of the sites, Forty-one and Beal, had numerous houses in close
                    proximity, providing opportunity for convenient visiting. The other houses, however, were scattered
                    in groups of two or three. In at least one instance a single dwelling stood alone some distance from
                    other Deshee Farm homes.
            
               
                  32 Daniel Heagney to John A. Dowd, February 25, 1942, ibid.; Victor H. Davison to P. G. Beck, March 3, 6, 27, 1942, ibid.; B.
                        W. Lodwick to C. B. Baldwin, April 141, 1942, ibid.; minutes, board of
                        directors meetings, March 17, April 2, 1942, ibid.
               
               
                  33 Lloyd Witsman, interview with author, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, August, 1994; Olive Simmons, telephone interview with author, June, 1991;
                        Ruby Stephens, interview with author, Bruceville, Indiana, May, 1991.
            
            
            The scattered physical layout of Deshee land seems to have strained the members' sense of
                    community. That antagonism and competition existed between the different farm sites is evident in
                    the members' desire to reorganize the farm into three independent units. One former
                    resident recalled that some members had complained that those living on one particular site thought
                    they were better than those living on other sites.34
            
            Another rift, alluded to by several former residents, was that between the hill farmers (those who
                    came from 
                        Martin County
                    ) and the bottom-land farmers (those from 
                        Knox County
                    ). The two groups were defined in terms of both their farming techniques and their
                    supposed attitudes toward farm work. Farming in the hills of 
                        Martin County
                     required different knowledge and skill than farming in the river valley of 
                        Knox County
                    . Members from 
                        Knox County
                     may have had an advantage in that they were working in a familiar environment. The hill
                    farmers from 
                        Martin County
                     were viewed as being more "laid back" in their approach to work and
                    at the same time more likely to challenge or question authority (i.e., the FSA). The bottom-land
                    farmers were viewed as being more industrious workers and also more likely to accept FSA direction
                    without question. The differences between the two groups, apparently more important in work than in
                    social settings, was one more source of tension among members.35 It is not
                    surprising that planners in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., would not recognize that a difference of less than fifty miles could produce two
                    quite different farming cultures, but the government's failure to take this difference into
                    account was one more obstacle to be overcome in the development of cooperative working relations
                    among Deshee Farm members.
            Despite the fact that the cooperative and practical training viewpoints operated side-by-side in many
                    respects at Deshee Farm, ultimately the two approaches were incompatible. Deshee Farm was operating
                    without consistent long-term goals. As the country's tolerance for experimentation waned,
                    more conservative voices prevailed. The long-term cooperative goals of Deshee Farm planners
                    represented a significant change in agricultural practices and values and were, therefore, a threat
                    to the agricultural establishment. 
                  
                     34 Fred Raney, interview with author, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, May, 1991.
                  
                     35 The characterizations are this author's, drawn from
                            comments made during interviews with former residents. All the men with whom this writer
                            spoke made reference to hill and bottom-land farmers. In a telephone interview in June,
                            1991, Mrs. Olive Simmons was specifically questioned about her memory of such a split. She
                            did not have any such recollection and named the couples with whom she and her husband
                            primarily socialized, couples that included both Martin and 
                                Knox County
                             members. That the distinction between the two types of farmers was not one
                            originating with Deshee Farm members is evident from a newspaper article about RA purchase
                            of farmland in which a local farmer was quoted as saying, "We bottom land farmers
                            know what to do in high water, but if any hill folk are resettled on this land,
                            you'll have to take them out with mussel hooks." 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Sun-Commercial, February 10, 1937.
               
                     Short-term training goals became the only politically
                    defensible justification for Deshee Farm and the other cooperative farm projects, and it was these
                    goals that finally dominated. Despite the cooperative organizational structure, the FSA's
                    management strategy undermined the development of real cooperation and compromised any hope for
                    long-term success of the farm as a cooperative enterprise.
            Despite its difficulties, the farm was not without promise. Since the farm had officially come into
                    existence at the end of January, 1938,36 its members had little time in which to
                    develop and implement a farm plan and have a successful first year of operation. Roy A. Smith, the
                    farm's first manager, remembered that on his first visit to the farm in February, 1938,
                    "there were no horses, cattle, hogs, tractors, plows, or anything to operate a farm in
                    sight." It seemed to him "that if Deshee Farm, Inc. was to start operations in
                    1938 a miracle would have to happen." By the time Smith moved to the farm on April 15, he
                    found that "Deshee Farm, Inc. had progressed by leaps and bounds." Not only were
                    there equipment and livestock, but also some plowing and planting had been done. "It
                    looked," Smith recalled, "as if the miracle had happened and the chances that
                    Deshee Farm, Inc. would be able to get a crop in had increased considerably."37
            
            Operating through the committee structure, the new members of Deshee Farm did implement a farm plan
                    for the 1938 season, but the weather, the farmer's friend and foe, did not cooperate.
                    First, it rained all spring, making it difficult to start planting. Then, according to Smith,
                    "the weather man decided it was time to have a dry spell. Plowing for corn was started. The
                    ground got hard and cloddy. We almost wore out all the tools trying to get the ground in shape to
                    plant corn." But close to 1,375 acres did get planted in tomatoes, corn, soybeans,
                    potatoes, oats, and alfalfa. Most of the crops did well, Smith reported, "until July 3
                    when, after a hard rain and several hours of sandbagging, the Deshee River
                    levee broke …. Any one that worked on the levee knows that there was not enough men in 
                        Knox County
                     to hold the water back that morning." When the damage was added up, the farm
                    had lost over two hundred acres of crops and several members' gardens. According to Smith,
                    "the 40 acre tomato field was seeded to soybeans twice after the flood and destroyed twice
                    by floods that came after the break in the levee."38 Despite the
                    setbacks, the farm ended the year close to breaking even, with a deficit of only $246.63,
                    though much of the 
                  
                     36 Minutes, board of directors meeting, January [25], 1938, RG 96,
                            National Archives.
                  
                     37 "Farm Manager's Report to the Members of Deshee
                            Farm, Inc., First Annual Meeting, January 9, 1939," ibid.
                  
                  
                            38
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  TRACTOR AND HORSES ON DESHEE FARM COMING IN FROM THE FIELD AT THE END OF THE DAY
                  
                  Reproduced from the Collections of the Library of Congress, Negative No.
                            LC-USF-34-60967-D.
                farm's profit was in increased inventory value (e.g., the
                    appreciation of livestock) rather than in actual sales.39
            
            The ups and downs of the first year of operation for Deshee Farm foreshadowed its entire operational
                    history. From a strictly agricultural perspective, there were certainly successes: the
                    farm's dairy and hog operations were recognized for high quality produce. Though the
                    poultry enterprise was initially plagued by disease, it, too, eventually developed into a sound
                    farming operation. After a visit to Deshee Farm in May, 1940, Donald R. Rush, an agricultural
                    economist for the Department of Agriculture in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., was complimentary, advising Theo Myers, acting community manager, to make sure
                    the members could appreciate "the actual amount of soil improvement, fences, etc. that
                    [had] been done, and what might be expected in the way of returns over succeeding years."
                    Rush found the farm "to be progressing very nicely." In his view, "the
                    fence rows were clean, the dairy herd was in very good shape, the spirit of the men appeared to be
                    excellent." Significantly, 
                  
                     39
                            Ibid.; William Lightfoot to Joseph W. Eaton, August 11, 1941, RG 96,
                            National Archives.
               
                     he found that "the farming practices followed stood
                    out in sharp contrast to those on surrounding farms."40
            
            Speaking to the membership on June 19, 1940, secretary-treasurer Charles Gallagher proudly described
                    the farm's accomplishments. The dairy herd was "T.B. and Bangs tested,"
                    one-fourth registered, and "considered a clean herd." Efforts had been made
                    "to organize our dairy to produce the cleanest milk possible." A recently
                    initiated retail milk delivery route was selling milk in 
                        Vincennes
                     and Decker "on quality alone." The farm's hogs were
                    "not to be duplicated in this vicinity," the previous year had been
                    "steady money makers," and, with only one or two exceptions, had "brought
                    premium prices."41 A number of plans, such as one for a roadside market
                    and one for a cheese production facility, never materialized, but production enterprises that were
                    initiated at Deshee Farm seemed to improve with each season.
            The year 1943 was a pivotal one for Deshee Farm. FSA programs had been viewed from the beginning with
                    hostility by conservative factions both in and out of Congress. Key issues of contention were
                    government ownership of large tracts of farmland and government support of cooperative associations.
                    Congressional discontent and pressure to liquidate these projects became public knowledge by 1942.
                    At the membership meeting held on March 22, 1943, L. L. Wilson of the regional FSA staff explained
                    to the members that the government-owned land the association was leasing would be sold. The
                    government intended to sell the land to the members with the idea that Deshee Farm, Inc., would
                    continue as a private cooperative independent of the government. Wilson predicted that Deshee Farm
                    "would be presented with a contract before June 30, 1943."42
                    Serious discussion about the impending sale led the members to stipulate the conditions under which
                    they might be willing to consider buying the farmland. They requested that the farm be divided into
                    three separate units: one at Beal, one at Forty-one, and one at Center. Each unit would have its own
                    farm plan and equipment and would be responsible for its own production. Specific farm operations
                    were proposed for each site. The impetus for this proposal stemmed from the board's
                    dissatisfaction with the inequality of equipment distribution to the sites and inefficiency in
                    managing equipment use among the sites. The board also believed that morale and, consequently,
                    operating efficiency could be greatly improved if there were fewer members working 
                  
                     40 Donald R. Rush to William Lightfoot, May 7, 1940, ibid.
                  
                  
                     41 Minutes, membership meeting, June 19, 1940, ibid.
                            Gallagher was a farm member as well as the secretary-treasurer.
                  
                     42 The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News reported on congressional concern about government ownership of land
                            and support for cooperative farming in its issue for March 6, 1942. Minutes, membership
                            meeting, March 22, 1943, RG 96, National Archives.
               
                     together. In other words, the larger the group, the more
                    problems there were in working cooperatively toward common goals.43
            
            A significant division existed within the membership at this time. Key points at issue were whether
                    or not the farm could afford to pay a cash dividend and the salary and benefits of the farm
                        manager.44 It was also apparent to L. L. Wilson of the FSA "that
                    there [were] approximately ten members of the farm who were not thoroughly sympathetic with the
                    program that the balance of the people are trying to put on." Wilson described these ten
                    members as "for the most part people who are not contributing their full share of the labor
                    that should be done in the operation of the business" in contrast to "the members
                    of the farm who were interested in its welfare, rather than their own selfish interests, [and] were
                    in favor of taking no steps which would in any way jeopardize the security of Deshee
                        Farm."45 Membership continued to be a problem during 1943. In
                    January Deshee Farm had twenty-nine members. By August the membership was down to twenty-two. Only
                    fourteen members attended the September membership meeting.46
            
            Membership problems were compounded by natural disaster. Despite efforts by the Army Corps of
                    Engineers to reinforce it, the Breevoort levee was once again, in May, 1943, breached by flood
                    waters. The flood damage was physically and financially devastating to Deshee Farm. It is impossible
                    to imagine that the loss did not also affect the morale of the members. Given the pressure on the
                    FSA from Congress to liquidate government ownership of farmland, and given Deshee Farm's
                    slow progress toward financial and managerial stability, the flood could not have come at a worse
                        time.47
            
            Uncertainty about the future of Deshee Farm continued well into the spring of 1944. Disagreement
                    between the members about a course of action appears to have been the obstacle to negotiating a plan
                    with the government. In March, the board of directors, with support from FSA officials, took action
                    to expel six farm members who were viewed by the board as obstructing the goals and progress of the
                        association.48
            
            
               
                  43 L. L. Wilson to A. B. Van Huss, [July, 1943?], ibid.
               
               
                  44 L. L. Wilson to A. B. Van Huss, March 24, 1943, ibid.; minutes, board of directors meeting, March 8, 1943, ibid.;
                        minutes, special membership meeting, March 22, 1943, ibid.
               
               
                  45 L. L. Wilson to A. B. Van Huss, March 24, 1943, Ibid.
               
               
                  46 Minutes, membership meetings, January 30, May 14, August 25, September
                        20, 1943, ibid.
               
               
                  47 "Deshee Farm, Inc. Operating Budget for the Period January 1,
                        1944 to December 31, 1944," ibid.; P. G. Beck to Frank 
                            Hancock
                        , February 7, 1944, ibid.; F. Henry Stephens, interview with
                        author, Bruceville, Indiana, May, 1991.
               
                  48 P. G. Beck to Frank 
                            Hancock
                        , February 7, 1944, RG 96, National Archives; minutes, board of directors meeting,
                        March 8, 1944, ibid.; minutes, membership meeting, March 16, 1944, ibid.; D. Robert Troyer to P. G. Beck, March 8, 1944, ibid.
               
            
            
            The record suggests that the remaining members intended to try to make Deshee Farm succeed and were
                    interested in purchasing the farm's land from the government. But by July, plans were being
                    made to liquidate.49 The records of Deshee Farm do not explain why the members
                    decided to dissolve rather than purchase Deshee Farm. One former member recalled that there were not
                    enough members willing to participate with each other to have a viable operation. Some members
                    simply did not work well together. A successful operation required more than just enough people to
                    operate the farm; it needed enough people who could invest and work with each other. An additional
                    and significant problem was fear of debt. Many of the farm's members were young men who
                    came of age as farmers at a time when debt spelled ruin. One former member acknowledged that this
                    psychological outlook stayed with him throughout his life.50 What is interesting
                    is that there were several Deshee Farm members willing to consider making a long-term commitment to
                    cooperative agricultural production.
            On January 8, 1945, at a special meeting of the members, a resolution was passed "to
                    dissolve the corporation and authorize the Board of Directors to carry out the necessary procedure
                    to conform to Indiana laws governing such dissolution." The last recorded meeting of the
                    board occurred on March 12, 1945, when the board voted to give compensation to "those
                    individuals who stayed with Deshee Farm through complete and final liquidation."51
            
            Barely more than seven years after it had commenced on January 25, 1938, the official life of Deshee
                    Farm, Inc., came to a close. Five families who had been farm members purchased individual farms from
                    the FSA, buying land that the farm had leased from the government.
            Deshee Farm began with much promise. Though the extant documents are official records and lack an
                    intimacy that might be found in personal diaries or correspondence, they still convey a sense of
                    excitement and hope at the beginning of the experiment. The records also reveal a feeling of
                    deepening discouragement and frustration as the farm progressed. What, then, went wrong?
            In the final analysis, it was national politics that brought about the demise of Deshee Farm. Before
                    Deshee and other federal cooperative 
                  
                     49 P. G. Beck to Frank 
                                Hancock
                            , March 6, 1944, ibid.; "Deshee Farm, Inc. Operating
                            Budget for the Period January 1, 1944 to December 31, 1944," ibid.; Frank 
                                Hancock
                             to P. G. Beck, April 18, 1944, ibid.; D. Robert Troyer to B.
                            W. Lodwick, May 20, 1944, ibid.; [signature unclear], Office of the
                            Administrator, Farm Security Administration, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., to B. W. Lodwick, Acting Regional Director, July 3,1944, ibid.; B. W. Lodwick to Hubert W. Leader, District FSA Supervisor, July 25, 1944,
                                ibid.; minutes, board of directors meeting, July 29, 1944, ibid.; 
                                Vincennes
                             Sun-Commercial, August 14, 1944.
                  
                     50 Lloyd Witsman, interview with author, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, August, 1994.
                  
                     51 Special membership meeting, January 8, 1945, RG 96, National
                            Archives; minutes, board of directors meeting, March 12, 1945, ibid.
                  
               
                     farm projects were much more than rough plans on paper, the
                    political climate no longer favored economic and social experimentation. In the act that created the
                    FSA, Congress directed that appropriations could only be used to liquidate or manage cooperative
                    projects, not expand them.52 Initially, the FSA appears to have focused on
                    Congress's management mandate and ignored its liquidation directive. But eventually forces
                    within both the government and the agricultural establishment that viewed cooperative farming with
                    hostility brought increasing pressure to liquidate. The patriotism of FSA personnel who supported
                    such programs was questioned. And changes in FSA staff brought about decreased commitment for
                    cooperative programs within the agency itself.53
            
            As time passed, farm records registered less emphasis on promoting cooperative values and more on
                    practical concerns. Increasing the number of members became more desirable than developing
                    cooperative attitudes and skills among existing members. The FSA, while ostensibly hoping to promote
                    independence of farm members, was not willing to let those members make the mistakes that such
                    independence might allow, since those mistakes might prove politically damaging to the FSA.
            While there was some initial grumbling at the local level about Deshee Farm, the local community
                    seems to have accepted the farm and its members. Though the farm has been called "Little
                    Russia" even in recent years, former members say they were never personally treated badly
                    by the community. One farm member believes that the negative attitudes came from those who were
                        jealous.54 Deshee Farm was a showplace. It was featured on agricultural
                    tours and covered by the press locally, regionally, and even internationally, and it produced
                    prize-winning products.55 It was not local but national politics that produced
                    the conditions that ultimately led to the failure of Deshee Farm.
            How, then, does one assess the impact of Deshee Farm fifty years later? The farm clearly did not
                    achieve the original goals envisioned by its planners. The association was unable to sustain a
                    profitable business, pay off its debts to the government, and become an independent worker-owned
                    corporation. Despite its ultimate failure, however, Deshee Farm did offer opportunities to its
                    members for technical, managerial, and leadership training and for an 
                  
                     52 In title 4, section 43 of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Purchase
                            Act.
                  
                     53 U.S. House of Representatives Select Committee of the House
                            Committee on Agriculture to Investigate the Activities of the Farm Security
                                Administration, Farm Security Administration: Hearings, 20-24; Baldwin, Poverty and Politics, 386-87, 400-402.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 13, 1990; Lloyd Witsman, interview with author, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, May, 1991; Mr. and Mrs. Shirley Sturgeon, interview with author,
                            Patoka, Indiana, August, 1994.
                  
                     55 Thompson, "Against the Grain," 108-16; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Sun-Commercial, April 16. 1941.
               
                     improved standard of living. Some members were able to make
                    more of these opportunities than others. Though admittedly a small sample, the former Deshee
                    residents interviewed for this article are representative of what many would call traditional
                    America. They are hard working, family-oriented, and patriotic. Several members operated family
                    farms successfully after they left Deshee Farm. Their experience at Deshee Farm turned them into
                    neither wastrels nor radicals. These former residents' opinions about the farm range from
                    enthusiasm to neutrality. For some the farm was no more than an interlude, a brief passage in the
                    course of a lifetime. For others the farm represented only frustration and failure. But there were
                    those for whom Deshee Farm provided new ideas, options, and opportunities. In these individuals the
                    successes of Deshee Farm live on.
         
         
         
            "Please Send Stamps": The Civil War Letters of William Allen Clark Part IV*
            
            
                    Edited by Margaret Black Tatum
                    **
                
            From March to August, 1864, William Allen Clark's letters build in descriptive intensity as
                    Clark grows less fearful of censorship and more optimistic about the North's chances of
                    winning the war. He states his political views more forcefully: "I am a Douglas Democrat
                    & will never vote for the mongrel, kinky headed abolitionists. I detest them" (June
                    5, 1864). He describes battles in greater detail. The letters of this period also contain the words
                    of a man tired of fighting and of seeing war. Huntsville's civility and the polite tea
                    parties he attended early in 1864 are far behind him as he marches ahead toward the Battle of
                        Kennesaw Mountain and the Seige of 
                        Atlanta
                    . During this time, he makes his first admission to his parents of killing a Confederate
                    soldier in an encounter he calls "the narrowest escape I have made" (May 30,
                    1864).
            Clark is battle weary and longs to return home to Indiana. He writes often of securing a furlough,
                    although he declines leave in April so another soldier with a medical emergency at home can go in
                    his place. Writing remains important, but Clark is forced to use blackberry juice and gunpowder as
                    ink and to scavenge for paper and stamps. Tired of the life of a soldier, the Clark wit is not as
                    evident as in earlier letters, but occasionally his humor surfaces with wonderful imagery:
                    "Dont scold about this writing for it is done with wet gun powder, and it goes by flashes
                    anyway you try it" (August 7, 1864). After days spent fighting around 
                        Atlanta
                    , smelling death, and drinking contaminated water, Clark exclaims, "I sometimes
                    think I will quit writing" (August 7, 1864).
            
               
                  * This is the fourth and final installment of William Allen
                        Clark's Civil War letters. The first part (August 17-December 21, 1862) is found in
                        Margaret Black Tatum, "‘Please Send Stamps’: The Civil War
                        Letters of William Allen Clark," Part I, Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XCI (March, 1995), 81-108. For background information on Clark and the letters themselves see
                            ibid., 81-87. Subsequent installments of the letters are: Tatum,
                        "‘Please Send Stamps,"’ Part II, Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCI (June, 1995), 197-225 and Tatum, ‘"Please
                        Send Stamps,"’ Part III, Indiana Magazine of History, XCI
                        (September, 1995), 288-320. All of Clark's Civil War letters, along with his army
                        discharge papers, are housed in the Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                         (collection title: "Clark, W. A."). They are the recent gift of
                        Mrs. August Frederick Voss, Jr.
               
                  * Margaret Black Tatum is an English instructor at Kirtland
                        Community College, Roscommon, 
                            Michigan
                        .
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY. XCI (December. 199S). © 1995. Trustees of Indiana
                        University.
            
            
            In fact, there are no letters to Clark's parents between late August and December, 1864.
                    During part of this time, Clark was home on leave, having received a furlough coinciding with the
                    autumn elections. That furlough may have been a result of Governor Oliver Morton's efforts
                    to bring Hoosier soldiers home to vote. Morton believed that men fighting for the Union would
                    support the Republican ticket. Considering Clark's outspoken opposition to the governor,
                    however, one can be assured Morton did not receive his vote.
            When Clark returns to his regiment in November of 1864, his letters are quite different. There are
                    fewer detailed descriptions of his daily life as a soldier. Now Clark directs his comments to life
                    at home, posing mathematics problems to younger brother George and speaking of his cousins Alma and
                    Jennie in 
                        Kansas
                    . He sees the war winding down, as captured Confederates walk past the 72nd Regiment on
                    their way to prisons, and he knows his days as a soldier are ending. In these letters, he looks
                    ahead to life after the army.
            The last letter in the collection is dated February 19, 1865, leaving undocumented the final months
                    of Clark's tour of duty. Clark may have maintained his habit of writing home, but no
                    additional letters have been found. Clark received his discharge in June, 1865, and returned to 
                        Clinton County
                    . Six months later, he wed his cousin Jennie 
                        Jordan
                     in Tecumseh, 
                        Kansas
                    . In civilian life, Clark became a Baptist minister, settling with his family in 
                        Valparaiso
                     in 1878 and later moving to Bristol, 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            Throughout the war, the feisty, outspoken Clark remained fixed in his beliefs. He grew from an
                    Indiana farm boy into a Union soldier in his three years of service, but his political convictions
                    never wavered. Clark was not a man who believed in racial equality, but he was a citizen of a
                    country he believed in strongly enough to fight for, even when he was criticized by family and
                    friends. Describing to his parents a letter written to a friend, he says: "I would let them
                    know that if I wasnt an Abolitionist, I was still laboring in defense of the Star Spangled
                    Banner" (February 19, 1865). Clark concludes his last letter with words that show his
                    desire to continue writing and that echo through all his letters: "please send me a
                    Quarter's worth of Stamps."
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 10. 
                              
                                 
                                    Mooresville, Alabama
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March 20th 18641
                           
                                    Sunday Evening
                        
                        Affectionate Parents,
                        This Beautiful Evening finds me pen in hand to write you a few lines to inform you
                                    that I am still in good health, except a severe cold. I was at meeting today in 
                                        Mooresville
                                     at the Methodist Church and heard a good sermon proclaimed by Rev. C.
                                    L. McDonald. His text was in the 11th Chapter of John & and 35th verse.
                        We have had a week of clear weather. But it has been quite cold. The Peach Bloom was
                                    out, and it is thought to be killed. I have been foraging every day in the past
                                    week. We are gathering corn and storing it at the R.R. Depot, so that if we move, it
                                    can be transported to the front. I dont hear any war news anymore, as there is no
                                    papers sold here.
                        I received youres of Feb. 25th last night, the first that I have heard from you for
                                    sometime. It looks hard for freedom's Shriekers that are running from the
                                    draft now to get a Township Bounty of $225 and a government Bounty of
                                    $406, while we uns that have done the fighting and stood the hardships of
                                    the Service to be yearning for our mizerable pittance of 13 dollars a month and no
                                    bounty, and charged three prices for our clothing and Equipage.2
                        
                        There is seven of our Recruits at the Hospital a ready. They are all sick of the
                                    Show. Now how will they feel in six months of active service?
                        I believe I have wrote all the news. Please write oftener and more of it. My love to
                                    enquiring friends.
                        
                                    I remain your Loving Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 William Allen Clark guided the following transcription of his
                        correspondence by reminding his brother George, in a letter of January 9, 1865, to place periods
                        at the end of sentences and to capitalize proper names. Probably in part because of the
                        difficult circumstances under which he wrote, Clark himself did not use apostrophes in his
                        letters; his periods, commas, and pen pauses all resembled one another; and his capitalization
                        was haphazard. In recognition of Clark's obvious knowledge of grammar, correct
                        punctuation has been placed at the ends of sentences, commas have been added throughout the
                        letters to facilitate reading, and words that begin sentences have been capitalized. In other
                        instances Clark's capitalization, whenever clear, remains unchanged; in case of doubt
                        the rules of modern usage were followed. Some decisions regarding sentence divisions were
                        necessarily arbitrary, and the letters have also been arbitrarily divided into paragraphs. The
                        location and spacing of headings, salutations, and closings have been standardized.
                        Clark's spelling, which was quite good, has been retained.
               
                  2 The federal, state, and local governments all resorted to bounties to
                        "stimulate military enlistments. After the Enrollment Act of 3 March, 1863,
                        $100 was given to conscripts and substitutes; $300 to 3-year volunteers;
                        and $400 to five-year volunteers." State and local bounties varied, which
                        meant that soldiers from poorer districts often went to war in place of their richer neighbors.
                        Mark Mayo Boatner III, The Civil War Dictionary (rev. ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1988). 74-75. For more on bounties, see Margaret Black Tatum,
                        "‘Please Send Stamps’: The Civil War Letters of William Allen
                        Clark," Part III, Indiana Magazine of History, XCI (September, 1995),
                        311n.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 11 (Eleven) 
                              
                                 
                                    Mooresville
                                 , Ala.
                           
                                    March 27th '64
                                    Sunday Evening
                        
                        Ever Dear parents,
                        This Beautiful P.M. finds me seated to pen you a few lines. All Nature seems to be
                                    enlivened by the balmy air of Spring. Buds are opening, and the Bloom of various
                                    kinds of trees and shrubs is filling the air with its fragrance. The peaches have
                                    all been killed with the frost. But other fruits will be abundant if nothing
                                    happens.
                        Since Col. Kirkpatrick come back, Politics has been the all engrossing Ideas in the
                                    minds of the 72nd. He has made several speeches and is strongly in favor of Unkle
                                    Abe. He says that we will be furloughed next fall during the Elections, if we will
                                    reinlist for three years, big price to pay in order to have the right of
                                        Franchise.3
                        
                        I heard the Gospel proclaimed by Mr. McDonald today at the Brick Church in 
                                        Mooresville
                                    . The house was crowded, and he made a good discourse. His text was the
                                    3rd Chapter of Matthew, 2nd verse. Our Chaplain had meeting in camp at the same
                                    hour, but I couldent relish his Audience, as it was formed of the Colored population
                                    for many miles in this vicinity. His sermon was for the Blacks.
                        War Items—Dodge's forces have crossed the [Tennessee]
                                        River at 
                                        Decatur
                                     and are preparing to move in to control 
                                        Alabama
                                     as soon as practicable.4 The 15th and 4th Corps are
                                    ordered to 
                                        Virginia
                                    , and there is some talk of our going there or to 
                                        Missouri
                                    .5 All is quiet on the Tennessee
                                    River, so far.
                        Our Pay day is postponed till June, so they say. There will then be six months pay
                                    due. It seems strange that we cant be paid every two or four months.
                        We have 40 Recruits here now, and more coming. G. P. Reed, M. T. Livingston, T. I.
                                    Jackson, and Alf Bowen are all the ones that I knew at home. John Williams and
                                    Sandford Bowen havent come yet. Our Regiment is now as large as it was at first.
                        Here is My Weekly Report:
                        Sunday, March 20th in camp, wrote No. 10 home, was at church. Monday, in camp.
                        Tuesday, foraging.
                        Wednesday, in camp.
                        
                           
                              3 Samuel Kirkpatrick was lieutenant colonel of
                                        Clark's regiment. See ibid., 296n. For the issue of
                                        soldiers receiving leave at election-time in return for reenlistment, see ibid., 311n.
                           
                              4 Union General Grenville Mellen Dodge commanded portions
                                        of the Army of the 
                                            Tennessee
                                        . 
                                            Mooresville
                                        , from whence Clark writes this letter, is just across the river
                                        from 
                                            Decatur
                                        .
                           
                              5 On March 26 the 72nd joined the Third Brigade, Second
                                        Cavalry Division, and began its move to 
                                 Columbia, Tennessee
                              . From here, the newly appointed cavalry went
                                        on to participate in the 
                                            Atlanta
                                         campaign. [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the
                                            Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1866-1869), II, 673.
                        
                        
                        Thursday, on picket, received a letter from S. S.6
                        
                        Friday, in camp, received two letters, 1 from Coz. Alma 
                                        Jordan
                                     and some Irish Literature from G. W. Irwin of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     fame. I wrote to S. S. and to Alma.
                        Saturday, in camp, received a letter from—guess words—wrote to
                                    G. W. Irwin.
                        Sunday, received No. 7 from home. It contained three stamps, and I was mighty glad to
                                    get them, as they are not to be had here, and my greatest pass time is writing.
                        I am seated by a Monster Red Oak and so far from camp that I am free from the noise
                                    and Bustle there. I have a chance to get a furlough now, but it will prevent Mr.
                                    Crutchfield from going to see his family, and his wife is sick and in a manner
                                    dependent on the people for support. Consequently, I will give him my place. Col.
                                    Miller said I could get another chance this spring, and if you think it best, I will
                                    try for one in May. My old messmate W. Hendrickson has come to us again. He was left
                                    in the Hospital when we left Murfreesboro last Spring. Alex Simms is well and weighs
                                    230 lbs. My back is all right again, and I feel as well as ever. I weigh 167 pounds.
                                    Jonas couldent throw me round like he used to. George, be a good Boy. Tell Mary to
                                    kiss the Baby for me.
                        
                                    Your loving son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Mooresville
                                 , Ala.
                           
                                    April 2nd [1864]
                                    Saturday Evening
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I seat myself to pen you a few lines to let you know that I am well and hope this
                                    will find you the same. This is a pleasant day, more like summer than Spring. I have
                                    but little news to write. Health is good, and every thing is excitement. We march in
                                    the morning at 7 1/2 oclock with 10 days Rations. Where to I cant tell. All is mum
                                    on that questions. It is reported that the Butter Nuts are intrenching at
                                            
                              Charleston, Coles County, Illinois
                           . The paper says they are 1,500 strong. I dont
                                    believe it.7 Forest made an attempt to get into 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , but was refused at Paducah.8 There has been 9
                                    trains run on the 
                                        Decatur
                                     R.R. today, all loaded with Veterans.
                        
                           
                              6 S.S. Jordan was Clark's brother Stephen. A list
                                        of family members, who will not hereafter be identified, appears on page 437.
                           
                              7 The term "butternuts" was applied to
                                        Confederate soldiers, who often wore uniforms dyed a yellow-brown color, and to
                                        southern sympathizers in the North. In this case, Clark is referring to southern
                                        sympathizers. On March 28, 1864, opponents of the war attacked Federal troops in
                                                
                                 Charleston, Illinois
                              . Five people died
                                        and twenty were injured in the worst outbreak of antiwar violence since the 
                                            New York
                                         City draft riots of 1863. John S. Bowman, ed., The
                                            Civil War Almanac (
                                            New York
                                        , 1982), 190.
                           
                              8 On March 24, 1864, Confederate cavalry commanded by
                                        General Nathan 
                                            Bedford
                                         Forrest captured Union City, 
                                            Tennessee
                                        . The Confederates then crossed into 
                                            Kentucky
                                         and on March 25 attacked Paducah. Forrest's cavalry
                                        entered the city but 
                        
                        
                        There is some important move on hand.
                        Weekly Report
                        Sunday, in camp, wrote No 11 home.
                        Monday, foraging, wrote to Grandmother, received a letter from S. S. Clark.
                        Tuesday, in camp.
                        Wednesday, in camp, received a letter from Jonas D. Clark.
                        Friday, in camp.
                        Saturday, in camp,
                        So far, George W. Brown has not come up yet. Dont know when he will. It is late and
                                    we start early in the morning, so I must pack up. Excuse poor writing, as my pen is
                                    poor, and I am in haste. My respects to enquiring friends. I subscribe myself
                        
                                    your affectionate Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 13 
                              
                                 
                                    Columbia
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    [April 11, 1864]
                                    
                              Court Room Up Stairs No. 2
                           
                                    Sunday Evening
                        
                        Dear Parents,
                        I received yours of March 27th last Monday at Huntsville [
                                        Alabama
                                    ]. But we were on the move, so I delayed answering till to day. At
                                    Huntsville we loaded our Camp Equipage on the Cars, and W. Grissmer & W. A.
                                    Clark was detailed to guard them. So we had a fine ride on the cars. We left
                                    Huntsville Tuesday morning and arrived here in the evening. We guarded the equipage
                                    till yesterday. Then the Regt. come in and relieved us, and this morning Billy
                                    Grissmer and I was detailed for Provost duty.9 There is 56 from
                                    the Brigade. We have good quarters and plenty of Rations, and only on duty two Hours
                                    in 24. How long we will stay here I cant tell. We come here to reorganize the
                                    Division, and to guard the R. Road from 
                                        Nashville
                                     to 
                                        Decatur
                                    . The Div. will be put in Detachments along the Road. Gen.
                                        Garrard's10 Hd. Qrs. will be here, and he will
                                    command the line. But [Col. A. 0.1 Miller will command the Post here.
                        This is a Beautiful City, and contains 4,000 Inhabitants. It is situated on the South
                                    Bank of Duck River. Rector Smith's,
                                    Baldwin's, and St. Marie Institutes are located here. Smith's is
                                    Episcopalien Baldwin's is Methodist, and St. Marie's Catholic. The
                                    Small Pox is very bad here now, from two to five Deths per day.
                        
                           failed to capture the Federal garrison stationed there. On March 26, Union
                                        cavalry arrived and forced the Confederates to withdraw back into 
                                            Tennessee
                                        . Ibid.
                           
                           
                              9 William Griesmar, who originally was the drummer for the
                                        72nd Regiment, was a friend of Clark from 
                                            Clinton County
                                         and was Clark's bunkmate.
                           
                              10 Union General Kenner Garrard led the Second Cavalry
                                        Division during the 
                                            Atlanta
                                         Campaign, for which Clark and his fellow troops were preparing in
                                                
                                 Columbia, Tennessee
                              .
                        
                        
                        I was at Methodist meeting last night and today, and heard Professor Baldwin. He is a
                                    smart man but is rather sarcastic. He says that the millenium will commence in 1867
                                    or 9. He also thinks that Napoleon is the great Antichrist, and that the great
                                    Battle of Armagiddon will be fought in the Mississippi valley,
                                    and that 
                                        France
                                     and U.S. will be on one side, and the rest of the World on the other.
                                    That the US. will be victorious and that we will then have Peace.
                        War news is unimportant, and nothing doing in Congress, too much Nigger on the Brain.
                                    Business is good here. They scarcely know that war is going on. Prices is good and
                                    every thing is plenty. It looks like home to see every thing so prosperous. The
                                    weather is cool and wet. The farmers here are busy now planting corn and cotton.
                        There is some talk of our going to 
                                        Missouri
                                    . But I guess it is all Bash. We expect good news from 
                                        Richmond
                                     soon. Grant will wake them up this Spring. I hope that McClelland will
                                    fix it all right. He will be the next President I think." I read Col.
                                    Wolford's speech that he made at 
                                        Lexington
                                     [
                                        Kentucky
                                    ] on the war, and I think he is just right.
                        I havent received any mail since we come here. We will get our mail here to morrow.
                                    It is late, and I know of nothing more to write. Give my love to all. Write often. I
                                    remain,
                        
                                    your affectionate Son,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                    
                              72nd Ind. Vols.
                              Company K.
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Columbia
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    April 24th 1864
                                    Sabbath Evening,
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I take my pen in hand this Evening to pen you a few lines to inform you how I am
                                    getting along. It has been raining all day, & I have been laying in my
                                    chelbanes [chilblainesl reading all day, so I feel but little like writing.
                        Geo. W. Brown. & J. J. Williams arrived here last Tuesday, & I rec.
                                    two shirts, two letters, & two Big lumps of Sugar through the kindness of
                                    John Williams. There was also a package of paper & Envelops. The entire
                                    package was very acceptable, especialy the Shirts & writing material.
                        We had no meeting to day on account of the Rain. We have a minister in Comp. K now.
                                    His name is Westfall, a Newlight.12
                        
                        
                           
                              11 Union General George Brinton McClellan was the
                                        unsuccessful candidate for president in 1864. McClellan was known for being a
                                        brilliant military trainer but a timid leader.
                           
                              12 "New Lights" were members of the
                                        Congregational, Presbyterian, or Baptist churches who favored revivalism and
                                        emotional preaching. The name contrasted
                        
                        
                        I was out to 
                                        Mt. Pleasant
                                     yesterday on forage duty & saw the best Country that I ever saw
                                    in my life. We passed through the plantation of Gen. Bishop Polk, also that of Gen.
                                    Pillow. Polk's farm is valued at 2,000,000 dollars.13
                        
                        We are having lot of dicipline these days to initiate the recruits. We had a
                                    political meeting at Hd. Quarters last Wednesday night. But it was all gas, Lincoln
                                    & Morton. So I dident like the proceedings.
                        I havent heard any war news this week worth mentioning. Steve Aiken & W. A.
                                    Clark wrote a letter to the 
                              
                                            Frankfort
                                         Crescent the other day in reply to some slang that was written
                                    to The Banner by Richardson of Co. K. He is so insulting that we thought we would
                                    reply in regard to furloughs.14 I will have to give up all Ideas
                                    of one for this Spring as Thomas has countermanded the order, however I am
                                    contented. I only have sixteen months longer to stay any how.
                        Weekly Report
                        
                           Sunday wrote No. 14 home.
                           Monday, on picket, received a letter from Jennie 
                                            Jordan
                                        .
                           Tuesday, in camp, received No. 6 & No. 11 from home, also the package
                                        containing the Shirts, etc.
                           Wednesday, in camp, received a letter from_____.
                           Thursday, in camp, wrote to_____
                           Friday, in camp, wrote to Newton.
                           Saturday, foraging.
                        
                        It is getting late, so I will close. Write often. Excuse poor writing, for I believe
                                    I have forgot how to write. My respects to all.
                        
                                    Your affectionate Son,
                                    Allen
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 16 
                              
                                 
                                    Columbia
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    Apr. 29th 1864
                                    Friday, P.M.
                        
                        Affectionate Parents,
                        This beautiful afternoon finds me seated to give you a few lines in respons to yours
                                    of Apr. 22nd & No. 16. I have just received it. We are under orders to march
                                    in the morning at 8 oclock with 30 days Rations. We dont know where we will go. We
                                    are turning over our tents & Over coats. In fact we will take nothing but a
                                    change of 
                              these more enthusiastic sects with the "Old Lights," who
                                            practiced their faith more conservatively.
                              
                                 13 General Leonidas Polk, a member of a wealthy and
                                            prominent southern family, had been an Episcopalian bishop before the
                                            beginning of the Civil War. His nephew, General Lucius Eugene Polk, was an 
                                                Arkansas
                                             planter whose father's house was near
                                                    
                                    Columbia, Tennessee
                                 , the family
                                            having moved there in 1835. Patricia Faust, ed., The Historical
                                                Times Illustrated Encyclopedia of the Civil War (
                                                New York
                                            , 1986), 590.
                              
                                 14 The letter Clark wrote to the 
                                                Frankfort
                                            
                                            Crescent and the issue in which it appeared have
                                            unfortunately not survived.
                           
                                     Clothing. I dont know when I will have a chance
                                    to write again, so I thought I would drop you a few lines to keep you from getting
                                    uneasy if you failed in hearing from me for some time.
                        I will write but little this time, as we are busy making inventories of Surplus
                                    goods, and Equipments. Health is good. We will only leave three of Comp. K. in
                                    Hospital. But there is only half of the Company mounted. Those that are not will be
                                    stationed on the R. Road as guards. I have a splendid horse. He is 7 years old, 16
                                    1/2 hands high, & is a racker.15 G. W. B. is in command
                                    of Co. K. and is liked a great deal better than when he came up. I have but little
                                    news to write. All is rumor of important millitary movements. I think I will be able
                                    to write you more news when I write again. We havent rec. any mail for several days
                                    till today. Bill Grissmer & John Williams were detailed yesterday to go to 
                                        Nashville
                                     for horses. But the prospect is not good for getting them.
                        I believe I have written all the news. Please write often. I supose we will get our
                                    mail regular unless we get through Enemies' lines. My health is splendid. I
                                    can outrun, outjump, but not throw down the 72nd. Give my respects to inquiring
                                    friends. My love to you. Hoping that I will hear from you soon and often. I
                                    subscribe myself your Affectionate Son,
                        
                                    W. A. Clark
                                    Excuse poor writing for I have written in haste.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Weekly Report, probably sent May 5, 18641
                        April 30th '64, Started from 
                                        Columbia
                                     [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ] at 8 oclock A.M., went to Farmington 20 miles, rained all day.
                        May 1st, The wagon train failed to keep up yesterday. We are laying in camp today
                                    waiting for the train to come in.
                        May 2nd, Marched to 
                                        Shelbyville
                                    , 22 miles.
                        May 3rd, Marched to Elk River via Tullahoma, 22 miles.
                        May 4th, Marched via Deckard [Decherd] to Cumberland Tunnel, 20 miles.
                        May 5th, Marched to Stevenson [
                                        Alabama
                                    ], 20 miles.
                        Dear Parents,
                        When I last wrote I told you we had marching orders. I dident know where we was going
                                    and dont know yet. But suppose we are going to 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . We move in the morning at 5 1/2 o clock. It is reported that they are
                                    fighting at Ringgold [
                                        Georgia
                                    ]. We will cross Tenn. River at Bridgeport [
                                        Alabama
                                    ], 12 miles from here. It is 40 miles from there to 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    .
                        I rec. a letter from A. F. tonight dated April 22nd. It is getting so dark I cant see
                                    to write. Excuse poor writing, for my Desk is a 
                              
                                 15 A horse with a racking gait steps precisely,
                                            placing each hoof on the ground separately. The racker's gait is in
                                            the pattern of a walk, but the step is quicker and the pace more
                                        lively.
                           
                                     newspaper. This is short. But will tell you the
                                    items. Write often. Hoping to hear from [you] soon.
                        
                                    I subscribe myself your son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp near Dalton, 
                                    Georgia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 14th 1[8]64
                                
                        Kind Parents,
                        I now seat myself for the purpose of penning you a few lines to let you know where we
                                    are & how we are getting along. We left Stevenson, Ala. the day after I
                                    wrote No. 17 & went to Bridgeport, 12 miles. We crossed the River on the
                                    R.R. Bridge. On the 8th, we went via Shellmount [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ] to Trenton, Geo., 25 miles. On the 9th, we went to Matrimose Cave, 25
                                    miles. On the 9th, we went to 
                                        Lafayette
                                    , 8 miles. On the 11th, we were on picket, rec. two letters, No. 13 from
                                    home, and a letter from Cousin Alma. On the 12th, we came to our present camp, 5
                                    miles Southwest of Joe Johnson's Army.16 May 13th in
                                    camp.
                        The 14th, 15th, 16th & 17th, also the 23rd Army Corps passed us going toward 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . I talked with Cozens Clark & Cosmas Rhodes of the 10th Ind.,
                                    John Fulkerson of the 23d 
                                        Ohio
                                    , and with Will Patrick of the 63d Ind. They were all in good Spirits. I
                                    also talked with Joe & Jim Aikens formerly of Rossville. But now belong to
                                    the 17th 
                                        Iowa
                                    . Joe is Orderly Sergt. of Company A 17th 
                                        Iowa
                                    .
                        As to war news, it is said that Butler has taken Possession of Petersburgh, Va.
                                    & Grant has driven Lee to his intrenchments at 
                                        Richmond
                                    . Lee is reported wounded, and Longstreet killed. The Reb loss is
                                    reported to be 25,000 total.17 It is reported that the Rebs have
                                    seceded from Dalton. It is time. If we had moved on them yesterday, we could have
                                    prevented their Retreat. We have the largest Army here than we have had in the west.
                                    The 120, 121st, 122nd, 123d, 124th, 125th, 126th, 127th, 128th, 129th, &
                                    130th Ind. Regts passed here last night. They are all in one Division commanded by
                                    Gen. Manson, & they are all full Regts.18
                        
                        I dont know when I will get to write again as we are going to join Kilpatrick
                                    tomorrow. I wish you would send me a few Stamps. Some one opened my Knapsack
                                    & took my Stamps & paper last 
                              
                                 16 On May 12, 1864, Confederate General Joseph
                                            Eggleston Johnston moved his troops from Dalton to Resaca, 
                                                Georgia
                                            . Outnumbered by Union General William Tecumseh
                                            Sherman's troops, Johnston "preferred waiting for the
                                            enemy to attack and expend strength, allowing him [Johnston] to
                                            counterattack a weakened foe." Faust, The Historical
                                                Times Illustrated Encyclopedia, 400.
                              
                                 17 Clark's information on the Spotsylvania
                                            campaign (May 8-19) is not quite accurate; far from driving General Lee back
                                            to 
                                                Richmond
                                            , the Union forces led by Generals Grant and Meade had to
                                            struggle to hold their ground. When the battles comprising this campaign
                                            were over, the Union had lost eighteen thousand men while the Confederacy
                                            was missing between ten and eleven thousand. James M. McPherson, The Atlas of the Civil War (
                                                New York
                                            , 1994), 154-57.
                              
                                 18 Union General Mahlon Dickerson Manson was wounded
                                            in the Battle of Resaca on the day Clark wrote this letter. Boatner, The
                                            Civil War Dictionary, 508.
                           
                                     night, a mean trick for a soldier. I have
                                    nothing more to write today, so I will close. Please write often. My respects to all
                                    enquiring friends.
                        
                                    I remain as ever your affectionate Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                    
                              Company K, 72nd Ind. Vols.
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 19 1864 
                              Gillings Bridge [Gillem's Bridge], 
                                    Georgia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 21st
                        
                        Dear Parents,
                        Saturday, I take the present oppurtunity to inform you where I am, how I am &
                                    what we have been doing in the last week. When I last wrote, we were near Dalton,
                                    that was the 14th that P.M. We went 20 miles in the direction of 
                                        Rome
                                    . Sunday, May 15th went via 
                                        Delaware
                                     [to] Isham's Springs, 25 miles. We was on picket that night.
                                    Monday, May 16th went to Calhoun ferry, 20 miles. We crossed Oostranaula
                                        River here. It is a stream as large as Deer Creek, Ind. Tuesday, May
                                    17th, we marched to Delanua ferry, 25 miles, through as fine country as the best of
                                    Ind. Wednesday, May 18th marched to Welington's plantation, 15 miles, had a
                                    Skirmish, lost 20 men kiled, wounded, or missing. Capt. Hamlin Wilder's
                                    Adjt. Genl. was captured. The Rebel loss was 40 killed, wounded, etc. We took five
                                    prisoners & killed Col. Earl of the 2nd 
                                        Georgia
                                    . We were relieved by McPherson's Corps.19
                                    May 19th marched via Kingston to Gillin's Bridge, 30 miles. May 20th went
                                    on a Scout, marched 14 miles & captured five Rebs. This ends my report for
                                    this time.
                        The weather is clear & excessively hot. Corn is about knee high &
                                    looks well. What think you of such corn as that, while you uns all are just
                                    planting? We are in Attawans Valley
                                    [Etowah's Valley], the best valley I have seen in
                                        Ga. Attawan River is about as large as the 
                                        Wabash
                                     at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     [Indiana]. There is splendid Bridge here the Enemy had gave it a dose
                                    of Turpentine proparatory to firing it. But Wilder's Boys dashed up
                                    & captured 30 wagons of their train & the detail that had left to
                                    burn the Bridge, 30 men & a Captain. At the same time, Killpatrick dashed up
                                    to the R.R. Bridge 7 miles above here and prevented their fireing it. Our Army is
                                    now across & is fighting about 7 miles from the River. We are drawing
                                    Rations to day & getting our Horses shod. We are camped close to the R.R.20
                                    
                              
                                 19 Union General James Birdseye McPherson commanded
                                            the Army of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Ibid., 538.
                              
                                 20 The Western & Atlantic Railroad was General
                                            Johnston's sole supply line. Sherman's strategy was to
                                            outflank Johnston, who held a strong position on Rocky Face Ridge near
                                            Resaca, and to cut the railroad. On learning of the threat to his supplies,
                                            Johnston evacuated Resaca and retreated toward the Etowah
                                            River, a move that was later interpreted as a grave tactical
                                            error. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 172.
                           
                                     There is 13 trains passed to the front this
                                    morning. They run up in sight of the Enemies' lines. We are 70 miles from
                                    Chatta. & 45 from 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . It is 15 miles to Tullapoosa River & Gen.
                                    Johnson sayd he will either whip us there, or surrender, not much whip with only
                                    40,000 men. I heard today that Johnson had lost 15,000 since he left Dalton. That is
                                    killed etc. Sherman had captured 5,000 before we got to Calhoun's
                                    ferry."
                        We dont get any news from the Potomac Army or from 
                                        Butler
                                    . But I have an 
                                        Atlanta
                                     paper of the 14th, & it says the Yanks have Petersburgh, and
                                    Ft. Darling, and that Lee had fell back to Spottsylvania, C. H. [Courthouse]. It
                                    also stated that the Yankee Congress had passed a bill to raise soldiers wages to
                                    $16 per month. Niggers the same. Who wouldent live in New Africa?22
                        
                        We havent got any mail for sometime. It is at Army HdQs. & we will get it
                                    today. My health is good. I am heavier than I ever was. I weigh 172 net. Lt. Brown
                                    is liked better than I expected. He takes a gun when we go in Battle (more than any
                                    Officer in K. has done before) and is a Brave as any of the Boys.
                        I believe I have wrote enough for to day. Write often and send me a few Stamps. Tell
                                    Jonas to write. George, plow corn like a good Boy, maybe I will be home to help husk
                                    corn this 1864. Next Tuesday, I will be 20 year old. If I get out in this war before
                                    I am 21, I am going to graduate 
                                        Franklin
                                    .
                        
                                    Your Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 20 
                              Bivouac of 72nd Ind. near Dallas, Ga.
                           
                                    May 30th 1864
                        
                        Dear Parents,
                        I take my pen to inform you of my whereabouts, etc. It is very uncertain about your
                                    getting this letter, so I will write but little, simply enough to inform you that I
                                    am in the enjoyment of that inestamable Blessing, Health.
                        I wrote to you the 21st from Gilliams Bridge. On the 23rd, we started out for the
                                    front, went to 
                                        Van
                                     Wirt, 14 miles. 24th, we marched 15 miles, camped within two miles of
                                    Dallas. We had quite 
                              
                                 21 At the beginning of the 
                                                Atlanta
                                             campaign Sherman had 70,000 troops to Johnston's
                                            55,000. Both sides incurred heavy losses, but Johnston's withdrawal
                                            across the Etowah River on May 20 insured a Union
                                            victory in the Battle of Resaca. Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 22 Although black troops had been recruited with the
                                            promise that they would receive pay equal to their white counterparts, the
                                            War Department announced in June, 1863, that African-American soldiers would
                                            receive only ten dollars per month, three dollars less than whites. The
                                            reversal was intended to appease white northerners who opposed equality for
                                            blacks, but in the end it pleased no one. Partly in response to protests by
                                            black troops and their white officers, Congress finally officially
                                            authorized equal pay for all soldiers in June, 1864. Joseph T. Glatthaar,
                                                Forged in Battle: The Civil War Alliance of Black Soldiers
                                                and White Officers (
                                                New York
                                            , 1990), 169-74.
                           
                                     a fight with Iverson's Cav. On the
                                    25th, we moved to right of the enemies line. We rode 20 miles for forage. 26th, in
                                    camp. 27th, the Rebs surrounded H. Company of the 4th U.S. Cav. The 72nd went to
                                    their relief. We drove the Rebs off, capturing 7, killed 5, and wounding 3. We only
                                    had 1 man wounded slightly. He belonged to Company I. His name is Alf Burte. The 4th
                                    US. had four men captured, 1 killed & two wounded, and had 70 horses
                                    captured.
                        28th, we joined Gen. Logan on the right. I was sent out on the Skirmish line. I took
                                    my position behind a fence with 200 yards of open ground in front. I was standing
                                    quietly looking over the fence, when a minnie Ball came whizzing within two feet of
                                    my head. I couldent see where it came from, at first. But in a minute he raised up
                                    from behind a log only 75 yards in front of me. It was my turn now. I throwed a load
                                    in my Carbine & Brought it to my Shoulder. But he had his gun to his eye as
                                    soon as I. Just as I took aim, he fired. His Ball struck a rail just Breast high to
                                    me. It passed through the rail and struck my Belt plate. But was so near spent that
                                    it dident hurt me. I fired the same time, and he fell behind the log, his gun
                                    falling on the side next to me. I was on the line two hours longer. But saw nothing
                                    more of him. The Rebs then made a charge, and we had to fall back to the Regt. I
                                    think it was the narrowest escape I have made.
                        May 29th, we were skirmishing all day. No one hurt in our Regt. Last night after dark
                                    we moved out and rode till three this morning. But I dont know how far we rode or
                                    where we are. But we are within hearing of the Rebel lines. The 4th A. C. [Army
                                    Cavalry] is in front of us and are fighting Briskly two miles south of here. We are
                                    about 20 miles from 
                                        Atlanta
                                     with Chattahoochee River between here and Ata.
                        This is a very hilly country and no improvements nearer than ten miles, except
                                    Dallas. It is a county seat. There is 7 houses in the town, and none nearer than 7
                                    miles to it. Our horses havent been fed since the 27th and no prospect of getting
                                    forage yet. Johnston has been reinforced, and it is thought that the Big fight will
                                    be here among the Hills.23 Last night at 12 oclock they charged
                                    our intire right wing (about 7 miles of Yankees) five times. But were repulsed with
                                    heavy loss. The firing was the heaviest I have ever heard and lasted two hours. Our
                                    loss was light, as our line was protected by Breastworks.
                        We havent heard any news this week. I have wrote more than I intended to when I
                                    commenced. Write often. My respects to all.
                        
                                    yours as ever,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  23 Clark's prediction, that the more serious fighting would take
                        place in the 
                            Georgia
                         hills, was right. He goes on, in letters of June 15 and 28, to detail the battles
                        that took place at Kennesaw Mountain.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 72nd Ind. Vols. Company K
                              Carter's Station, Ga.
                           
                                    June 5th [1864]
                                
                        Affectionate Parents,
                        I take the present opportunity to write you a few lines to inform you how we are
                                    getting along. It has been raining for the last three days all the time. But has
                                    cleared off now. I received your letter of May 23rd & 24th today. I hadent
                                    heard from you for some time. So you may know I was anxious to hear from you. Realy
                                    glad to learn that Unkle Jonas & Aunt are interested in my welfare. But
                                    would be better pleased with a letter from them.
                        It seems that our letter to The Crescent is better understood at
                                    home than it was in K. We had a big time here about it. J. J. Williams was going to
                                    have Al. Clark tarred & feathered. But couldent get the old Soldiers to help
                                    them. They construed the letter to say that Valandigham was a Martyr & one
                                    of our best statesmen. The letter dident mention his name. We couldent indorse
                                        him.24 So we wrote to The Crescent an
                                    explanation to the ideas expressed in that letter. I am a Douglas Democrat &
                                    will never vote for the mongrel, kinky headed abolitionists. I detest them.
                        There is quite a strong element here that will support the worthy O. P. Morton for
                                    goverer of Ind. again. But I cant see it in that light. I would like to see him
                                    protect civil law, and not nod his head to every mob that is raided by the freedom
                                    Shriekers.
                        I think the war will end within 12 months. Unkle Sam is putting forth his mightiest
                                    efforts in this Campaign, and will either crush the Confederacy, or faint with
                                    exertion. If the present movement dont crush the South, we cant conquer them. So if
                                    we fail with this their independence will be acknowledged.
                        If I was to choose between the Politics of the trio, U. S. Grant, A. L. & J.
                                    C. F., I would support the first. But I dont think we need a millitary President. I
                                    would [not?] vote for A. L. because he is not consistent. 
                                        Fremont
                                     is the most consistent of the three, But he want to have the Nigger
                                    head & Shoulders above every thing else.25
                        
                        
                           
                              24 Clement Laird Vallandigham, an 
                                            Ohio
                                         Democrat and member of the Knights of the Golden Circle, was
                                        banished to the Confederacy for his vocal opposition to Lincoln, but was later
                                        ejected from the South as well for speaking out against Jefferson Davis.
                                        Vallandigham moved to 
                                            Canada
                                         but returned to the 
                                            United States
                                         in June, 1864, to speak at the Democratic convention, an event
                                        noted in Clark's letter of June 28. It has been speculated, for obvious
                                        reasons, that he may have served as the prototype for Everett Hale's
                                            Man Without a Country. Boatner, The Civil War
                                            Dictionary, 864.
                           
                              25 Some Radical Republicans thought their party would have
                                        a better chance of victory in the 1864 election if they ran on a strict
                                        abolitionist platform. Union Generals John C. Fremont and Ulysses S. Grant were
                                        both considered in this light, although the party finally decided to renominate
                                        Lincoln, who won in a landslide. Grant, of course, went on to win the
                                        presidential elections of 1868 and 1872. Eric Foner and John A. Garraty, eds.,
                                            The Reader's Companion to American History (
                                            Boston
                                        , 1991), 338.
                        
                        
                        Weekly Report
                        
                           May 31st, on picket.
                           Wednesday, June 1st went to Burnt Hickory, 7 miles.
                           Thursday, June 2nd went to Carter's Station, 12 miles.
                           Friday, June 3rd in Camp. Wrote to M. B.
                           Saturday, June 4th in Camp. Wrote to Sam Cade.
                           Sunday, June 5th in Camp. Rec. a letter from home. Wrote
                           No. 21 home … to be continued.
                        
                        I have nothing important to write. We cant get any papers here. I wish you would send
                                    me some stray coppies of The Crescent or Enquirer. I would like to know Both sides
                                    of the Beautiful Slavery question.
                        You need not fear that Miss M. S. will lead me hear much from me. I have several
                                    intelligent Lady Correspondents that is worth my time to write to, and they write
                                    intelligent & interesting letters. They are worth reading and are not mere
                                    repetitions of Love, etc. Give my respects to the many that may enquire. My love to
                                    you. Write as often as convenient.
                        
                                    Your Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                        A couple of postage stamps if you please.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Kirkendall's + [Cross]Roads,
                              Cherokee Co., Ga. Wednesday,
                           
                                    June 15th, '64
                                
                        Kind Parents,
                        Having been stirred out of bed early this morning, I have now a little leisure to pen
                                    you a few lines to inform you of the news. As we come here last friday, and put up
                                    Earth works, we have been laying quiet since then till about two oclock this
                                    morning. The Rebs throwed a heavy collumn against Long's Brig. on our
                                    right. (It is the 2nd Brigade in the 2nd Div. Cavalry. Minty's Brig. is the
                                    1st and Wilder's the 3d Brigade in the 2nd Cum Div.) We piled out of Bed
                                    & went over to assist Long. But he dident need us so we were held as his
                                    reserve till the Rebs fell back, which they did at 6 this morning. The fight lasted
                                    four hours. Long lost 5 killed and 18 wounded. His loss was light as he was
                                    intrenched. The Enemy left 40 dead on the field, & if their wounded is in
                                    the same Ratio, their loss is not less than two hundred, as we took 45 prisoners.
                                    All is quiet in front of our Division now. But I can hear the Booming of Cannons off
                                    South west, very rapid firing. The Enemy are growing restless and are trying to
                                    break our lines. It is generaly believed that the fate of 
                                        Atlanta
                                     will be decided here in the Altoona [Allatoona] Mts. We are about 20
                                    miles from 
                                        Atlanta
                                     in a northwest course. We are 7 miles from Acworth, east & 10
                                    miles due west of Marietta, and 6 miles from Lovingood's Bridge, across
                                        Chattahoochi River. It is the only wagon Bridge within 60
                                    miles of 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . Johnson's Army is all on 
                                    this side of the River, & if he makes a stand on this side, he will be in a
                                    tight place if defeated.26
                        
                        Grant is reported within 7 miles of 
                                        Richmond
                                    . John Morgan is reported to be in Ky. at Mt. Sterling with 4000 picked
                                    men. But it is rumored this morning that he has been awfully whipped by Gen.
                                    Burbridge. I think Morgan is gone by the Board.27
                        
                        It has rained every day since the 2nd till yesterday. But has cleared of cool, and
                                    looks as if we would have fine weather. Capt. Mc.[Intire] has resigned, &
                                    Geo. W. Brown is now Senior Officer of K. He dont know much military, but he is
                                    attentive to the comfort of his men.
                        There was 25 of us sent out on a Recognisance to Canton 5 miles above Lovingood
                                    Bridge on the 13th. The Enemy had a picket post there which we charged and drove
                                    down the River. We capured a Rebel mail, and 5 Soldiers, and as many Conf.
                                    newspapers as could be put in a wagon bed. The latest ones was of the 11th. They
                                    said Lee was sick in 
                                        Richmond
                                    , that Grant was 7 miles from there, and could get no farther, and that
                                    Johnston's Army was just drawing us from our Base of supplies to annihilate
                                    Sherman's Army. Their Trans. 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Dispatches state that Banks had surrendered to Marmaduke, &
                                    that Kirby Smith had Steele's Army cut off and Steele proposed a surrender
                                    if they treat his Black Soldiers as prisoners of War. Price would not accept the
                                    proposal, & it was thought that he would make an unconditional Surrender
                                    inside of 48 hours.28 Thus you can see how they deceive their
                                    people into 
                              
                                 26 After retreating across the Etowah, Johnston took
                                            up a strong position on Kennesaw Mountain near
                                            Marietta. Sherman's army had been recently reinforced, and it
                                            slowly pursued Johnston to the mountain. McPherson, Atlas of
                                                the Civil War, 174.
                              
                                 27 Confederate General John Hunt Morgan had escaped
                                            from a federal penitentiary in 
                                                Ohio
                                             and had been placed in command of the Department of Southwest 
                                                Virginia
                                            . Morgan reached Mount Sterling on June 8 and attacked a
                                            garrison, forcing its surrender. Burbridge surprised Morgan's
                                            troops on June 9 and managed to break up the brigade, but Morgan's
                                            men continued their destruction in 
                                    Lexington, Georgetown
                                 , and Cynthiana, 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . On June 12 Burbridge finally caught up with Morgan again and
                                            forced him to retreat to 
                                                Virginia
                                            . The Cynthiana raid proved to be Morgan's last; he was
                                            killed by Federal troops at Greeneville, 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , on September 4, 1864. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant
                                            General, I, 205-207. For more on Morgan's raids and incarceration
                                            see Tatum, "‘Please Send Stamps,"’
                                            Part III, 291n.
                              
                                            
                                    28 In December, 1862, Confederate President Jefferson
                                                Davis had issued a proclamation ruling that all captured soldiers from
                                                the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Colored Troops (USCT) be turned over to state authorities
                                                who would try the soldiers for inciting insurrection or for actual
                                                insurrection. Every Confederate state had laws that mandated the death
                                                penalty for both those crimes. The arrangement was less popular than it
                                                might have been because the USCT included not just black troops but
                                                white officers as well; some Confederate commanders fought under black
                                                flags, a symbol that they would spare the lives of the colored troops in
                                                exchange for surrender.
                                            In the end, the Confederacy amended its practice of killing all USCT
                                                soldiers and instead instituted a policy by which only the white
                                                officers would be executed while the black troops would be enslaved. The
                                                policy backfired; the knowledge that white officers were willing to put
                                                their lives on the line for their black subordinates made the black
                                                troops all the more willing to fight for the Union. Glatthaar, Forged in Battle, 201-204.
                                        
                           
                                     believing that they are victorious at every
                                    point, and that at the two great control points they are falling back on their
                                    Dignity (in other words, Stragedy). My Diary:
                        wrote No. 21 home on the 5th.
                        June 6th, on picket.
                        June 7th, in camp, rec. two letters one from Jane Hays & no. 15 from home,
                                    answered the first.
                        June 8th, went to Acworth, 12 miles.
                        Thursday June 9th, on a scout to Big Shanty, lost 5 men wounded out of the Regt.,
                                    fell back to Acworth, received a letter from Alma 
                                        Jordan
                                    . She is teaching the Indian mission at Sac & Fox Agency.
                        June 10th, marched to Kirkendall's X Road, 7 miles.
                        June 11th, on a scout to Canton.
                        June 14th, on picket. I believe I have wrote all the news.
                        We move at 12 M., dont know where to. Write often. You made quite a spech on the
                                    Tracy land. I am but a Boy But I can appreciate the benefit of Education, &
                                    I hope that with your help George will be made a Schollar, and a man.
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of 72nd Ind. near Big Shantee [Big Shanty], 
                                    Cobb
                        County, Georgia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June the 28th '64
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        This (if you get it) will inform you where we are, and how we are getting along. In
                                    the 1st place, I will tell you that K goes on picket at noon, and it is now 10 1/2,
                                    so I have But little time to write. I received yours bearing date of June 12th last
                                    night. Glad to hear of your good health. You had not told me who you sold the Tracy
                                    farm to. How far from Thorntown is that land and what direction, and have you a
                                    notion to move there and make George a 
                                        Boone
                                     [county] Aristocrat?29
                        
                        I saw a copy of The Crescent last night that contained the
                                    proceeding of the Democratic Convention of the 16th. I have heard some gay comments
                                    on it by some of our Philanthropic fellow Soldiers. From the committees &
                                    delegations they appointed, I think, the Democracy are going to do their duty. I
                                    heard a fellow say last 
                              
                                 29 Having sold the parcel of land that William Allen
                                            Clark calls the "Tracy farm," David C. Clark is
                                            considering the purchase of another piece of property, recommended by one of
                                            Clark's older brothers. "The farm of which I spoke to
                                            you," writes Isaac Newton Clark to his father, "will be
                                            sold at public sale on the 8 day of July—I found a good farm 120
                                            acres—90 cleared—tolerably good
                                            buildings—two young orchards—roads on two sides, 2
                                            miles from 
                                                Franklin
                                            , new school house & church, $40 per acre-in
                                            sight of R.R." Isaac Newton Clark to David C. Clark, June 14, 1864.
                                            William A. Clark Papers, Lilly Library (Indiana University, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            ).
                           
                                     night that that meeting was a meeting of
                                    Traitors and that O. P. Morton would be Justifiable in using millitary force to
                                    prevent that party from making any organization. But men here will do anything for
                                    the sake of Official Notice.
                        We have now drove Johnston to his last ditch (or rather he has drawn us to the range
                                    of his Batteries), and now the fighting has indeed commenced. Johnson has fortified
                                        Kenesaw Mountains, 1, a peak about 1,500 ft. high, and has
                                    said that he would hold it or die in the attempt. We have been fighting, battering,
                                    and digging for the last 15 days, and in that time have drove them four miles. Our
                                    lines are now at the foot of the mountain, and the Enemy cant depress their guns
                                    enough to hurt our men. But it looks like madness to attempt to charge on the
                                    Enemies works. After they start up, there is no place that they can halt without
                                    being under the enemies guns. I saw a Deserter this morning that come through the
                                    lines last night. He says that Johnston has 100,000 effective men. We are camped
                                    near a high hill. I was on the hill last night, and looking southeast, I could see
                                    the Cars running to & from Marietta (Johnston's Hd. Qrs.) and
                                    looking the opposite direction I could see the Yankee Cars coming to and from Big
                                    Shantee, Sherman's Hd. Qrs. The two stations are only four miles apart.30
                        
                        We have had five men wounded in K in the last week. They are John J. Williams wounded
                                    in left arm severely. Sandford Bowen was struck on left hip with a shell from one of
                                    our own guns. His leg is badly Bruised, but no bones broken. Thomas Hughes in right
                                    arm very slight. H. S. Kreisher was struck in the shoulder by a spent ball. But it
                                    only stunned him a short time.
                        I am getting tired of this Campaign. We have been either in the Saddle or on the
                                    Skirmish line almost every day since the 10th of May. It is now only eight days till
                                    July, and we are not within 20 miles of 
                                        Atlanta
                                    , poor chance to end the war on that great day [July 4, 1864].
                        Havent heard from 
                                        Richmond
                                     for some time. The last we heard Grant had crossed James
                                        River for Petersburgh.
                        This is my last sheet of paper, and I will have to borrow an Envelop for it, and our
                                    Sutler is back at 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     without any goods. I wish you would send me some paper &
                                    envelop and Stamps. We cant get anything of the kind here.
                        I received a letter from Jennie 
                                        Jordan
                                     last night. They were all well. Alma is teaching at Sac. & Fox
                                    Agency. I think I may be proud of my Relatives in Clinton. They are so affectionate.
                                    I have received four letters from Relatives in Clinton in 1864 (beside those from
                                        
                              
                                 30 Sherman, frustrated by the strong position Johnston
                                            held on Kennesaw Mountain, staged a frontal assault on
                                            the Confederate general. The bold move did not help advance the Union Army,
                                            however, and Sherman's army, suffering many casualties, fell back
                                            to its previous position. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil
                                            War, 174.
                           
                                     parents & Brothers) and Stephen Erehart
                                    wrote all of them. I have never received the mark of a pen from any of them except
                                    him & Dave Clark. I think they have treated me very unkindly.
                        It is almost noon so I will have to quit. Please write soon and often. My respect to
                                    all enquiring friends. I hope you will have a good time harvesting. 
                                        Wish
                                     I was there. No more to day.
                        
                                    your affectionate Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Georgia
                                 
                              
                              Camp near Rosswell Factory
                           
                                    Tuesday, July 7th '64
                                
                        Aff Parents,
                        I take this opportunity to pen you a few lines, not in response to any late letter
                                    from home. But to assure you that I am still spared to write you. I have but little
                                    news to write, and it is to hot to write any how.
                        On the night of the 3d we moved off at 8 oclock to the right, and at day light
                                    entered Marietta. The Rebels rearguard being 1/2 miles south of town. We followed
                                    them 5 miles that day, & captured 1200 prisoners, & two cannon. On
                                    the 4th we drove them from there lines of ditches & took 300 prisoners. On
                                    the night of the 4th our Comp was detailed to guard our wagon train back to Big
                                    Shanty. We went back to Kenesaw Mountain & camped there
                                    two days. I went up to the summit & had a splendid view of surroundings.
                                    This was the mt. that Johnson stick to so tenaciously. But Sherman absolutely dug
                                    him out.
                        The Rebels works was 5 miles long. Their right resting on the R.R., their left on
                                    Pine Mt., Ken—being their center. They had 1st a line of stockade made
                                    with trees cut down with tops pointing frontward, & trimed down to a level
                                    of two ft. from the ground. 40 ft. in the rear of these was a ditch 12 ft. wide
                                    & five deep & a line of sharp pointed rails planted in it, the
                                    points being 3 ft. from the ground. The dirt from the ditch was thrown up in the
                                    rear of the ditch forming a breastwork 5 ft. high & so thick that it was
                                    Bomb proof. On the top of this bank was laid large logs with an opening between them
                                    & the dirt of four inches. The crack answered the purpose of port holes. 40
                                    ft. behind this line is the Embrasures for their Artillery. They had 12 Embrasures,
                                    each mounting two 24 pound Rifle guns. The wings are 24 ft. high & 25 ft.
                                    thick. The front is 18 ft. high & 30 ft. thick. The portholes are in the
                                    shape of an arch, are four ft. wide 5 high. These were the mark for our gunners
                                    & some of them are almost razed to the ground. Our Inft. rest their left on
                                    the R.R., being opposed to the Rebel Right-Hood's Corps. The 15th &
                                    16th Corps under McPherson were opposed to the Rebel center, Polk's Corps.
                                    The 4th & 14th Corps under Thomas were opposed to the Rebel Left,
                                    (Hardee's Corps), so that the 12th, 19th, 20th, & 23d Corps under
                                    Hooker & Scofield were free to work on the right flank.  They moved around within two miles of the River and 800
                                    yards of the R.R. before Johnson knew it. When he found it out, he moved out for
                                    safety double quick. We are now 8 miles from 
                                        Atlanta
                                     & are guarding a Bridge across Chattahoochee.31
                        
                        Marietta is a beautiful town, the county seat of Cobb. Co. It had 3,462 inhabitants
                                    in 1860. It is the home of Alex. H. Stephens, Vice President of Rebellion. We havent
                                    rec—any mail for four of five days. But will get one to day. Grant is
                                    Reported in 
                                        Richmond
                                    . I wish you would send me a few stamps. I guess I have wrote all the
                                    news. Write often. Give my respects to all. Excuse poor writing for I have written
                                    in haste. Hoping to hear from you soon.
                        
                                    I remain your Affectionate Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Georgia
                                 
                              
                              In Camp near New Town, Cobb Co.
                           
                                    Saturday, July 16th '64
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        This sultry morning affords me an opportunity to write you a few lines to inform you
                                    where we are & how we are getting along. I hope you wont scold me for
                                    neglecting to write (this is the 2nd July letter). I would write oftener. But paper
                                    is scarce. Envelops scarcer and ink is played out. I am writing now with Blackberry
                                    Juice & it flows so poor that I can hardly write with it.
                        Well, we dident celebrate the 4th in 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . But we drove the Johnnies from Kennesaw
                                        Mountain.32 Our Brig. crossed
                                        Chattahoochee River on the 9th. We waded it. The water
                                    reaching almost to our arms & the Rebs was firing on us from the South Bank.
                                    But fortunately none of our Boys were hurt. Two Rebs killed & 4 wounded, 7
                                    captured. We formed our lines on the Bluffs, 1/2 mile from the River & held
                                    them till we were relieved by an Infantry Division. Since then we have been resting
                                    and recruiting our horses until yesterday.
                        Major Biggs, our Ad@. Gen'l, was ordered to make a Reconnoisance toward 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . He was to take one Regt, so he chose the 72nd. We went within 7 miles
                                    of the City, drove in their pickets and after makeing all the topographical
                                    observations possible, we returned to camp. We were on a high hill in plain view of 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . We could see the cars running into the Depots. We could see their
                                        
                              
                                 31 As Sherman was staging his doomed frontal assault
                                            on Johnston, Union Colonel Hiram Scofield's Army of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             flanked Johnston on the left. While Scofield diverted the
                                            Confederates’ attention, Sherman was able partially to surround
                                            Johnston and drive him back to the outskirts of 
                                                Atlanta
                                            . The Union lost about 2,000 men during this battle, while the
                                            Confederacy lost only 270. Ibid.; Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 452-53.
                              
                                 32 On July 17 Johnston was relieved of his command and
                                            replaced by James B. Hood. President Jefferson Davis, displeased with
                                            Johnston's failure at Kennesaw Mountain, was
                                            reportedly not confident that he would make a concerted effort to keep 
                                                Atlanta
                                             from falling into Union hands. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil
                                            War, 176.
                           
                                     lines of Breastworks & could see a
                                    collumn of Cavalry moving to our left, so we thought it best to vacate.
                        I havent heard any news from the eastern Departments for some time. But hope all is
                                    right. Health is very good. We are ordered to move in the morning with three days
                                    Rations and 100 Rounds of Ammunition. Dont know where we are going But on to 
                                        Richmond
                                    .
                        I received a letter from you a few days since dated June 22nd, which informed me of
                                    matters in Clinton. I havent saw the 4th Cavalry this year. I heard a few days since
                                    that Mat Miller was wounded at Red 
                                        Clay
                                    , Tenn. and is now in Hospital at 
                                        Knoxville
                                    . We are from 10 to 15 miles from the main Army all the time, so we hear
                                    but little news. We are camped 22 miles above the R.R. Bridge and on the north side
                                    of the River. We are 24 miles almost due east of 
                                        Atlanta
                                     and within 12 miles of the Milledgeville & Augusta R.R. We are
                                    camped on the 
                                        Richmond
                                     & Natchez Nation Roads. It was cut out for millitary purposes
                                    by order of Gen'l Jackson.
                        It is 23 months today since we swore to obey our Officers, so we have but 13 yet to
                                    stay. But that is longer to stay than I expected when I enlisted. I believe that we
                                    will have an opportunity to volunteer after our present enlistment expires.
                        We have taken possesion of a large territory this Summer. But the Rebel army is not
                                    whipped and before we are safe we must break Johnston's power.
                        Well Mother, let me tell you what I had for dinner. (Billy Grissmer bunks with me.)
                                    He went out foraging this A.M. & brought in a lot of potatoes, a couple of
                                    chickens & some flour. So I thought we would have a gay old potpie. I fixed
                                    the fixens and cooled the fixens and Bill & me eat the fixens &
                                    pronounced them better than Ind. can produce. In fact I have become adebt in the
                                    pastry line.
                        We havent had any mail since the 10th But expect one tonight. I believe I have
                                    scribbled enough for one time. Tell Brothers of mine to write. My Respects to
                                    friends. Write soon and often. No more at present.
                        
                                    But remain your Affectionate Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                        P.S. If Geo. W. Clark will send me a letter I will read it and
                                    answer— W. A. Clark
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp near 
                                    Atlanta, Georgia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 26th [1864]
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I hope you will excuse me for not writing oftener when I tell you that this is the
                                    first day we have rested since the 17th Inst. I am well. Hope this will find you the
                                    Same. I am very sleepy having been in the saddle five consecutive nights. We have
                                    just returned from a Raid on the 
                                        Richmond
                                     & Atla—R.R. We struck the Road 41  miles east of 
                                        Atlanta
                                     at 
                                        Covington
                                    . Burnt the Bridge across Yellow R., tore up 5 miles of track. Burnt 43
                                    Cars & two Locomotives. (2000 Bales of Cotton, 3000 Bushs of Corn, 15,000
                                    lbs of pork, Captured 2000 horses, 250 Prisoners, & 700 Niggers.) Our loss
                                    was 2 killed and one captured.
                        We are now 1 1/2 mile from At— There has been some desperate fighting here
                                    with varied success. Gen'l. McPherson is killed.33 Our
                                    men have Buried 1800 of the Enemies dead. We are ordered to march in the morning
                                    with 5 Rations, another Raid.
                        I received a package of envelop last night from Rossville—dont know who
                                    sent them, But expect it was Jonas. I am very thankful anyway for I was out.
                        All is quiet to day. No news from GranT. Washington reported to be in the hands of
                                    the Rebels, dont believe it. Health is good. We cant get any mail. Why is it? Dont
                                    you folks write, or do the post masters fail in discharging their duties? I havent
                                    heard from you since the 11th. Write oftener. I wish you would send me some Stamps.
                                    No more today.
                        
                                    Your Affectionate Son,
                                    Allen
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Battle line War 
                                    Atlanta
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday Evening Aug. 7th [1864]
                                
                        To all at home,
                        I embrace the present opportunity of writing to you to let you know that I am still
                                    living, although rather unwell. I have been quite sick for two or three days. But am
                                    well now or am doing duty. I am quite weak yet, had Something like Billious fever.
                                    There is a great deal of sickness here now, caused by fatigue, loss of sleep, and
                                    the Impurity of the atmosphere. There are thousands of dead horses & mules
                                    scattered over fields & woods between our lines & the Johnnies,
                                    & they make the air almost sickening. And the water we use is Branch water.
                                    It contains all the filth incident to Camp, so you may guess how it tastes.
                        Dont scold about this writing for it is done with wet gun powder, and it goes by
                                    flashes any way you try it. My pen is almost played out too. I wish you would send
                                    me a few good steel pens. Our Sutler has played out.
                        I received a letter from you on the 2nd dated July 14th. also 1 from Jonas of July
                                    17th. 1 from I. N dated July 15th. Very thankful for their kindness, But cant answer
                                    them now for want of writing material. I have nothing of the kind except Envelop. I
                                    sometimes think I will quit writing. I have asked for some stamps time &
                                    again, and get two per month, poor chance to one that has many fair friends who
                                    wants to hear from him. Stamps cant be purchased 
                              
                                 33 Union general James Birdseye McPherson, commander
                                            of the Army of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , was killed on July 22 in the Battle of 
                                                Atlanta
                                            .
                           
                                     here, so I must drop those correspondents that
                                    I cant write to without prepaid postage, and if I quit one—I will quit
                                    all. I am out of humor tonight. I have 12 letters unanswered for want of stamps,
                                    etc. and have followed the pernicious system of borrowing till I am out on that
                                    score.
                        When I get a reply to this I hope to learn how I am to keep acquainted with affairs
                                    in the Civil World. I made some statements on politics to — and he
                                    replied that I was an Abolitionist and not posted. Now how am I to keep posted
                                    unless I have the material to write for the requisite information?
                        I have but little news to write. We are 1 mile from At— and getting no
                                    closer fast. [We] have been fighting day & night for ten days. Our loss is
                                    heavy, the Rebel loss heavier, so said.34 No news from Grant.
                                    Stoneman's Cavalry reported captured, cant think it.35
                                    But nothing impossible here.
                        I talked to H. Mohler to day. He is well. Also Dick Smith, Ben Caloway, & L.
                                    Davis. I hope to hear from you soon. No more to night.
                        
                                    Your Soldier Boy,
                                    Allen36
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 5 
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville, Kentucky
                                 ,
                           
                                    Christmas Morning
                                    [1864]
                        
                        Dear Parents,
                        I will now attempt to pen you a few lines to inform you of my whereabouts &
                                    howabouts. I cant write you a long letter for it is raining, and is so damp that I
                                    cant keep my paper dry. I received a letter from you a few days since dated Dec.
                                    9th. Its the only word Ive received from you since I left home.
                        We are going to start to 
                                        Nashville
                                     Wednesday morning. We shipped our stoves & camp Equipage this
                                    A.M. And we will face a bad time to travel, if it dont turn cold. But Im all right.
                                    I have a black horse 17 hands high & peculiarly fitted for wading the mud.
                        I am going to get the Photographs of all my Comrades & send them to you to
                                    keep for me. I send two of them in this.
                        I received a letter from Alma, a few minutes ago. They are all well but Unkle. He is
                                    sick. But not seriously.
                        We are having gay times today. The Citizens are preparing a dinner for us.
                        
                           
                              34 During the Battle of 
                                            Atlanta
                                         (July 22, 1864) there were 3,722 Union casualties to 8,000
                                        Confederates. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 30.
                           
                              35 Union General George Stoneman was captured, along with
                                        seven hundred of his men, while trying to get to the Andersonville prison to
                                        liberate Union prisoners. He was released a few months later. Ibid., 801, 803.
                           
                              36 Clark was given a furlough at some point during the
                                        fall of 1864. Although there is a break here in his letters to his family, it is
                                        unlikely that his furlough lasted as long as this break would indicate. He was
                                        in Rossville for the November 8 elections.
                        
                        
                        
                           WILLIAM ALLEN CLARK'S DISCHARGE PAPERS
                           
                           Courtesy Mary E. Voss.
                        
                        
                        In regard to the Coupon on that $100 note, I dont know what disposition
                                    you can make of it. But of course I would like the greatest possible renumeration
                                    for it.
                        I agree with you that it would be rather unpleasant to have dances in the ware house
                                    this cold weather. But it would be more pleasant than shivering around a cold
                                    campfire.
                        There has been several of our Boys home on frenches [absent without leave] since we
                                    came here. But I couldent have the heart to french after being home so long.
                        I saw Henry Logan the first of this week. He had come down to see his son George in
                                    Hospital here.
                        We have cheering news from the front. The Rebel army is demoralized. I have seen
                                    7,000 prisoners go through here en route to Camp Douglas & Rock
                                        island.37
                        
                        You must excuse poor writing. My fingers are so cold I can hardly hold my pen. Write
                                    soon & often. My respects to enquiring friends. I remain your Affectionate
                                    Son,
                        
                                    Allen
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Munfordville, Ky.
                           
                                    January 3d 1865
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        While our wagons are being ferried across the River, I will try to pen you a few
                                    lines to let you know that I am still able to do justice to my rations of Hardtack,
                                    etc. I am not certain when or where this will be mailed. But as I have a few leisure
                                    moments that could be spent in no better way.
                        I rec. a letter at 
                                        Bardstown
                                     dated Dec. 23d written by you, being the 2nd letter I have got from
                                    home since I left. I sent a Photograph of my Cousin who is in the 11th 
                                        Kansas
                                     Regt. to you sometime ago. Have you ever received it?
                        We have been marching six days. But the roads are so bad, & the weather so
                                    cold that we are only making 13 miles per day. I have froze my fingers &
                                    toes. But not very bad. My fingers are too sore to write. This is the hardest march
                                    we have ever made, and I hope we will never have to march again in such cold
                                    weather.
                        I have a little touch of the Jaundice. But I guess I will get over it before it gets
                                    me down.
                        I have no news to write except that I saw 2,500 prisoners pass on the cars Just now
                                    enroute for 
                                        Louisville
                                    . We havent received any mail this year. But we are expecting one now.
                                    New Years day was the coldest I have experienced South of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    .
                        
                           
                              37 Union General Sherman had taken Savannah, 
                                            Georgia
                                        ; General George Thomas had successfully defended 
                                            Nashville
                                        . Thomas reported taking 4,462 Confederate prisoners. Rather than
                                        parole the Rebel troops, the Union Army sent them to prisons at Camp Douglas and
                                        Rock Island, 
                                            Illinois
                                        . Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 582.
                        
                        
                        The Bugles are sounding, and I must mount, so good day. Write soon, often, &
                                    plenty of it. Tell Jonas, George, & A. F. to write. My respects to friends.
                        
                                    I remain your Affectionate Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                    
                              K. Company 72nd Ind. Regt.
                              1st Brig. 2nd Cav. Div.
                              Army of the Cumberland
                           
                                
                        Dont laugh at my Grammar for I have written in haste.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Edgefield, Tenn.
                           
                                    January 9th 1865
                                
                        Kind Parents,
                        Yours of Jan. 2nd was received last night. Glad to hear that you enjoy good health.
                                    We arrived here last night and will remain till the 12th. We are then going for 
                                        Mississippi
                                     or 
                                        Alabama
                                    . We are camped on the bank of the Cumberland, 4 miles above 
                                        Nashville
                                    . We have just completed the most disagreeable march we have ever made.
                                    On the night of the 7th, we went in camp with rain pouring on us. The next morning
                                    at daylight, the Mercury was 9 degrees below Zero. So you may guess how pleasant it
                                    was to start out such a morning.
                        I have no news to write. I havent seen a paper of later date than the 2nd. I sent you
                                    a photograph of my Cousin belonging to the 11th 
                                        Kansas
                                     Regt. while at 
                                        Louisville
                                    . Have you received it? I will send all my old letters home. You will
                                    please put them in a safe place, so I can get them when I return. I dont fancy the
                                    Idea of burning letters. Write often.
                        
                                    Your Son,
                                    Allen
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        George W. Clark
                        Sir, Your 8 oclock Edition of Dec. 30 last has been received and Judging from the
                                    pencil marks father has made in it, it was not as well fixed up as it might have
                                    been. However it speaks well of your ability as a writer. You mustent forget to
                                    commence all proper names with a capital letter. Sentences the same, and always make
                                    a little black spot at the end of a sentence. Its not hard to guess why you like the
                                    school so well. You have begun to think of waiting on such pieces as Emma Siegfried,
                                    etc, consequently you esteem the School Miss very highly. Oh yes, how do you get
                                    along with Em. Withers? In 7 months from to day my time will be out. Then goodbye to
                                    Soldiering. It is raining so I guess I will quit for this time. Write soon and all
                                    the news. Let me know how much time a man will gain in 60 years rising 30 minutes
                                    earlier each day, allowing 365 1/4 days to the year. Work it yourself. Send me the
                                    work and explain the rule by which you solved the example.
                        
                                    I am Your Affectionate Bro.,
                                    Allen
                                
                        
                        inclosed is two letters for mother to put with those I've already sent
                                    her. It wont do any good for you to read them.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of 72nd Vols near
                              Smith's Landing, 
                                    Alabama
                                 
                              
                           
                                    February 1st 1865
                                
                        Kind Parents,
                        Yours of Jan. 16th (No. 2) was received this P.M. and very welcomely for we had
                                    received no mail since the 19th. ult. We arrived heare on the 28th (Just one month
                                    after leaving 
                                        Louisville
                                    ). We were ordered to put up winter Quarters, and we have a very
                                    comfortable log Cabin 8 ft. wide, 12 ft. long, 6 ft. high with a fancy fire place in
                                    it. W. Grissmer, Joe Lough, & F. Jackson Shares its comfort with me. We have
                                    been living on parched Corn but thanks to Unkle Sam we drew our Rations of Hardtact
                                    etc. today. We have been without bread or meat since the 24th till today. And have
                                    had to drill in the forenoon & work on Stables the rest of the day. We have
                                    joined the Cavalry Corps. commanded by Gen'l Wilson, and he swears that he
                                    will have the horses sheltered if the men have to lay out in the weather.38
                        
                        We are camped twelve miles east of Eastport and 9 miles Southwest of Florence. We are
                                    on the north bank of Tenn. River. This is the most desolate
                                    Country I have seen in Dixie. There is nothing to be seen but Rocks &
                                    Pinetrees. The weather is very pleasant, almost like May. I am not prepared to say
                                    how long we will remain here. But think we wont move Camp before the first of March,
                                    as several of the Officers have rec. furloughs for 40 days. And you know an Army
                                    cant do much without Shoulder Straps to back it. There is some talk of a truce for
                                    60 days. But the Johnnies dont know it, for they shell every Boat that passes either
                                    up or down.
                        I would like to be at Westpoint39 long enough to help Capt. Hardy
                                    convince Jonas that O is the only complete System of Music.40
                                    Well, George, I have a good joke on you. (Miss T-are you going to singing to night?
                                    I dont know. I will if George Clark will go 
                              
                                 38 Union General James Harrison Wilson commanded the
                                            Cavalry Corps of the Military Division of the 
                                                Mississippi
                                            . Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 930-31.
                              
                                 39 West Point was a district school adjacent to the
                                            Clark family property in Ross Township. See Tatum,
                                            ‘"Please Send Stamps,‘" Part 111,
                                            316n.
                              
                                 40 Clark is most likely referring to a system of
                                            writing music known as shape-note hymnody, which substitutes shaped notes
                                            for round notes on a five-lined staff. Shaped notes were common in hymnals
                                            of the South and the Midwest in the nineteenth century. This method of
                                            notation is "intended to help singers with little musical expertise
                                            to sing at sight without having to recognize pitches on the staff or
                                            understand the key system." H. Wiley Hitchcock and Stanley Sadie,
                                            eds., The New Grove Dictionary of American Music (
                                                New York
                                            , 1986), 201.
                           
                                     with me. He is a real pretty &
                                    intelligent little fellow). I dont know that it will Mollie [?] Davie [?] to quit
                                    dancing. But I have heard that she has quit going to Balls or Parties.
                        Mr. Reed has certainly sold his farm very well. If you could get such a price do you
                                    think you would take it and Change your base of Supplies to Thorntown?
                        I received a letter from I. N. this P.M. He was holding a meeting at 
                                        Franklin
                                    . I also received two letters from persons too dedious [tedious?] to
                                    mention. There is five men to be furloughed from K this week, but not me for
                                    I've done had mine. I heard to night that Wil Gaddis is dead. We have good
                                    health, not a sick man in K.
                        I wish you would send me a packet of paper. My stock of writing material is almost
                                    exhausted, and we cant get stationery here for money or love. — I would
                                    like to have some stamps too. Since coming here I have sold nearly all of mine to
                                    Boys that have had no chance to get any, and consequently am out myself. I guess I
                                    have written all the news, so I will quit for tonight.
                        Write often, oftener, oftenest. A few lines from George will be acceptable.
                        
                                    I remain your Affectionate
                                    Allen Clark.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of 72d Ind. Vols.
                              Smith's Landing, 
                                    Alabama
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Feb. 9th 1865
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        Yours of Jan. 25th was received last night. Glad to hear of your good health. I have
                                    but little news to write. But I am aware that you are always anxious to hear from
                                    me. And that my letters are always welcome, whether long or short.
                        My health is good, and am enjoying life as well as could be expected under existing
                                    Circumstances. We have plenty of Rations. But havent drawn any Clothing since I was
                                    home. My pants are almost played out. But we expect plenty of Clothing in a few
                                    days. My stock of writing materials is almost exhausted, & no possibility of
                                    purchasing anything of the kind here. So I would like for you to send me a lot of
                                    good letter paper, and Stamps. I am not in need of Envelops as I have quite a lot.
                                    This is my last sheet of paper, and I have nary Stamp.
                        I am not able to say how long we will remain here. Our Major thinks we will remain
                                    here 90 days. Oh yes, I am writing with a quill pen of my own make. Aint I an apt
                                    Scholar?
                        Well George, you have not solved that problem according to the rule of Compound
                                    Numbers. The year is 365 days & 6 hours long. (You must remember that the
                                    pupil is supposed to be ignorant of the art of breaking Fractions when he works said
                                    question.) And you in stating the question stated the year at 365 1/4 days instead
                                    of 365 days 6 hours. When you write, let me know if you understand  this logic. I hope you will be a good Singer when I get
                                    home, and I wish you could make the arrangement to get Andy Erehart's
                                    Melodeon. If you can get it for $35, I will pay $25 of it when
                                    I get home.
                        I received a letter from S. S. last night, also a Hickory Shirt from the same.
                        I guess I have written all the news. So I will close for this time. My Compliments to
                                    enquiring friends. Love to A. F., J. D. & Co.
                        
                                    I am your Aff. Son,
                                    Allen
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 5 
                              Camp of 72d Ind. Regt.
                              Smith's Landing Ala.
                           
                                    Sunday, Feb. 19th ‘65
                        
                        Dear Parents,
                        I have waited impatiently all day for the mail with the expectation that it would
                                    bring me a letter from home. It has come at last and nothing for me, so I guess I
                                    will write you a few lines anyhow. We have plenty to eat, to wear & nothing
                                    to do but write, or pitch Horse Shoes.
                        My health is good. Hope this may find you the same. I havent seen a paper of a later
                                    date than the 7th inst. and no news in it. It is rumored that Grant has been
                                    defeated at 
                                        Richmond
                                    , but the report lacks confirmation. Mobile is said to be in possession
                                    of the Yankees.41 The Peace Rumors have all passed off, and left
                                    nary peace for us, but I guess they got plenty of Volunteers while the peace fever
                                    was raging. We havent much confidence in peace being brought about by such men as
                                    old J. P. Blair & Co.42
                        
                        I heard last night that John Mohler had took himself one of the fair maids of
                                    Rossville, but I cant believe it yet. I also heard that Saml [?] Bowen was married
                                    to Mollie Gaddis. The Boys must think that they wont stand any chance if they wait
                                    till we uns all get home. I guess they might as well go it while they are young for
                                    when they get old they'l have to go slow. I wrote to Sam Cade a few days
                                    since. I havent heard from them since I was home, so I concluded I would let them
                                    know that if I wasnt an Abolitionist, I was still laboring in defense of the Star
                                    Spangled Banner.
                        
                           
                              41 Grant was meeting stiff resistance from Rebel forces
                                        but had not been defeated. Mobile did not fall until April 12, 1864.
                           
                              42 Clark was most likely referring to Francis Preston
                                        Blair, who hoped to achieve a peaceful resolution to the Civil War by proposing
                                        that the North and South join forces to throw the French out of Mexico. Although
                                        this "hare-brained Mexican scheme" did nothing to end the war,
                                        it did provoke a meeting on February 3, 1865, between Lincoln and Confederate
                                        negotiators Alexander H. Stephens (vice-president), Robert M. T. Hunter
                                        (president pro tem of the Senate), and John A. Campbell
                                        (assistant secretary of war). The meeting was fruitless since Lincoln would
                                        accept only surrender as a means to end the war. James M. McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era (
                                            New York
                                        , 1988), 821-23.
                        
                        
                        I have no news to write, and its getting too dark for me to write. So good bye for
                                    this time. Write soon.
                        
                                    I remain Your Affectionate Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                        D. C. Clark & Mary M. Clark, please send me a Quarter's worth
                                    of Stamps. W. A. Clark
                     
                  
               
                
            
            APPENDIX
            List of Family Members
            
               
                  David C. Clark (b. 1804)
                  Father
               
               
                  Mary M. Slifer Clark (b. December 10, 1803)*
                  
                  Mother
               
               
                  Elizabeth Clark (b. April 27, 1827)
                  Sister
               
               
                  Augustus F. Clark, A. F. (b. December 28, 1828)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Stephen S. Clark, S. S. (b. December 2, 1831)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Mary Jane Ayres Clark
                  Sister-in-law
               
               
                  Isaac Newton Clark, Newton, I. N. (b. October 13, 1833)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Eliza Jane Clark Cade (b. August 29, 1835)
                  Sister
               
               
                  Sam Cade
                  Brother-in-law
               
               
                  Jonas D. Clark, J. D. (b. September 12, 1837) Tilghman A. H. Clark
                  Brother
               
               
                  (b. July 12, 1840, died at 4 years) David Austin Clark
                  Brother
               
               
                  (b. May 24, 1844, died at 14 months)
                  Twin brother
               
               
                  William Allen Clark (b. May 24, 1844)
                  Brother
               
               
                  George W. Clark, Geo., G. W. (b. March 4, 1851)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Jonas P. Clark
                  Uncle
               
               
                  D. F. Clark
                  Uncle
               
               
                  Alma Jordan
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Jennie Jordan
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Andy Erehart
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Stephen Erehart
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Clark Rhodes
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Cosmas Rhodes
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Jane Stabler
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Luanne Stabler
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Mary Stabler
                  Cousin
               
            
            
               
                  * An alternate spelling of Clark's mother's
                        maiden name is Slipher. Slifer is, however, the spelling used in Clark's family
                    Bible.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Environmental Inequalities: Class, Race, and Industrial Pollution in Gary, Indiana,
                        1945-1980. By Andrew Hurley. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1995. Pp. xviii, 246. Figures, maps, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $39.95; paperbound, $16.95.)
            For the employees of U.S. Steel and other businesses in Gary, Indiana, the likelihood of exposure to
                    unhealthy workplace conditions has always been closely related to race and class. Nevertheless,
                    Andrew Hurley argues, in the relatively compact pre-World War II Gary, these factors mattered little
                    in exposure to pollution at home. After the war, however, as those whites who could afford to do so
                    began to pursue the suburban dream, wealth became an important predictor of exposure to pollutants
                    at home as well as at work. As middle- and upper-income whites moved to communities distant from the
                    sources of industrial pollution, they developed an environmental movement that, with increasing
                    effectiveness, protected their health, the beauty of their neighborhoods, and the values of their
                    homes.
            All but the poorest working-class whites moved out of the most polluted parts of Gary but, facing
                    daily contact with toxins on the job, they focused environmental activism through their unions on
                    workplace conditions. Black workers joined that struggle; but, trapped by lower incomes and housing
                    discrimination in the oldest and dirtiest neighborhoods and by employment discrimination in the most
                    toxic industrial environments, they also fought exposure to pollution through the civil rights
                    movement.
            For a brief period in the late 1960s and early 1970s the three groups coalesced into a powerful
                    multifaceted environmental movement that forced U.S. Steel and other business interests to begin to
                    limit industrial pollutants both inside and outside the factory gates. This coalition developed
                    because a strong economy insulated workers from economic blackmail; a vigorous civil rights movement
                    gave blacks political leverage, including Gary's first black mayor, Richard Hatcher; and
                    white middle- and upper-income environmentalists saw a chance to win important gains through
                    collective action.
            But the coalition was short-lived. Racial tensions and a weakening industrial economy allowed U.S.
                    Steel to undermine effectively black and working-class environmental activism with threats of plant
                    closures and job losses. Nevertheless, middle- and upper-income white environmental activists
                    remained influential, a situation that resulted in the shift of pollution to poor and black  neighborhoods. The shift occurred because air and water
                    pollution controls won by Gary environmentalists accelerated the demand during the 1970s for dump
                    sites for the solid wastes removed from smokestacks and sewers. Middle- and upper-income
                    neighborhoods remained relatively free of such dumps as their residents effectively exercised their
                    economic and political power. Poor whites and African Americans also opposed such dumps in their
                    neighborhoods, but they lacked the clout to force the authorities to police the dumpers effectively.
                    By 1980 many poor and black Gary communities were urban wastelands decimated by toxic dumps and by
                    rising unemployment.
            This book is clearly written, carefully researched, and as a result is a compelling condemnation of
                    the power of industrial capital to shape the human and natural environment to its own end.
                    Gary's poor and black residents, as Hurley makes clear, have been and are dying for a
                    better environment.
            CHARLES F. CASEY-LEININGER teaches
                    American history in the Evening College of the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and is a research analyst for the Children's Defense Fund. He is currently
                    revising his dissertation on the Fair Housing Movement in 
                        Cincinnati
                     for publication.
         
         
            
               One-Room Schools of the Middle West: An Illustrated History. By Wayne E. Fuller.
                    (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1994. Pp. xiv, 139. Illustrations, tables, index. $29.95.)
            In this illustrated volume Wayne E. Fuller continues his contribution to the history of
                    America's rural schooling. His earlier volume, The Old Country Schools: The
                        Story of Rural Education in the Midwest (1982), examined the ways in which rural public
                    schools served as cradles of democratic community life for many Americans. For Fuller, rural
                    one-room schools, deeply embedded in the American memory, remain powerful symbols of the
                    nation's educational heritage.
            
               One-Room Schools of the Middle West is illustrated with well-chosen photographs and
                    visual materials from iconographic archives of midwestern county and state historical societies and
                    universities and from the collections of the Library of Congress. Illustrations are skillfully
                    integrated into the narrative.
            The book moves from the origins to the demise of the Middle West's one-room schools,
                    beginning with "Democracy in Small Places," a chapter that details the Land
                    Ordinance of 1785, which reserved the sixteenth section of each township of the Northwest Territory
                    for education.
            In "Pioneer Schools," Fuller, giving guarded credence to Frederick Jackson
                    Turner's frontier thesis, portrays pioneer schools as 
                    carrying civilization to the frontier. "The Little White Schoolhouse" focuses on
                    frame schoolhouses which replaced roughhewn log structures.
            "Rural Aspirations" recounts the ways in which farmers with middle-class
                    aspirations improved schoolhouses by adding belfries and bells, cloakrooms, transoms, gable windows
                    with springs, better stoves, slate blackboards, and flagpoles.
            "In and Out of the Country Schoolhouse" brings readers inside the schoolhouse with
                    its double desks, creaky pine floors, and an iron stove with a stovepipe latched to the ceiling.
                    School furnishings changed from homemade to manufactured items sold by school supply companies. The
                    patented single desk, with a desktop attached to its back, required arranging desks in straight
                    rows.
            "School Days" demonstrates that basic curriculum-reading, writing, arithmetic,
                    history, geography, grammar, spelling, and hygiene—was drilled into children by
                    recitations and memorization.
            "Teacher! Teacher!" portrays rural school teachers; young women who were to be
                    "disciplinarians of the first order, part-time nurses for the young pupils, counselors to
                    the older ones, and knowledgeable in the common branches of learning from the three R's to
                    history, geography, grammar, and advanced arithmetic" (p. 61).
            "Poor, Poor, Country Schools" recounts the concerted attack by professional
                    educators, universities, colleges, and state departments of education which alleged that poorly
                    prepared teachers taught in substandard facilities controlled by tightfisted farmers. Fuller
                    convincingly argues that Middle West country schools were educationally and economically effective
                    and that the Midwest was the nation's most literate section.
            A movement, launched by professional educators, to consolidate pupils into larger schools in enlarged
                    districts signaled the demise of one-room schools. In Indiana, where schools were already organized
                    on the township pattern, 181 wagons were transporting 2,599 Indiana schoolchildren to consolidated
                    schools by 1902.
            The chapter on "The Depression Years," which is hauntingly illustrated by the
                    images of Federal Farm Security photographers, reveals the persistence of the Midwest's
                    one-room schools of which 70,000 still existed in 1936.
            "Consolidation at Last!" concludes Fuller's narrative as the one-room
                    school era finally succumbed after World War II. Facing declining enrollments and state pressure for
                    consolidation, one-room schools were auctioned off.
            Succeeding in conveying the historical significance of the Middle West's one-room schools,
                    Fuller's book is highly recommended for those interested in America's educational
                    heritage.
            GERALD L. GUTEK is professor of education and history,
                    Loyola University, 
                        Chicago
                    .
         
         
         
            
               War in 
                            Kentucky
                        : From 
                            Shiloh
                         to Perryville. By James Lee McDonough. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xvii, 386. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $32.00.)
            Civil War scholars have long debated the relative decisiveness of the war in the East and the war in
                    the West. It is surely true that the consistent, almost invariable Federal successes in the West
                    were a significant offset to the Confederate victories in the 
                        Virginia
                     theater during the first two years of the war. It is also true that the western war
                    receives less public attention than do the eastern activities of the armies. James Lee McDonough is
                    a western war writer. He has a keen grasp of western strategy and pays needed attention to the
                    involvement of railroads in that strategy. Having previously published books about 
                        Shiloh
                    , Stones River, 
                        Chattanooga
                    , and the Battle of 
                        Franklin
                    , he now turns his attention to the 
                        Kentucky
                     war that took place between the time of 
                        Shiloh
                     and Perryville. The events there and then were significant and deserving of close
                    attention.
            The Confederacy was initially thrust on the defensive in the West by Grant's successes at
                    Henry and Donelson in February, 1862, "the first turning point of the war" (p.
                    15). Attempting to regain the initiative, the Confederates were then defeated at 
                        Shiloh
                     in April, 1862. Following 
                        Shiloh
                     Buell's Army of the 
                        Ohio
                     was dispatched to march against 
                        Chattanooga
                    . Belabored by guerrillas and cavalry under generals Forrest and Morgan, Buell did not
                    reach 
                        Chattanooga
                    . Instead, Braxton Bragg arrived there and compelled Buell's withdrawal to the
                    north. Bragg and Kirby Smith then led separate and ineffectively cooperating armies through 
                        Tennessee
                     and into 
                        Kentucky
                    . The 
                        Kentucky
                     campaign, like Lee's move into 
                        Maryland
                    , was in part motivated by a Confederate belief that 
                        Kentucky
                     would rise for the Confederacy. The campaign represented another Confederate attempt to
                    restore itself in the West.
            Crossing the Cumberland River, Bragg moved into 
                        Kentucky
                     toward 
                        Glasgow
                     and Kirby Smith's army entered the state about one hundred miles east of 
                        Glasgow
                    . The book contains good discussions of the Battle of 
                  Richmond, Kentucky
               , where
                    Smith soundly defeated a smaller Federal force. McDonough also describes the interesting encounter
                    between Bragg and a Federal force under Indiana's Colonel John Thomas Wilder at
                    Munfordville. The book climaxes with a fine description of the Battle of Perryville on October 8,
                    1862. Perryville was a bloody and confused drawn battle from which Bragg and Smith retreated into 
                        Tennessee
                    , thus ending this Confederates’ effort to recover from the result of Forts
                    Henry and Donelson. The campaign was a failure for the Confederacy for several reasons, including
                    the absence of unified command between Smith and Bragg, their inept cooperation, and the fact that
                    Kentuckians  did not rally to the Confederate banner in any
                    significant way.
            Concentrating on a relatively brief period of the war in a circumscribed area, the book informs the
                    reader significantly about the war in the West. It contains careful evaluations of the
                    protagonists’ leadership, Halleck and Buell for the Union and Bragg and Kirby Smith for
                    the South.
            ALAN T. NOLAN is a lawyer and historian in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His books include The Iron Brigade (1961) and Lee
                        Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History (1991). He is
                        currently working on a book about the mythology of the Lost Cause.
            
         
         
            
               Holding the Line: The Third 
                            Tennessee
                         Infantry, 1861-1864. By Flavel C. Barber. Edited by Robert H. Ferrell.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1994. Pp. viii, 281. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $28.00.)
            Civil War diaries, letters, and memoirs continue to fly as thick and fast as minie balls at Little
                    Round Top. This latest installment introduces Major Flavel Clingan Barber, a Pennsylvanian by birth
                    but in 1861 a staunch Confederate patriot. At the outbreak of the Civil War Barber, a thirty-one
                    year old schoolteacher, married the daughter of a prominent 
                  Giles
                            County, Tennessee
               , family and
                    left for the front on the following day. Over the next three years Mary Barber would see precious
                    little of her new husband, a fact that may have proved to be a matter of contention. "I
                    know if I could get home and have a short interview with her she would not be so unreasonable as to
                    object to my rejoining our army," Barber noted in 1862 while contemplating his imminent
                    release from Federal prison (p. 59). Clearly, any female protestations were in vain: although Barber
                    did return to 
                        Tennessee
                     in October on recruiting duty, he was back six weeks later with his regiment from whose
                    male companionship he would be rarely separated for the remainder of his short life. At Resaca, 
                        Georgia
                    , on May 15, 1864, his third wedding anniversary, Barber died from wounds received the
                    previous day as the Army of 
                        Tennessee
                     attempted to resist Sherman's advance into the Confederate heartland.
            Flavel Barber's narrative, begun as a memoir in captivity on Johnson's Island and
                    continued for the most part as a daily journal following his exchange, makes a worthy publication.
                    Ably introduced and annotated by Robert H. Ferrell, the diary provides a fascinating portrait of
                    unit life and of the alternating tedium and terror that warfare induces in its participants.
                    Military historians will appreciate the detailed accounts that Barber provides of the engagements in
                    which the Third 
                        Tennessee
                     participated, notably at the Battle of Chickasaw Bayou in December, 1862, where the
                    regiment's actions were decisive. But the book's true value derives from  its insight into soldier life and into the vicissitudes and
                    false horizons of camp morale. Each year brought renewed optimism that it would be the
                    war's last, but the "improbable and stunning" news of Vicksburg proved
                    particularly hard to absorb. Musing in July, 1863, about his unit's experiences over the
                    previous twelve months, Barber noted that "the elastic step of hope" had now been
                    "exchanged for the slow tread of doubt and despondency" (p. 141).
            What finally distinguishes Flavel Barber's narrative is its literary merit. Barber the
                    schoolteacher writes honestly about his own frustration and discomfort and with often vivid
                    compassion about the sufferings of his fellow soldiers. Especially sympathetic is the description of
                    a terrible night's endurance on the battlefield at Chickasaw Bayou, where the groans of the
                    wounded men "soon drove away what little propensity I had for sleep" (p. 85). But
                    Barber can also wield a sharper literary scalpel, and his sardonic comments on General Gideon
                    Pillow's conduct at Fort Donelson, where the Third 
                        Tennessee
                     was forced to surrender, will scarcely redeem that hapless commander's
                    reputation. In short, Holding the Line proves a valuable addition to the Civil War bookshelf and can
                    be recommended with confidence to scholars and enthusiasts alike.
            MARTIN CRAWFORD teaches American history at the University
                    of Keele, 
                        England
                    . His most recent book is William Howard Russell's Civil War:
                        Private Diary and Letters, 1861-1862 (1992).
         
         
            
               Andersonville: The Last Depot. By William Marvel. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xi, 337. Map, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Andersonville was certainly the most infamous of all the Civil War prisons, North or South. The
                    controversy surrounding the place has inspired numerous accounts, ranging from the bitter memoirs of
                    its survivors to a famous novel by MacKinlay Kantor to a scholarly study by Ovid Futch. William
                    Marvel, however, has written a book that far outpaces all previous work on Andersonville. He has
                    produced the definitive history of this prison, shorn of hidden agendas, thoroughly based on
                    exhaustive research, and written in a style that approaches a cross between traditional scholarly
                    language and the immediacy of journalistic accounts. It is difficult to find fault with this book,
                    which was written as much from the heart as from the head.
            Marvel did his work with an admirable attention to detail. He covers all aspects of the construction,
                    administration, and dismantling of the prison in addition to creating vivid pictures of the personal
                    experiences of those involved in the history of Andersonville. Marvel finds fault where it is
                    justified, but he is not motivated by a desire to indict, only to understand. He has furthered his
                    own  understanding of the history of this prison by examining
                    the site, which, in 1864, was nothing more than a stockaded camp where 41,000 Union prisoners of war
                    were housed.
            The strength that carries this book is Marvel's uncompromising desire to find all relevant
                    material on Andersonville and then to evaluate the usefulness of that data. The author has concluded
                    that politically motivated stories about the atrocities allegedly suffered at the prison were
                    generally unreliable. Overall, Marvel indicates that the immense suffering of the inmates was
                    overwhelmingly the result of mismanagement and lack of resources on the part of their Rebel captors.
                    He also suggests that the northern government, through its refusal to exchange prisoners in 1864,
                    bears some of the responsibility for the overcrowding that plagued the Confederate prisoner of war
                    system during the last year of the conflict. These are not new interpretations, but no one has
                    proved them as well as Marvel has.
            There were numerous Indiana soldiers at Andersonville, but the book's slim index is not
                    detailed enough to enable the reader to find quickly their stories. African-American soldiers were
                    held there as well, and southern slaves were instrumental in the building of the prison. Women found
                    their way to Andersonville as well; some were prostitutes, others were relatives of the prisoners,
                    and still others were residents of the area who came to look at the Yankees. Marvel briefly
                    discusses the aftermath of this brutal episode of Civil War history—the trial and
                    execution of Andersonville's commandant, Henry Wirz, as a war criminal. He does not,
                    however, examine the role of Andersonville within the wider context of postwar politics. Some
                    observations on the place of the prison in the nation's collective memory of the war would
                    be interesting, but Marvel, who surely will be acknowledged as Andersonville's historian,
                    does not attempt it. Nevertheless, this is a rich history deserving to be read.
            EARL J. HESS is assistant professor of history, Lincoln
                    Memorial University, Harrogate, 
                        Tennessee
                    . He is coauthor of Pea Ridge: Civil War Campaign in the West
                (1992).
         
         
            
               April ‘65: Confederate Covert Action in the American Civil War. By
                    William A. Tidwell. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1995. Pp. xvi, 264. Illustrations, tables, maps, appendixes,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $30.00.)
            In April ‘65, William A. Tidwell develops and elaborates on a thesis
                    first presented in his 1988 book, Come Retribution: The Confederate Secret Service and
                        the Assassination of Lincoln. Together these two books reopen the question of whether there
                    was a connection between Confederate secret service operations and the  president's murder. In this work as in the earlier one the
                    evidence is circumstantial but cleverly assembled.
            According to Tidwell, the Confederate government encouraged John Wilkes Booth to kidnap Lincoln. When
                    that effort failed, explosives expert Thomas F. Harney was sent to blow up the White House. John S.
                    Mosby's guerrillas were to create a diversion allowing Harney to slip into the capital, but
                    this effort miscarried and Harney was captured. Not realizing that Robert E. Lee's
                    surrender made all this plotting pointless, Booth and his fellow conspirators proceeded on their own
                    to disrupt the Union high command by shooting Lincoln and attempting to assassinate several other
                    officials. According to recently discovered but very fragmentary information, the Confederate
                    government spent approximately one and-one-half million dollars in gold on secret service
                    operations. Requests for money went directly to Confederate President Jefferson Davis who, according
                    to Tidwell, had to approve all covert operations. The problem is that there is no direct evidence of
                    how this money was spent. The author, for example, builds a case based on ingenious research and
                    inference that an April 1 expenditure of $1,500 in gold went to Mosby and Harney, but
                    serious doubts remain.
            Indeed, the whole Confederate secret service remains shrouded in mystery. There are few clear
                    references to organizations, much less operations. The State Department, the War Department, and the
                    Navy Department were all allegedly involved in various clandestine activities. These included simple
                    espionage (e.g., the Rose O'Neal Greenhow spy ring in 
                        Washington
                    ), plans by the shadowy Bernard J. Sage for using explosive devices on both land and
                    water, and the more well-known operations by Jacob Thompson and his associates in 
                        Canada
                     to promote the northern peace movement and rescue Confederate prisoners.
            Despite some new evidence, the connection between Confederate agents and Booth is tenuous at best.
                    Tidwell believes that the notorious perjurer Charles A. Dunham (alias Sanford Conover) was in fact
                    part of a plot to lead Union investigators away from discovering Confederate involvement in the
                    Lincoln assassination. To his credit, Tidwell admits that many of these conclusions are speculative,
                    and such phrases as "must have been," "probably," "may
                    have been," and "likely" are liberally sprinkled throughout the text. The
                    trouble is that imaginative hypothesizing on one point may be treated as an established fact later
                    in the book. In tracking the evidence at some of the most critical points, the reader is too often
                    referred back to Come Retribution, a work whose own scholarly apparatus is sometimes incomplete and
                    confusing. With this second book, Tidwell may well be trying to establish his provocative thesis
                    simply through repetition, or what David Hackett Fischer has 
                    termed the "argument ad nauseum." Nevertheless, even if readers remain unpersuaded
                    by the argument, they will enjoy the creative sleuthing.
            GEORGE C. RABLE is professor of history, Anderson
                    University, Anderson, Indiana. He is author of The Confederate Republic: A Reuolution
                        Against Politics (19941, a History Book Club selection.
         
         
            
               The British Foreign Service and the American Civil War. By Eugene H. Berwanger. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1994. Pp. xi, 215. Notes, bibliography, index. $28.00.)
            Eugene H. Berwanger's The British Foreign Service and the American Civil
                    War describes a neglected aspect of Civil War history. And unlike many Civil War books, there
                    are no larger than life heroes and few heroics in this study of British diplomatic and consular
                    activity during the Civil War. The international history of the Civil War, except for the Trent affair, recognition of the Confederacy, the Union blockade, and privateering
                    matters, has been largely ignored.
            Berwanger describes the functions of consuls and diplomats in the mid-nineteenth century and the
                    strained efforts to preserve British consular officials in the seceding states without allowing
                    their authority to rest in any way upon the U.S. State Department or even with British diplomats in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. Some intriguing topics of Berwanger's book include the diplomatic and
                    consular reactions to arbitrary arrests; questionable practices used to conscript, even shanghai,
                    immigrants; and the improper enrollment of resident British subjects. The index does not serve the
                    book well. It has few subject references, and this makes it difficult to reconstruct the books
                    treatment of diplomatic matters generally or such important specific topics as belligerency and
                    mediation.
            Berwanger has examined the British consular and diplomatic records thoroughly, but he has overlooked
                    several good studies of the diplomatic and consular corps in the nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries that might have shaped his judgments and supplied standards for evaluation. For example,
                    he notes the standard work by Graham Stuart, American Diplomatic and Consular Practice (1952), but not the equally standard studies of Warren F. Ilchman, Professional Diplomacy in the 
                            United States
                        , 1779-1939 (1961), and Elmer Plischke, 
                  
                            United States
                         Diplomats and their Missions: A Profile of American Diplomatic Emissaries since
                        1778 (1975). He devotes considerable space to William Henry Seward but does not mention
                    either Walter LaFeber's The New Empire: An Interpretation of American
                        Expansion, 1860-1898 (1963), or Ernest Paolino's The Foundations of
                        the American Empire: William
                    
                    Henry Seward and U.S. Foreign Policy (1973). Omissions such as these reflect the
                    narrow parameters of Berwanger's research.
            Berwanger is at his best in the chapters that describe the world of
                    "bounty-brokers," agents who managed enlistments of drugged or kidnapped
                    "conscripts" in order to keep all or most of the bounty. For dramatic effect he
                    uses language which indicates callous, widespread conduct but then notes that there were at most
                    hundreds of cases. A modest number of complaints may be expected when any populous society builds up
                    a huge military force in the midst of a crisis.
            Berwanger has no need to exaggerate the role of the British agents. His story reveals an intriguing
                    aspect of the oft-forgotten international side of America's Civil War.
            THOMAS SCHOONOVER is professor of history, University of
                    Southwestern 
                  Louisiana, Lafayette
               .
         
         
            
               Abraham Lincoln: Sources and Style of Leadership. Edited by Frank J. Williams,
                    William D. Pederson, and Vincent J. Marsala. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1994. Pp. xvi, 191. Notes, select bibliography, index.
                    $55.00.)
            This book includes nine papers on President Abraham Lincoln's leadership delivered in
                    September, 1992, at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University in Shreveport in a conference cosponsored by the Abraham Lincoln
                    Association. The speakers were political scientists and historians familiar with the literature and
                    well qualified to assess current interpretations and make suggestions. Ethan Fishman declared that
                    when Lincoln opposed the extension of slavery but realized that it could not be abolished overnight,
                    he was practicing the classical prudence of Aristotle and acting with the highest moral virtue.
                    Ronald D. Rietveld related how emancipation delivered on the promise of equality made by the
                    Founding Fathers in the Declaration of Independence. Joseph R. Fornieri agreed that freeing the
                    slaves restored the American creed of equality proclaimed by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.
            James A. Stevenson demonstrated that Lincoln's poetry made his prose more precise and
                    rhythmic. David E. Long asserted that President Lincoln's decision to stand firm for
                    emancipation in spite of possible defeat in the election of 1864 was "an act of unsurpassed
                    political courage and integrity" (p. 106). Brooks D. Simpson, describing Lincoln's
                    relationship with Grant, noted that Lincoln was much relieved to learn that in 1864 Grant was not
                    gnawed by "the Presidential grub" (p. 119). William C. Harris found that
                    Lincoln's prudence in dealing with white Southern Unionists paid off: restored Governor
                    Francis H. Pierpont of 
                        Virginia
                     stumped the  North for eight weeks for Lincoln in
                    the campaign of 1864. David H. Leroy described the establishment of 
                        Idaho
                     Territory, and Frank J. Williams compared Lincoln to other world leaders of his day.
            The book mentions Lincoln's admiration for Henry 
                        Clay
                     and, by emphasizing prudence and continuity with the Founding Fathers, challenges the
                    thesis by Gamy Wills, James McPherson, and others that emancipation represented a revolution against
                    the Constitution. Rietveld's three-page discussion of Lincoln's reading as a youth
                    and information on Lincoln's friendship with William H. Wallace, who lived in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     before moving to 
                        Idaho
                    , relate particularly to Indiana. The chapters read like speeches, and the emphasis is
                    more on interpretation than new evidence. But the return to a more traditional view of Lincoln is
                    interesting and valuable.
            JAMES A. RAMAGE is professor of history, Northern 
                        Kentucky
                     University, Highland Heights. He is author of Rebel Raider: The Life of
                        General John Hunt Morgan (1986) and is currently writing a biography of John Singleton
                    Mosby.
         
         
            
               Cities of the 
                            Mississippi
                        : Nineteenth-Century Images of Urban Development. By John W. Reps. Photographs
                    by Alex MacLean. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1994. Pp. 342. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $85.00.)
            John W. Reps, professor emeritus of City and Regional Planning at Cornell University and the widely
                    acknowledged elder statesman of scholarly studies in American planning, has produced a lavishly
                    illustrated volume that describes and depicts nineteenth-century Mississippi
                    River towns. Hundred-year-old images are juxtaposed, in some instances, with Alex
                    MacLean's contemporary aerial photographs. An 1888 perspective map of the city of Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    , for example, appears opposite a 1988 colored photograph of the same city (pp. 168-69).
                    This is an extraordinarily beautiful book containing hundreds of prints, more than 140 of them in
                    color. Indeed, the book is so aesthetically pleasing that it will undoubtedly find its way to the
                    coffee tables of those who are drawn more to its artistry than to its treatment of urban
                    development. On both counts, for its beauty and its attentiveness to detail, it is most deserving of
                    recognition. In a gesture that is both touching and appropriate, the book memorializes "the
                    victims and … those who survived the Mississippi River floods of
                    1993."
            Because of their quality and their power, the illustrations dominate Cities of the 
                            Mississippi
                        . Nonetheless, Reps has done a very satisfactory job of introducing the
                    artists, printers, and publishers who created the visual records of these urban outposts. The author
                    also skillfully injects into his narrative the words that the residents of these cities as well as
                    journalists and travelers once used to  describe the places
                    familiar to them. "I can picture that old time to myself now, just as it was
                    then," wrote Mark Twain in Life on the 
                            Mississippi
                        
               , "the white town drowsing in the sunshine of a summer's
                    morning … the great 
                        Mississippi
                    , the majestic, the magnificent 
                        Mississippi
                    , rolling its mile-wide tide along, shining in the sun" (from the book jacket).
                    From The Balize, a village for ship pilots at the mouth of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , to St. Cloud, 
                        Minnesota
                    , where the river originates, nineteenth-century towns and cities grace the pages of Cities of the 
                            Mississippi
                        . Whether major metropolises like 
                  New
                            Orleans, St. Louis
               , and 
                        Minneapolis
                     or small towns like Cairo, 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and 
                        Prairie
                     du Chien, all of them represent urban enclaves whose existence and development have
                    been intricately intertwined with this, the most awesome river of the American heartland.
            
               Cities of the 
                            Mississippi
                        
                provides an armchair voyage up and down the mighty 
                        Mississippi
                     of the nineteenth century with numerous stopovers and lots of
                    sightseeing—and without the dangers that loomed over pilots, captains, crewmen, and
                    ordinary travelers who treated with this river. Students of American urban history and town planning
                    as well as aesthetes will undoubtedly be drawn to this beautiful book.
            MARGARET RIPLEY WOLFE is professor of
                    history, East 
                        Tennessee
                     State University, 
                        Johnson City
                    . She is author of Kingsport, 
                            Tennessee
                        : A Planned American City (1987) and Daughters of Canaan: A Saga
                        of Southern Women (1995) as well as other books and numerous articles and essays dealing
                    with topics in American social history.
         
         
            
               The Frontier in American Culture: An Exhibition at the Newberry Library, August 26,
                        1994January 7, 1995. Essays by Richard White and Patricia Nelson Limerick. Edited by James
                    R. Grossman. (Berkeley: University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xiii, 116. Illustrations, notes. Clothbound, $30.00;
                    paperbound, $15.00.)
            The Newberry Library and University of 
                        California
                     Press have produced a handsome catalogue to accompany the Newberry's
                    contribution to the centennial of Frederick Jackson Turner's frontier thesis, first
                    presented in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1893. Intended as a commemoration, the catalog is neither defense nor polemic.
                    Rather, as James R. Grossman explains, the Newberry's curators decided to probe why the
                    frontier should still resonate today "with such depth and emotion" by exploring
                    the national preoccupation with frontier images and looking at the relation between western history,
                    popular culture, and national identity.
            Having described the rationale, Grossman notes: "This is Richard White's
                    exhibition" (p. xiii). Fittingly, then, White's essay is the catalogue's
                    centerpiece, a dozen full-color and twenty-six  black-and-white
                    reproductions notwithstanding. White's thesis is convincing. Turner and Buffalo Bill Cody,
                    producer of the Wild West extravaganzas of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, were
                    the architects of master narratives of American westering. Turner's story focused on
                    settlement of the American continent by white farmers whose tools were the axe and plow and whose
                    interaction with the frontier shaped a distinctly American character.
            By contrast, Buffalo Bill's narrative, "as finished and culturally significant as
                    Turner's own" (p. 9), told not of conquest over nature but over native
                    peoples—something Turner left out. Buffalo Bill's hero was the scout whose tools
                    in turn were the rifle and bullet. To have his narrative serve national myth making, Buffalo Bill
                    made the tale one of Indian aggression and white victimization, thus inverting the real story. White
                    settlers became "badly abused conquerors," and the chief icons of westward
                    expansion became defeats such as the 
                        Alamo
                     and Custer's Last Stand in which heroic whites defended
                    civilization's advance against barbarism (p. 27). Providing an added twist and anticipating
                    Hollywood movie making, Buffalo Bill fashioned a post-modern West in which performance and history
                    were "hopelessly intertwined" (p. 29), as when Cody left the eastern stage in
                    summer, 1876, to take the "first scalp for Custer" out West and then returned to
                    the stage, scalp in hand, or when some of the Indians who fought Custer played themselves in
                    Cody's Last Stand reenactments and then returned to the West to fight the Seventh Cavalry
                    at Wounded Knee in 1890. Whatever their contributions, White warns, Turner's and
                    Cody's narratives crowded out other stories and oversimplified actual history.
            In contrast to White, Patricia Nelson Limerick explores the word "frontier" as a
                    metaphor in our own time. Turner himself said the term was an elastic one, and Limerick proves the
                    truth of the saying with contemporary examples from advertising, political speeches, and newspaper
                    headlines. In the twentieth century, such words as "frontier" and
                    "pioneer" have translated easily into "promise,"
                    "progress," and "ingenuity." Thus, they have instant recognition
                    and require no explanation. Limerick summarizes current scholarly efforts to reckon with the
                    complexity of "frontier history," and then notes with characteristic humor and
                    irony that the public all but ignores historians’ hard work.
            Both White and Limerick end their essays on upbeat notes. Perhaps, says White a bit lamely, the
                    "imaginative coherence" of such narratives as Turner's and
                    Cody's encourages unity among a diverse American populace. Limerick does better
                    rhetorically, if not in truth, writing: "Packed full of nonsense and goofiness, jammed with
                    nationalistic self-congratulation and toxic ethnocentrism, the image of the frontier is nonetheless
                    universally recognized, and  laden with positive
                    associations." She adds: "the concept works as a cultural glue" (p. 94).
                    So does the conceptualization and rendering of this slender but rewarding volume.
            CHARLES E. RANKIN is editor of 
                        Montana
                    : The Magazine of Western History, Helena.
         
         
            
               Neither Wolf Nor Dog: American Indians, Environment, and Agrarian Change. By
                    David Rich Lewis. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1994. Pp. [xiii], 240. Maps, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $29.95.)
            
               Neither Wolf Nor Dog is a story about maintenance of identity and tribal survival
                    on the periphery of American society. Utilizing the Doris Duke American Indian Oral History Project
                    Collection and the Tohono O'odham Oral History Collection, David Rich Lewis weaves relevant
                    narrative with substantial primary material, creating a taut canvas on which to paint his thesis.
                    The author casts his work as an investigation of "Native American responses to directed
                    cultural change, particularly the social and environmental consequences of directed subsistence
                    change" (p. 3). While the volume is modest in size, the presentation of three well-chosen
                    and carefully researched case studies with equally carefully mapped methodology provide engaging
                    reading. This is quintessential ethnohistory, combining well-developed perspectives and diverse
                    sources of history with ethnological and ethnographic subtlety.
            The three cases consist of two chapters each: one chapter of ethnographic and environmental
                    background, with a second chapter describing the group's experiences with and responses to
                    settled reservations and allotted agriculture. Lewis chose the three for their similarities as well
                    as their differences, and he measures the range of responses the groups exhibit to the same change.
                    In addition, the author wished to broaden tribal participation in scholarly literature by including
                    three well-known but relatively little discussed tribes and their economies. The three groups chosen
                    offered settled reservations, allotted agriculture, and differing environments: Northern Utes of the
                    Great Basin and Rocky Mountain areas of 
                  Colorado, Utah
               , and
                    northwestern 
                        New Mexico
                    ; the Hupas of the Trinity River area in northwest 
                        California
                    ; and the Tohono O'odhams of southern 
                        Arizona
                     and northern Sonora, Mexico. In each case, the tribe adapted and interlocked cultural
                    traditions with subsistence environments. This book considers the social and environmental result of
                    attempting to solve an Anglo-perceived "Indian Problem" by implementing policies
                    of directed subsistence change and tribal annexation meant to disengage the tradition-environment
                    relationship.
            
            Ultimately, each society studied became either marginally incorporated or abandoned at the edges of
                    "American" society, because of impractical theories and unmet expectations. As the
                    title of this book implies, the tribes’ status was "neither wolf nor
                    dog," a reference to Sitting Bull's observation of dependent nineteenth-century
                    "agency Indians" (p. 4). Attempts with directive policies failed largely because
                    each tribal case group reproduced its own cultural values in the changing and inexorably shrinking
                    environment. Seen by the author as a forward extension of Richard White's work in Roots of Dependency (1983), this effort similarly considers environment,
                    subsistence, and social changes in three tribes. Perhaps the main difference between the two works
                    is that Lewis chose to study each group on the basis of matching chronologies, making this work
                    useful when comparing and distinguishing across geographic boundaries. In Lewis's view,
                    this study emerges not only as an expansion of work begun by White, but also as a part of a growing
                    scholarship on Native Americans and agriculture. Indeed, he sees Neither Wolf Nor
                    Dog as a partial answer to a call from anthropologists and historians for more scholarly
                    research on the subject.
            Lewis concludes that his study is but "part of the larger story of how agrarian-based
                    policies, environmental change, and native cultural responses contributed to the ultimate dependency
                    of previously self-sufficient peoples" (p. 170). Certainly Lewis's research
                    provides an important contribution and at the least illuminates the way toward further investigation
                    of Native Americans as active and reasonable participants in their own history, a possibility
                    heretofore largely ignored yet ripe for theoretical and practical consideration.
            KURT M. PETERS is assistant professor in the Ethnic
                    Studies Center at 
                        California
                     State University, 
                        Sacramento
                    .
         
         
            
               Home on the Range: A Century on the High Plains. By James R. Dickenson. (
                        New York
                    : Scribner, 1995. Pp. 304. Illustrations, index. $24.00.)
            For many Americans what passes as geographic knowledge of other places comes from driving the
                    interstate highways or flying at 35,000 feet. From those vantage points the Great Plains collapses
                    to miles of flat boredom or endless stretches of featureless space. But for countless generations of
                    natives and newcomers the plains have been something more than "the big empty."
                    North America's tableland has been variously called the sea of grass, the Garden of the
                    World, the Great American Desert, and the Heartland. And for those who live there, it is often
                    simply Home. Each of those names is a promise or a curse; each name an effort to impose human will
                    on a place with an intractable being of its own.
            
            Writers of all kinds and persuasions, some homegrown and others drawn from the outside, have been
                    caught up in the power of the plains. From Willa Cather, O. E. Rolvaag, and Hamlin Garland to
                    Kathleen Norris, 
                        Dayton
                     Duncan, and William Least Heat-Moon, writers have found themselves drawn to the sweep
                    and space of the country west of 
                        Wichita
                    . James R. Dickenson's gracefully written Home on the Range
                    now takes its place on the grassland shelf along with works by Walter Prescott Webb, Carl F.
                    Kraenzel, James C. Malin, and Craig Miner. Home on the Range lives at the place
                    where the section line roads of history and personal memoir cross. Read along one road, the book is
                    all about McDonald, 
                        Kansas
                    , the Phipps and Dickenson families, and a century of experience on the High Plains of
                    northwestern 
                        Kansas
                    . Dickenson grew up in McDonald, and he has filled his geography of memory with old
                    friends, remembered places, and cherished moments. But Dickenson has written much more than the
                    story of one town and the folks who haunted its streets and worked the fields and pastures beyond.
                    Like Sherwood Anderson's Winesburg, 
                            Ohio
                        , Home on the Range offers the story of one town that is the story of many.
                    Dickenson intends his readers to find in these small stories the echoes of larger narratives, the
                    emblematic ones that reveal the fundamentals of the American experience. The markets, machines,
                    politics, and wars directed from 
                  Washington,
                            London, Paris
               , and Moscow all touched the lives of those who drove the roads of 
                        Rawlins County
                    .
            Truth is in the details, and Home on the Range is filled with memorable ones. With
                    the practiced eye of a journalist, Dickenson lets readers see the shape of lives in the daily
                    routine of work and play, holidays and high jinks. Dickenson's deftly personal analysis of
                    religion, politics, and social relationships in McDonald and neighboring towns might not pass muster
                    with the most dedicated number-crunching social historian, but the texture of life is more
                    powerfully portrayed on these pages than in most academic history.
            This is not happy-face history, and Home on the Range is not the product of an
                    exiled booster hankering for the good old days and the good old boys. Dickenson knows the hard truth
                    in historian Elwyn Robinson's characterization of the High Plains as a country suffering
                    the "Too Much Mistake." As even the most casual traveler heading west along
                    Highway 36 from Norton through McDonald to St. Francis and the 
                        Colorado
                     border can attest, the plains’ promise attracted "too many people,
                    farms, ranches, towns, roads, and railroads for the land to support" (p. 248). The signs
                    are everywhere in boarded up stores, abandoned houses, and railroad stations now gone quiet.
                    McDonald and 
                        Rawlins County
                     once promised prosperity, security, and even advancement. Here was Jefferson's
                    ideal—the garden in the grassland. But the same power of technology and global markets
                    that brought families to the town in the 1880s moved the promise elsewhere. Home on the
                        Range is not a simpleminded  elegy for a mythic golden
                    age; Dickenson knows that on the plains nothing is forever. Only the land endures. Home on the Range
                    cautiously celebrates endurance, helping readers measure McDonald's days and their own.
            JAMES P. RONDA is the H. G. Barnard Professor of Western
                    American History, University of Tulsa. He writes about the exploration of the West and enjoys
                    small-town cafes and rodeos.
         
         
            
               The Sixties: From Memory to History. Edited by David Farber. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1994. Pp. 333. Notes, index. Clothbound, $47.50; paperbound,
                    $17.95.)
            In the aftermath of recent celebrations of the twenty-fifth anniversary of Woodstock, the 1960s began
                    to look like a silly decade. The selection of pictures and thirty-second sound bites that
                    accompanied any mention of the 1969 rock concert/celebration of youth projected a kind of
                    superficial smiley face plastered over that era that made it appear not just irrelevant but, well,
                    silly. Fortunately, The Sixties: From Memory to History, a collection of essays
                    edited by David Farber, counteracts that trend with a heavy dose of serious analysis and
                    interpretation of events, movements, and policies from that decade.
            The reference in the title to memory is interesting because this book deals not with the usual batch
                    of participant/authors who rely on their memories in accounts of the 1960s. The authors assembled in
                    this collection offer solidly researched and objective interpretations of their topics rather than
                    personal references to past events. It seems, thankfully, that evidence has replaced nostalgia in
                    dealing with this part of the American past.
            Farber introduces the collection by laying down the questions that each author addressed: how much
                    American changed during the 1960s and why it changed. The answers to those questions formed around
                    themes concerning cultural authority and political legitimacy. Not surprisingly, all of the authors
                    analyze the 1960s not as a single decade but as one that can only be understood within the context
                    of post—World War II American history.
            There are some pleasant surprises with articles on topics not usually found in most histories of the
                    1960s. For example, Terry Anderson's analysis of American business practices in relation to
                    political movements ("The New American Revolution: The Movement and Business") is balanced
                    by George Lipsitz's essay on the effects of the counterculture on a society driven by
                    powerful market forces ("Who'll Stop the Rain?: Youth Culture, Rock 'n Roll, and
                    Social Crises"). Kenneth Cmiel looks at the shifting social order of American public life
                    in his essay, "The Politics of Civility." Topics that one would expect to find,
                    like the 
                        Vietnam
                     war are treated  from somewhat unusual
                    perspectives, such as Mary Sheila McMa-hon's discussion of the 
                        Vietnam
                     war as a failure of foreign policy elites and 
                        Chester
                     Pach's interpretation of television coverage of that war in a highly readable
                    and engaging essay entitled "And That's the Way it Was: The 
                        Vietnam
                     War on the Network Nightly News." David Colburn and George Pozetta examine the
                    civil rights movement not just as an important social and political movement but also as the focus
                    of a change in the way Americans looked at the meaning of individual and collective power in
                    "Race, Ethnicity, and the Evolution of Political Legitimacy." The origins of
                    recent political arguments about reducing the size of government can be traced to the Great Society
                    as discussed in Robert M. Collins's "Growth Liberalism in the Sixties: Great
                    Societies at Home and Grand Designs Abroad."
            This reviewer's favorites were Alice Echols's excellent treatment of the
                    women's movement ("Nothing Distant About It: Women's Liberation and Sixties
                    Radicalism"), Beth Bailey's "Sexual Revolution(s)," and
                    Farber's contribution, "The Silent Majority and Talk About Revolution."
            Echols provides a much needed account of the women's movement in the 1960s. Except for Sara
                    Evans, most historians of that movement tend to slide over the early years of women's
                    liberation and concentrate on its development in the 1970s. To understand the reasons why the
                    women's movement evolved as it did, however, it is crucial to learn about those early
                    years. Echols's essay pulls together all the elements that contributed to the energy and
                    momentum of women's organizing in the mid-to-late 1960s and should become a standard source
                    for anyone interested in this topic.
            Similarly, Bailey identifies the diffuse threads that made up the sexual revolution(s) and weaves
                    them into discernible patterns. Bailey uses evidence from Barnard College and the University of 
                        Kansas
                     to argue that much of what is called the sexual revolution had more to do with a
                    realignment of public and private attitudes about gender relationships and political weaponry than
                    it did with sex.
            Finally, Farber's focus on the silent majority represents an often overlooked understanding
                    that 1960s politics was just as much about the right as it was about the left. Listening to the
                    voices of the silent majority, Farber offers a sensitive discussion of what happened to Americans
                    who found themselves left out of a national debate that not only ignored the values that they held
                    dear but discounted the labor that gave their lives meaning. To understand the election of 1994 it
                    is necessary to review the politics of the 1960s.
            
               The Sixties: From Memory to History is a thought-provoking collection of essays
                    about a decade that, as Farber notes, Americans "cannot seem to let … go gently
                    into the night" (p. 1). But that  might be just as
                    well. A decade that so changed the way Americans define themselves as a people and as a nation
                    deserves the scrutiny of the light of day as long as the shadows of fear, prejudice, and intolerance
                    continue to darken the current scene.
            MARY ANN WYNKOOP teaches history at the
                    University of 
                        Missouri
                    -
                        Kansas
                     City. She is beginning research for a history of the civil rights movement in 
                        Kansas
                     City since World War II, with special emphasis on the role of women activists.
         
         
            
               Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., and the Ideological History of American Liberalism.
                    By Stephen P. Depoe. (
                        Tuscaloosa
                    : University of 
                        Alabama
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xvii, 192. Notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            Stephen P. Depoe's book analyzing Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.'s, rhetoric coincides
                    in a timely way with the decline of liberalism in American life. His final sentence, "This
                    examination of Arthur Schlesinger's ideological history of American liberalism helps us to
                    understand the gradual and ongoing delegitimation of New Deal liberalism in America," was
                    confirmed by the November, 1994, elections (p. 136).
            Depoe does several things well. He provides, for example, a comprehensive listing of
                    Schlesinger's academic and popular writing. Depoe also clarifies Schlesinger's
                    view of the liberal and the conservative. The former "conceives of the state as a positive
                    means to promote ends of economic distribution and social justice," while the latter
                    "conceives of the state as an evil mechanism that intrudes without warrant into the free
                    marketplace" (p. 11).
            In addition, Depoe defines Schlesinger's role as an ideological rather than conventional
                    historian. While the conventional historian develops "arguments about
                    history," ideological historians like Schlesinger advance "arguments from history" (p. 18). For Schlesinger, "arguments about history can
                    serve as the basis for political arguments from history" (p. 131). As Depoe puts it,
                    Schlesinger was "never content to remain in an intellectual's ivory
                    tower" (p. 2), and he was especially critical of those who did. In rebuking traditional
                    historians, Schlesinger said, "The trouble is that American historians spend too much time
                    writing about events which the whole nature of their lives prevents them from understanding. Their
                    life is defined by universities, libraries, and seminars" (p. 2). Despite that, Schlesinger
                    is essentially out of touch with America's common people.
            For example, as Depoe points out, Schlesinger depends on heroes and heroic leadership to point the
                    "true" way. He found them in Andrew Jackson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and John F.
                    Kennedy. Given "the actual American public, which harbors strains of antiintellectualism
                    and is limited by the structure of representative 
                    government" (p. 13), Schlesinger argued that without the hero to lead, America would
                    "acquiesce in the drift of history" (p. 14).
            Such a view reflects one of the central failures of Schlesinger's brand of
                    liberal—elitism. In so doing, it ignores the most impressive reform movement of recent
                    history, the southern civil rights movement. Martin Luther King, Jr., was important, but that
                    southern struggle was primarily a local effort. Its essence is best captured in a conversation
                    between E. D. Nixon, 
                  Montgomery, Alabama
               , civil rights leader, and a local black woman. She
                    said to him, "Lord, I don't know what 'ud happened to the black people if
                    Rev. King hadn't went to town." To which Nixon responded, "If Mrs. [Rosa]
                    Parks had got up and given the white man her seat, you'd never aheard of Rev.
                    King." Until liberals like Schlesinger are willing to listen to "the
                    people," and stop talking only to each other, Depoe is correct in saying that liberalism is
                    delegitimized. (A must read for anyone interested in contemporary American liberalism is Leslie
                    Dunbar's 1991 Reclaiming Liberalism.)
            Although written for a specialized audience, Depoe's prose rarely lapses into dense jargon.
                    Those who choose to read this book for its insights into the status of liberalism in contemporary
                    America might skip the preface with sentences like this: "Leland Griffin has defined
                    rhetorical trajectory as 'the salience and/or sequencing of god and devil terms in a body
                    of discourse suggestive of the qualities, motivations, or state of mind of a speaker or writer, a
                    state of mind in which another state of mind can appropriately follow"’ (p.
                    xiii). It gets better.
            CHARLES J. BUSSEY is professor of history at Western 
                        Kentucky
                     University, Bowling Green. His special interest is in twentieth-century American social
                    justice movements. He will soon publish "Jimmy Carter: Hope and Memory Versus Optimism and
                    Nostalgia," in Elsebeth Hurup, ed., America in the Seventies: The Lost
                    Decade (forthcoming, 1995).
         
         
            
               Religion and the Racist Right: The Origins of the Christian Identity Movement.
                    By Michael Barkun. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xiii, 290. Notes, index. Cloth-bound, $39.95; paperbound,
                    $15.95.)
            This is an outstanding book on what, before the 
                        Oklahoma
                     City bombing, may have seemed an unlikely topic to some readers: the evolution of the
                    religious doctrines that have shaped America's modern right-wing extremist
                    groups—the Aryan Nations, the Order, and Posse Comitatus, among others. Few scholars have
                    even thought to take the religious views of such groups seriously, much less devote the incredible
                    amount of effort Michael Barkun has in piecing together obscure religious tracts scattered across
                    archives in Britain, 
                        Canada
                    , and the 
                        United States
                    . The result of Barkun's original undertaking is a book that for some time to
                    come should be  the starting point for anyone wishing to
                    understand the place of these small but dangerous groups in American society.
            The book's central argument is that America's various right-wing extremists, far
                    from having idiosyncratic religious views, have generally been influenced by a distinct religious
                    tradition: Christian Identity. Barkun devotes much of his book to detailing how Christian Identity
                    evolved from the beliefs of small groups of British-Israelites in late-nineteenth century Britain.
                    British-Israelites believed that the British people were "descendants of the ten
                    ‘lost tribes’ of 
                        Israel
                    ," a factor that in their view helped account for British greatness. As related
                    forms of Anglo-Israelism circulated in North America during the 1920s and 1930s, especially along
                    the Pacific Coast, from 
                        British Columbia
                     to Southern 
                        California
                    , belief in British greatness became belief in Aryan superiority and, even more
                    dramatically, philo-Semitism was transformed into rabid anti-Semitism. As Anglo-Israelism took root,
                    it became intertwined with a wide variety of religious and political organizations and influenced
                    the work of numerous apocalyptic writers. Pentacostalists, pyramidologists, Ku Klux Klan ideologues,
                    Henry Ford's 
                  
                            Dearborn
                         Independent, and Gerald L. K. Smith, among others, were influenced to various
                    degrees by Anglo-Israelism even if they were not tied to the movement's main organization,
                    the Anglo-Saxon Federation of America.
            After World War II, Christian Identity grew out of the remnants of this tradition. By the mid-1970s,
                    its "revolutionary millenarianism"—a belief in an approaching Armageddon between
                    the children of God (white Aryans) and the children of Satan (Jews)—was at the center of
                    the leading right-wing extremist movements in the 
                        United States
                    . Identity ideas would be particularly strong among survivalists, Tom Metzger's
                    White Aryan Resistance (WAR), the Aryan Nations, and others who sought to separate from the corrupt
                    authority of the government and other institutions, perhaps through the creation of a new, racially
                    pure nation somewhere in the western 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    .
            One of Barkun's more important findings is that the Identity movement did not represent an
                    offshoot of Protestant Fundamentalism. Identity theology rejects dispensational premillennialism,
                    particularly any notion that a "rapture" will spare true believers the hardship of
                    an ultimate battle against the forces of evil. Identity followers eagerly anticipate just such a
                    battle and reject any effort to stave it off through mainstream political reform efforts. These
                    ideological differences between Identity and Fundamentalism are well worth understanding. They
                    demonstrate the complex nature of the forces that have created the modern American right. It is
                    reasonable to wonder, however, if Barkun underestimates to some degree the connecting forces between
                    the mainstream and extremist right. Both Identity and Fundamentalist theology, after  all, share an apocalyptic vision, even if they disagree over exactly
                    how the final struggle with evil will unfold. And while the Christian Right of the 1970s, 1980s, and
                    1990s has been characterized by political activism rather than the brooding, dangerous separatism of
                    the extremists, issues of racial conflict and religious chauvinism have been at the center of both
                    mainstream and extreme right-wing movements.
            Even if the differences between the mainstream and radical right are somewhat more ambiguous than
                    Barkun suggests, this is a minor criticism of a remarkable work. In a field of scholarship where it
                    is easy to allow outrage and disapproval to substitute for serious analysis, Barkun has produced a
                    deep and sophisticated assessment of one of the important ongoing phenomena of modern American life.
            LEONARD MOORE is associate professor of history at McGill
                    University in Montreal and the author of Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in Indiana,
                        1921-1928 (1991).
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
