
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 79, Issue 4, pages 285-406. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:79+issue:4+year:1983&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Time for War: The Church of God's Response to 
                        North Vietnam
                    
            
            
                    Mitchell K. Hall
                    ∗
                
            War has always posed a dilemma for Christians. Biblical injunctions against killing are countered by
                    scriptural commands to submit to the authority of the state. While compassion has been one of the
                    most important Christian virtues, people have also committed many atrocities in the name of Christ.
                    To submit totally to the state may require one to participate in or support war. To refuse to
                    participate in war often forces a confrontation with the state. Christians have never been able to
                    agree on which path to follow.
            The 
                        North Vietnam
                     War raised innumerable moral questions for Americans. In addition to the question of
                    killing, the legality of the war, American intervention in Vietnamese political affairs, the
                    devastation of the population and land of 
                        North Vietnam
                    , and the manipulation of the American people by their government were all subjects of
                    bitter and prolonged debate. Examining the way in which the Church of God, a small Protestant
                    denomination, grappled with these issues sheds light on religious dilemmas posed by the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War and on the larger American response to that conflict.
            The Church of God sprang from the teachings of Daniel S. Warner just over one hundred years ago.
                    Nearly 180,000 people in the 
                        United States
                     claim to be regular members of the church, with an estimated 145,000 additional members
                    in more than sixty countries around the world.1 Within the 
                        United States
                     the church's strength lies in the Midwest, particularly 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Michigan
                    , and its general offices are located in Anderson, Indiana. Almost one third of the
                    church's adherents reside in the South, 
                  
                     ∗ Mitchell K. Hall is instructor of history and Ph.D.
                            candidate in the Department of History, University of 
                        Kentucky, Lexington
                     . He wishes to thank George C. Herring of the University
                            of 
                                Kentucky
                             and Jason H. Silverman of Yale University for their helpful comments on earlier
                            drafts of this essay.
                  
                     1
                            1982 Yearbook of the Church of God (Anderson, Ind., 1982),
                            257–58.
               
                     while the West furnishes one fifth of its membership. During
                    the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War roughly two thirds of the church population lived in cities of fewer than 50,000
                        people.2
            
            Theologically, the Church of God is part of the holiness tradition that rejects the inevitability of
                    sin and finds in the New Testament the cardinal teachings of the Bible. The church's early
                    teachings rejected sectarianism and formal membership and spurned rigid organization. The Church of
                    God has purposely avoided authoritative creeds as potentially divisive; thus, it is difficult to
                    attach a particular doctrinal label to it. Changes over time have brought some structural
                    organization, but local congregations have always been autonomous, and no individual or organization
                    can speak for the church in an official capacity. National policies are carried out primarily under
                    the auspices of the General Assembly, a voluntary organization of ministers that includes laymen who
                    serve on national committees or agencies; any pastor or ordained minister may attend assembly
                    meetings. The General Assembly holds no ecclesiastical authority, however. The Executive Council,
                    which is elected by the General Assembly, is actually responsible for the operations of the
                    individual agencies.3
            
            The Church of God has not dealt with the issue of war in a consistently pacifistic manner. There has
                    been pacifist influence from the beginning due to an influx of early converts from the historic
                    "peace" churches—the Church of the Brethren, Mennonites, and
                        Quakers.4 Nor has the church consistently endorsed military involvement in
                    America's wars, though a great many of its members have chosen to participate. Prior to the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War the Church of God consistently adhered to a "doctrine of personal
                    convictions" that supported individual choice, though at times this doctrine was accepted
                    only grudgingly by some members. In actual practice the church's position evolved from a
                    balanced attitude in World War I, with most eligible men serving in the military but strong moral
                    support being given to conscientious objectors, to a far more militant tone in World War II that
                    barely acknowledged the minority opposing the conflict. The church frequently has reflected
                    prevailing public attitudes, not only in times of war but also during the interwar peace movement.
                    In 1932 the General Ministerial Assembly (later renamed the General Assembly) passed a resolution
                    that stated in part: "We will never 
                  
                     2
                            1970 Yearbook of the Church of God (Anderson, Ind., 1970), passim.
                  
                  
                     3
                            Let's Get Acquainted with the Church of God (n.p., n.d.),
                            17–19.
                  
                     4 Interview with Robert Reardon, Anderson, Indiana, June 27,
                        1979.
               
                     again sanction or participate in any war…. We will
                    not give our financial or moral support to any war."5 The
                    church's post-World War II statements show halting attempts to return to a less aggressive
                    position, but nothing to approach the pacifist language of the 1930s.6
            
            The Church of God's response to the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War resembled that of the American people, with some important differences. Generally
                    the Church of God remained neutral throughout the war, respecting the decisions of each individual
                    without condemnation. At the outset most members appear to have endorsed American military
                    involvement, and a majority within the church probably supported the war, or at least did not oppose
                    it, for the duration. Despite the prevailing attitude a vocal and articulate opposition developed in
                    Church of God-sponsored Anderson College and its School of Theology; this opposition produced
                    attacks upon the war, the nation, and the church itself. This antiwar sentiment does not seem to
                    have grown as rapidly nor to have become as extensive as it did in the nation as a whole, but, while
                    it was relatively short-lived, it did provoke some reaction from within the church.
            During the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War the church's national agencies consistently supported the doctrine of
                    personal convictions. The General Assembly, which meets annually during the International Convention
                    of the Church of God, showed an increasing awareness of 
                        North Vietnam
                     as early as the summer of 1966. From that session came a new statement of conviction on
                    war and peace. The introduction recognized that the 
                        United States
                     government had provided for those who conscientiously opposed war and offered this
                    statement as moral and legal sanction for Church of God men who chose conscientious objection. While
                    calling war the consequence of moral failure, this document left to each individual freedom of
                    choice regarding military service. It neither approved nor condemned the war.7
            
            The Division of Church Service, which is responsible for serving ministers and churches, devoted an
                    increasing amount of time to draft counseling as the war escalated. In addition to validating claims
                    of conscientious objection, local draft boards required documentation 
                  
                     5 "Pacifism: In the Church of God?" Peace Fellowship Newsletter (January, 1978), 3.
                  
                     6 Resolution Passed by the General Ministerial Assembly of the Church
                            of God, Minutes of the General Ministerial Assembly of the Church of God, June 18, 1947,
                            Office of the Executive Secretary of the Executive Council of the Church of God, Anderson,
                            Indiana.
                  
                     7
                            Annual Report of the Church of God (n.p., 1966), 20.
               
                     that only the Division of Church Service could supply.
                    Counseling took the form of making known all available options and did not include suggesting one
                    alternative over another. The number of people asking for church support of their position as
                    conscientious objectors is difficult to ascertain, but the numbers seem to have increased as the war
                    progressed. From 1971 to 1973 fifty-five letters were received by the church requesting information
                    on conscientious objection. Twenty-six letters inquired about alternate work assignments, but only
                    two men accepted jobs. In addition to supplying local draft boards with information, the Division of
                    Church Service attempted to have the Church of God approved as a hiring agency for conscientious
                    objectors, but this request was turned down by the Selective Service System.8
            
            The issue of 
                        North Vietnam
                     also was addressed by the Commission on Social Concerns, which proposes appropriate
                    actions regarding personal, social, and civic matters. The commission sponsored several conferences
                    on war and the draft at the church's international conventions, made available a film on
                    draft alternatives which was widely used by the churches, and wrote resolutions for presentation to
                    the General Assembly. It generally tried to ensure that personal convictions were safeguarded and
                    made a conscious effort to maintain contact with the approximately forty Church of God men who by
                    1972 had fled to 
                        Canada
                    .9
            
            Debate on the war also began to appear in church periodicals, reflecting the growing public concern
                    with the war caused by such developments as the bombing of North 
                        North Vietnam
                    , the landing of American combat troops at Danang, and the series of antiwar
                    demonstrations that swept the country. The first serious discussion appeared in the January 16,1966,
                    issue of Vital Christianity, the primary church publication. "Viet Nam:
                    My View," by Robert Hartley, a non-Church of God journalist, defended American intervention
                    in 
                        North Vietnam
                     on moral grounds. Hartley supported the use of military force to achieve a
                    "fair" negotiated settlement and rejected pacifism as "incredibly
                    naive." He went on to say that "our military involvement there is morally right,
                    just and essential. I talked to no one in Viet Nam who felt that there was a moral alternative to
                    our troop buildup and increasing air strikes."10
            
            
               
                  8 Interview with Roscoe Snowden, director of the Division of Church
                        Service, Church of God, Anderson, Indiana, June, 1978.
               
                  9 Minutes of the Meetings of the Commission on Social Concerns, January 5,
                        1972, located in Office of the Executive Secretary of the Executive Council of the Church of
                        God, Anderson, Indiana.
               
                  10 Robert Hartley, "Viet Nam: My View," Vital Christianity, LXXXVI (January 16, 1966), 5.
            
            
            Hartley's article occasioned the first wave of Church of God opinion on 
                        North Vietnam
                    . Letters both supported and opposed the war, and although editorials and letters to
                    editors are of limited value as indexes of public opinion, they do reveal the varying reactions to
                    the war. Supporters thought of themselves as realists, rejecting pacifism and defending limited war
                    as a means of preventing total war. Others believed that military action in 
                        North Vietnam
                     could have been prevented by total war in 
                        Korea
                    , but given the reality of North Vietnamese aggression the 
                        United States
                     was reacting in the appropriate manner. As one person wrote, "If our country
                    had listened to Gen. Douglas MacArthur in 
                        Korea
                     we would not now have boys dying in 
                        North Vietnam
                    ."11
            
            Those opposing the war rejected violence as a solution to international problems and criticized the
                    militarism of American foreign policy. Nonetheless, pacifism did not seem to be a major force behind
                    this initial opposition. While few letters expressed clear reasons for their opinions, one did state
                    that the government needed to provide more proof that military intervention was required. It is
                    important to note that opponents of the war felt that their position was in the minority, implying
                    that the majority of church members supported the war at that time. As one commented, "A
                    surprising number of people oppose our government action, but do not want to ‘stick their
                    necks out’ as I do…."12
            
            The summer of 1967 proved to be a turning point in American public opinion on 
                        North Vietnam
                    . Individual antiwar protests across the nation drew over 100,000 people. In July, for
                    the first time, public support for the war dropped below 50 percent, and in October a Gallup poll
                    revealed that opponents outnumbered supporters.13 Within months President Lyndon
                    B. Johnson would decide not to run for reelection in the certainty that the war had cost him his
                    chance for victory.
            The summer of 1967 also marked the beginning of a change in the Church of God. Political activism had
                    never been widely accepted within the church, a common feature of conservative denominations. In
                    fact, during the most intense days of the civil rights struggle, the church was divided not so much
                    on the need for civil rights as on the morality of marches, sit-ins, and demonstrations to gain
                    those rights. An article in Vital Christianity's 
                  
                     11 Quote from letter from L.E. Lautaret, ibid. (May
                            1, 1966), 15. Other letters along the same lines included those from Rolla O. Swisher, ibid. (February 6, 1966), 15; and Walden O. Myers, ibid.
                            (April 17, 1966), 15.
                  
                     12 Quote from letter from Mrs. Mildred Monroe, ibid.
                            (February 20, 1966), 15.
                  
                     13 John E. Mueller, "Trends in Popular Support for the Wars
                            in 
                                Korea
                             and 
                                North Vietnam
                            ," American Political Science Review, LXV (June,
                            1971), 358–75.
               
                     issue of July 2, 1967, however, was prophetic of more active
                    political involvement among members of the Church of God. The Reverend Marvin Hartman of
                            
                  St. Joseph, Michigan
               , pointed out that many Christians of all denominations were
                    tiring of the church's lack of a deeper involvement in the social problems of the world.
                    Hartman implied that social involvement was a moral responsibility and was an essential part of the
                    Christian faith. Interestingly, the article did not create much of a response.14
            
            At the end of 1967 Vital Christianity published two articles that stimulated more
                    response than had the Hartley article two years prior. In the November 5 issue, in the column
                    "Let's Talk It Over," a writer asked for discussion of American
                    involvement in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . The reply by the Reverend W.A. Donaldson of 
                        Detroit
                     recognized the two opposing viewpoints on the subject and stated: "The
                    Christian must be opposed to war, diametrically and unequivocally." He went on to argue,
                    however, that although war was to be abhorred and served God no purpose, the surrender of South 
                        North Vietnam
                     to communism would be a greater evil. He affirmed the validity of the "domino
                    theory," warned of the barbarism of the North Vietnamese communists, and argued that
                    pacifism had helped to provoke war by giving the appearance of weakness. He wrote that a decision to
                    leave South 
                        North Vietnam
                     would be a "simple-headedness that borders on the sinful." His fear
                    of communism was based on the belief that institutions favorable to Christianity would be
                    obliterated under communist rule.15
            
            Reaction to this article was restrained. Those speaking against it generally asked that an
                    alternative view be published because many Christians could not accept the Donaldson position in
                    good conscience. In an attempt to present both sides fairly, editor-in-chief Harold Phillips asked
                    Maurice Caldwell of the Commission on Social Concerns to give his views; his response was published
                    in the December 17 issue. 
                        Caldwell
                     criticized Dean Rusk, Hubert Humphrey, and President Johnson for continuing to escalate
                    the war. He argued that American military policy had failed to achieve either capitulation of the
                    enemy or peace negotiations and questioned the human and financial costs of the war.
                    Pentagon-controlled news releases, he implied, were biased and incomplete. Another concern was the
                    negative effect the war had on missionary work, particularly in underdeveloped nations. 
                        Caldwell
                     also approved of the growing protest against the war. While his article 
                  
                     14 Marvin J. Hartman, "Concerning Religion and
                            Politics," Vital Christianity, LXXXVII (July 2, 1967),
                            7–8.
                  
                     15 W.A. Donaldson, "Let's Talk It Over,"
                                ibid. (November 5, 1967), 11.
               
                     stressed the practical reasons for ending the war, a strain of
                    morality was also visible in his support of self-determination and his unqualified belief that no
                    war is within the will of God.16 This antiwar argument would soon become more
                    prominent.
            Response to this article was large in volume and generally supported the government's
                    position. Writers argued that 
                        North Vietnam
                     represented a confrontation between communism and democracy and expressed faith in the
                    domino theory. The aversion to communism that pervaded the Church of God, and American society as
                    well, grew out of the Cold War mentality and was based on two assumptions. The first was that the
                    goal of communism was to overthrow free nations violently and substitute a totalitarian form of
                    government. The other was that the atheistic nature of communism neccessarily repressed religious
                    institutions and practices. For the dedicated Christian, choosing between this type of domination
                    and participation in war was often an agonizing decision.
            Many writers expressed bitterness toward the peace movement. One wrote: "I read…
                    that a recent Harris Poll shows that 46% of U.S. citizens are opposed to our 
                        North Vietnam
                     policy. I wonder, how many of these are communist?"17 Another believed that
                    peace efforts were counterproductive and stated: "The American in me is ashamed that a
                    minority of my countrymen are actually prolonging this war."18 A third
                    letter went even further: "We don't carry signs, have sit-ins, burn draft cards,
                    or those other near-treasonous things…."19
            
            Protestors often were attacked for their lifestyles as well as for their antiwar politics. This
                    antagonistic attitude toward the antiwar movement was by no means unique to the Church of God. A
                    Harris poll taken late in 1967 showed that a large majority of the public felt that antiwar
                    demonstrations encouraged the communists and damaged the war effort.20 The fury expressed toward the
                    peace movement may well have exceeded the eventual hatred of the war itself. Those people supporting
                    the war obviously were antagonistic toward the peace movement, and many of those dissatisfied with
                    the war actually favored increased military involvement 
                  
                     16 Maurice Caldwell, "Let's Talk It Over,"
                                ibid. (December 17, 1967), 11.
                  
                     17 Quote from letter from Mrs. Harold Booyer, ibid.,
                            LXXXVIII (January 28, 1968), 23.
                  
                     18 Quote from letter from Master Sergeant Louis E. Godby, ibid. (February 11, 1968), 23.
                  
                     19 Quote from letter from Doug Vermillion, quoting a letter he
                            received from a soldier in 
                                North Vietnam
                            , Andersonian, December 19, 1967.
                  
                     20 Louis Harris, The Anguish of Change (
                                New York
                            , 1973), 66–67.
               
                     in 
                        North Vietnam
                     rather than withdrawal. Much of the criticism directed toward the peace movement also
                    encompassed the counterculture that was often associated with the antiwar forces.
            Some defended American policy in 
                        North Vietnam
                     in humanitarian terms as the support of a legitimate government against outside
                    aggression, while others felt that military occupation provided a better atmosphere for mission
                        work.21 One letter shows the growing division among Church of God people
                    over the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War: 
                        More than we may care to admit the spreading of the gospel has and still does depend in part
                            on holding the sword. If this be heresy, make the most of it. … I share the
                            concern of what is happening. However, unlike this writer [
                                Caldwell
                            ], I see the source of the problem in Moscow and Peking, not in 
                                Washington
                            .
                        … We have mission work in South 
                                Korea
                             but none in the north. Why? Because at the line of demarcation there are some
                            thousands of American men with haircuts, all wearing shoes, each one of them knowing the
                            folly of a wilted flower held limply in an unwashed paw as a contribution to peace. What is
                            true of 
                                Korea
                             is also true of 
                                North Vietnam
                            .
                        I feel that Mr. Caldwell's strictures of the President, the Vice-President, and Dean
                            Rusk are, to say the least, in decidedly bad taste. Frankly, I find it difficult not to use
                            stronger terms!22
                  
                     In the months immediately following the appearance of the 
                        Caldwell
                     article, letters to the editor supported the war by more than two to one.
            The year 1968 marked some distinctive changes in the attitudes of many Americans toward the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War. American involvement in 
                        North Vietnam
                     became increasingly unpopular as many became discouraged by the apparent lack of
                    success, most dramatically demonstrated by the Tet Offensive in South 
                        North Vietnam
                    .23 As public opinion began to crystalize, it shifted away from
                    approval of escalation and toward support for withdrawal of American troops.24 In the face of
                    growing antiwar demonstrations, some 
                  
                     21 See letter from Mrs. Harold Booyer, Vital
                                Christianity, LXXXVIII (January 28, 1968), 23; letter from Master Sergeant Louis E.
                            Godby, ibid. (February 11, 1968), 23; letter from Russell C. Wilson, ibid.
                  
                  
                     22 Letter from L.P. Krogh, ibid. (January 28, 1968),
                            23.
                  
                     23 The Tet Offensive was a large-scale attack by the Vietcong against
                            the major urban areas of South 
                                North Vietnam
                            . Despite an American tactical victory, the magnitude of the assault raised
                            serious doubts about the credibility of the Lyndon B. Johnson administration's
                            earlier claims that great progress was being made. For more information on the Tet
                            Offensive, see George C. Herring, America's Longest War: The 
                                    United States
                                 and 
                                    North Vietnam
                                , 1950–1975 (
                                New York
                            , 1979), 183–216; Bernard Brodie, "The Tet
                            Offensive," in Noble Frankland and Christopher Dowling, eds., Decisive
                                Battles of the Twentieth Century: Land, Sea, Air (
                                London
                            , 1976), 321–34; and Don Oberdorfer, Tet! (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1971).
                  
                     24 William L. Lunch and Peter W. Sperlich, "American Public
                            Opinion and the War in 
                                North Vietnam
                            ," Western Political Quarterly, XXXII (March, 1979),
                            30–32.
               
                     national political leaders started to question
                    America's intervention. While most of the opposition to the war was born of futility, some
                    was provoked by issues such as the indiscriminate destruction of life and land in 
                        North Vietnam
                    , the taint of imperialism, and the lawlessness of governmental repression of the peace
                    movement. The outcome of the war itself no longer mattered. Because this minority perceived the war
                    as immoral, the 
                        United States
                     came under attack for its continued involvement in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . As the nation came under closer scrutiny, the war was often seen as symptomatic of a
                    society that was failing to deal adequately with any of its moral crises.
            This growing split in American society over the war was reflected in the Church of God. Attitudes
                    within the Church of God are harder to measure without the availability of scientific surveys, but
                    there is no solid evidence that a majority of the church opposed the war at this time. Though the
                    majority of the members of the Church of God seems to have continued to support the war, the
                    opponents represented a substantial and growing minority.25 Much of this
                    opposition to the war was based on moral grounds and went beyond the war itself. The focal point was
                    at Anderson College and the School of Theology, both located in Anderson, Indiana. The enrollment of
                    Anderson College in this period was approximately 1,800; of the School of Theology, approximately
                    100. Both schools were general agencies of the Church of God, with the majority of their students
                    and faculty affiliated with the church. While they maintained a significant level of activity, the
                    peace forces did not employ the confrontational tactics often used at other universities during the
                    war. With the Church of God maintaining its position of individual conscience, a minority within the
                    church began to see this apparent neutrality as an indication that the Church of God was a part of
                    the very elements of society that they opposed. The war provided a catalyst for critical attacks on
                    both the country and church.
            As early as the summer of 1967, a growing number of church members, especially young people, began to
                    voice their political opinions publicly. An editorial in the Anderson College newspaper, the Andersonian, made this suggestion two months after the Hartman article appeared in
                        Vital Christianity: "Although it might be a risky solution at best,
                    it appears that the U.S., for the sake of her own best interest, should start a slow but deliberate
                    withdrawal from her commitment in 
                        North Vietnam
                    , while encouraging 
                  
                     25 Mitchell K. Hall, "A Time for War: The Church of
                            God's Response to 
                                North Vietnam
                            " (M.A. Thesis, Department of History, University of 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1980), 49.
               
                     the new government in 
                        North Vietnam
                     to take more responsibility upon itself."26
            
            In the March 22,1968, issue of the Andersonian, two students expressed their
                    opposition to the war and the draft. Robert Turner wrote of the lack of moral choices open to those
                    facing the draft. Claiming to be a selective objector, he saw as his only alternatives either
                    committing murder in 
                        North Vietnam
                     or committing a felony in the 
                        United States
                    . Addressing himself to the question of whether or not to escape the draft to 
                        Canada
                    , he stated: "There can be no moral exodus to 
                        Canada
                     to avoid the draft; it must be an exodus to avoid the 
                        United States
                    ."27 Tony Wolfe attacked the draft as an outgrowth of
                    misguided attitudes within the 
                        United States
                     which he found prevalent at the college. According to Wolfe, the draft made killing the
                    primary criterion of courage, promoted violence as a solution to world problems, and removed
                    society's 
                  
                     26
                            Andersonian, September 22, 1967; the editorial was written by Carl E.
                            Kramer.
                  
                     27 Robert Turner in "Modern Issues Forum," ibid., March 22, 1968.
               
                    
                  CROSSES AT ANDERSON COLLEGE, OCTOBER, 1969, MEMORIALIZING YOUTH
                                WHO DIED IN VIETNAM
                  
                  Courtesy Anderson College.
               
                     moral agents by giving automatic deferments to ministers and
                    thereby preventing criticism from them. He called for America to admit to a mistake in 
                        North Vietnam
                     or suffer continued internal disintegration. To him, confronting the government on this
                    point was morally justifiable because "legality is not morality."28
            
            Opposition to the war at Anderson College was by no means limited to the young, however. The Church
                    of God Peace Fellowship, orginally founded in the 1930s, never enjoyed much support within the
                    church, but it did try to keep the issues of peace alive. The Peace Fellowship and similar groups
                    generally met on or near campuses and, while containing a number of students, were not dominated by
                    them. College instructors were often blamed by more conservative pastors and laymen for the liberal
                    attitudes of the students. Some faculty members did indeed put their thoughts on the war into
                    writing, and the majority of these seemed opposed to it.29
            
            As opposition to the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War grew within the church, it became more related to other issues in American society.
                    Disgust and disillusionment with both the nation and the church was apparent by 1968. Many members
                    condemned the church for failing to take a Christian stand throughout the conflict. The most
                    remarkable words in this vein were written by Michael Anderson and appeared in Vital
                        Christianity just before Christmas, 1968. He looked at 
                        North Vietnam
                     as part of a larger question. Just as student demonstrators were claiming that American
                    society itself must change, Anderson asked for the church to change in order to become meaningful to
                    his generation. He wrote: "I feel that a great many young people do not believe that God is
                    dying or dead, but rather that the church as an institution is the one in danger. And only when the
                    church begins to become relevant to today's world in a meaningful way will it regain its
                    vitality and leading role in the world…."30
            
            Dissent within the church seemed to increase during the summer of 1969, and that fall antiwar
                    students at Anderson organized the Student Mobilization Committee Against War in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . Their stated objectives were to promote student opposition to the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War, to encourage conscientious objection, to serve as a vehicle for nonviolent
                    dissent, and to counteract apathy through 
                  
                     28 Tony Wolfe in ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 For further information, see letters in Andersonian, November 10, 1967, January 17, 1969, May 2, 1969; and Gene W. Newberry,
                            "O Beautiful for 
                                Patriot
                             Dream," Vital Christianity, XCI (July 11, 1971), 4.
                  
                     30 Letter from Michael Anderson, Vital Christianity,
                            LXXXVIII (December 15, 1968), 23.
               
                     organized activism.31 This group had not
                    yet received official sanction from the college, and its chairman, Gene Cupp, wrote that it had met
                    some resistance from the administration. Not until February was the Student Mobilization Committee,
                    renamed the Anderson Peace Committee, given official status as a campus organization.32 Several other peace-oriented groups were meeting both on and off campus. An antiwar
                    moratorium was held on campus that October in conjunction with the national demonstrations,33 and the following month twenty-four students traveled to 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , to participate in the national moratorium.34
            
            At the height of the national demonstrations against the war, opinions around Anderson College seemed
                    to be moving in a dovish direction. The formation of the Anderson Peace Committee indicates this
                    trend, as do various statements issued on campus, including the following from the Andersonian: "Because it is the leaders and not the people who continue the
                    policies, the insanity will continue."35 The college still did not act
                    in solidarity, however. Although supporters of the war rarely advocated their position publicly,
                    many students, probably a majority, still backed the administration. In a series of mock elections
                    held during the 1968 presidential campaign, students favored Richard Nixon over peace candidates
                    Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy.36 In the fall of 1969 members of the student
                    government sent a letter to President Nixon urging a rapid conclusion to the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War. A petition, sent in reply to this letter, was signed by more than 500 students
                    (roughly 25 percent of the student population) and supported the president's policies in 
                        North Vietnam
                    .37
            
            As in other American universities in the spring of 1970, antiwar activities continued at Anderson
                    College. Meetings of the Anderson Peace Committee drew around fifty students, and editorials in the
                        Andersonian remained strongly antiwar. With President Nixon's
                    announcement of the American invasion of 
                        Cambodia
                    , American campuses erupted in protest. The resulting demonstrations and university
                    shutdowns caused campus unrest 
                  
                     31 Letter from Gene Cupp, Andersonian, September 26,
                            1969.
                  
                     32
                            Andersonian, February 6, 1970.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., October 10, 1969.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., November 21, 1969.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., October 10, 1969.
                  
                     36 The results of the first ballot were Richard Nixon, 66 votes;
                            George Wallace, 59; Eugene McCarthy, 53; Nelson Rockefeller, 48; and Robert Kennedy, 37; see
                                ibid., May 24, 1968.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., November 21, 1969.
               
                    
                    
                  PLANTING "TREE OF LIFE"
                                AT CEREMONY FOR VIETNAM WAR VICTIMS, ANDERSON COLLEGE,
                                OCTOBER 15, 1969
                  Courtesy Anderson College News.
                to replace the war as the nation's number one concern for the first time since
                    1965. The Anderson College newspaper responded in a distraught and weary tone: "The 
                        North Vietnam
                     War, with all its immoralities and divisiveness, is now the Indochina War. The only
                    hope is that those who were sensitive enough to protest before will do it again and that
                    reinforcements will be added from the silent majority."38
            
            The response to President Nixon's invasion of 
                        Cambodia
                     also indicates the strength of the prowar faction on campus. The Harris public opinion
                    surveys in May indicated that 48 percent of the American public approved of the Cambodian operation,
                    while 39 percent opposed it.39 The result of Anderson College's
                    participation 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., May 8, 1970.
                  
                     39 Louis Harris and Associates, Inc., The Harris Survey
                                Yearbook of Public Opinion, 1970: A Compendium of Current American Attitudes (
                                New York
                            , 1971), 124
               
                     in a national referendum is also revealing. Of the 561 opinions
                    registered, 49 percent responded yes to the question, "Do you agree with the 
                        United States
                     decision to dispatch ground troops to 
                        Cambodia
                    ?" Another 46 percent responded no, with 5 percent having no opinion.40 This suggests a deep and nearly even division among students on the war
                    issue. The rest of the Church of God's membership would most likely have been more
                    supportive, given the campus population's leading role in war opposition.
            The protests of young Americans against the Cambodian invasion ultimately resulted in death on
                    American campuses. At 
                        Kent
                     State in 
                        Ohio
                     national guardsmen killed four students and wounded nine others in a needless burst of
                    rifle fire. Two weeks later police sprayed a Jackson State dormitory, killing two and wounding
                    several more.41 The shootings at 
                        Kent
                     State and Jackson State aroused quick reaction tinged with anger and warning. A survey
                    of the writings of these younger people indicated strong alienation and polarization. For several
                    months these attitudes had been implicit in their expressions, but now they were breaking out with
                    renewed intensity. Vital Christianity published this letter from the chairman of
                    the Peace Committee on June 14, 1970: 
                        You, older America, wonder why your youth seem to turn away from you. But you create
                            "conspiracies" to justify the reasons for failures at home and
                            abroad…. you have been so busy amusing yourselves, waging senseless war, and
                            becoming an affluent society that you have neglected your young.42
                  
                    
                
            This type of reaction should not be surprising, given the deep divisions in the 
                        United States
                     in 1970. Many Americans felt that the primary causes of campus unrest were
                    irresponsible, militant, revolutionary students and radical professors. Antiwar protests were
                    condemned, while Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew was lauded. Agnew was noted for his verbal attacks on
                    antiwar protestors, referring to them as "an effete corps of impudent snobs."43 On the other side, many college students respected draft evaders and believed
                    that protest would speed up social change; a full 58 percent agreed that "the 
                        United States
                     had become a highly repressive 
                  
                     40
                            Andersonian, May 22, 1970.
                  
                     41 Student opposition to the Cambodian invasion was greatly aggravated
                            by these incidents. Hundreds of colleges across the nation were scenes of protest, and a
                            large number were closed down either by student or administrative action.
                  
                     42 Gene Cupp, "A Voice from Younger America," Vital Christianity, XC (June 14, 1970), 23.
                  
                     43 Quoted in Jonathan Schell, The Time of Illusion (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 56.
               
                     society, intolerant of dissent."44
                    With such divergent opinions prevalent in society, the Church of God could not have expected to be
                    isolated from confrontation.
            Many individuals in the Church of God recognized that students had been among the first to take a
                    stand against the war.45 Concerned about the morality of American involvement
                    and worried about the draft, students and faculty kept the issue of 
                        North Vietnam
                     very much alive at the college. According to President Robert Reardon, who has worked
                    at Anderson College in some capacity since 1947, "the most turbulent period in the history
                    of this institution, as far as the students were concerned, was the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War. The hostility, the anger, [and] frustration just kept building and
                        building…."46 Despite the perceived presence of alleged
                    subversives and radicals and incidents such as the discovery of a bomb in one student's
                        car,47 the Anderson campus did not erupt. The small size and religious
                    nature of the school contributed to this. The administration itself was tolerant and even
                    sympathetic toward the peace forces.48
            
            The surge of antiwar activity following the Cambodian incursion eventually provoked the church
                    agencies to face the issue. It appears that some church leaders wanted to make a statement on the
                    war without alienating either supporters or opponents. In 1969 the church's traditional
                    doctrine of personal convictions was reaffirmed in a booklet entitled So This Is the
                        Church of God, published by the Executive Council. This statement noted that many doctrinal
                    issues were left to individual interpretation and mentioned that the majority of Church of God men
                    had served in the military without question, while a smaller number had been conscientious
                        objectors.49 This statement has been dropped from subsequent similar
                    booklets, implying that it came in response to a particular need.
            Many individuals in the church fell back on the doctrine of personal convictions as a means of
                    maintaining unity. In reply to the outrage over the 
                        Kent
                     State killings, a group of thirty-seven laymen, professors, and pastors wrote an open
                    letter to Vital Christianity addressed to the young people of the church. The
                    letter endorsed the doctrine of personal convictions and stated in 
                  
                     44 Harris, Harris Survey Yearbook, 1970, p. 315.
                  
                     45 Interview with Hollis Pistole, Church of God School of Theology,
                            Anderson, Indiana, March 8, 1979.
                  
                     46 Interview with Robert Reardon.
                  
                            47
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     48 Carl E. Kramer to 
                                Mitchell
                             Hall, July 28, 1979.
                  
                     49
                            So This Is the Church of God (Anderson, Ind., 1969), 26.
               
                     part that "we support those who take the unpopular
                    position of the conscientious objector to war…."50 This
                    implies that conscientious objection was an unpopular and therefore presumably a minority practice,
                    lending credence to the contention that the majority of the church continued to support the war.
            Surprisingly, perhaps the most visible response, and certainly the most controversial one, came from
                    the General Assembly in 1970. While the 
                        United States
                     Senate was repealing the Gulf of Tonkin resolution51 in the summer
                    of that year, the General Assembly was debating a resolution on 
                        North Vietnam
                    . The resolution supported the right to speak out against the war and called upon
                    individual members of the church to educate themselves regarding the issues created by the war. The
                    text was mildly worded and contained no direct condemnation of the war. The strongest language asked
                    only that the General Assembly "affirm its support of the right of individuals in its midst
                    conscientiously and prayerfully to write, speak, and act peacefully in opposition to those
                    particular injustices which they conscientiously feel have occurred as a result of the war in 
                        North Vietnam
                    …,"52
            
            This resolution had been submitted to the business committee of the assembly by a group of some two
                    dozen people. The business committee, which decides what items to present on the floor, would not
                    submit the resolution in its original form because committee members did not agree with its position
                    and feared it might be divisive. The final resolution was weakened but remained substantially the
                    same in content.53
            
            Debate on the resolution was often emotional and was not always directed toward the resolution
                    itself. The general mood of the assembly appeared hawkish. Many who spoke against the resolution
                    equated Christian responsibility with support for American policies in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . One member went so far as to say that if the resolution were passed it would give aid
                    and comfort to the enemy. Another mentioned hearing rumors that there would be a peace demonstration
                    at the upcoming international youth convention in Dallas. The chairman of the Board of Christian
                    Education declared that the rumors were unfounded. When debate was closed, the resolution was
                    decisively defeated.54
            
            
               
                  50
                        Vital Christianity, XC (August 9, 1970), 22.
               
                  51 A Senate resolution passed in August, 1964, giving the president broad
                        authorization to escalate the 
                            North Vietnam
                         War. This resolution provided the legal basis for further military intervention in 
                            North Vietnam
                        .
               
                  52
                        Colloquium (February, 1971), 2–3.
               
                  53
                        Ibid., 3.
               
                        54
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            There are several plausible reasons for this vote. Many opposed the resolution because they did not
                    want to appear unpatriotic or antigovernment. Some probably feared retribution from their local
                    congregations. Still others, irritated by war resisters and protests, voted in reaction to antiwar
                    demonstrations.
            The General Assembly's failure to pass a mild resolution on 
                        North Vietnam
                     at a time when the Gallup polls showed that 56 percent of the American public opposed
                    the war is a clear indication of that body's position. Some researchers have concluded that
                    during the war the Protestant clergy was slightly more opposed to the war than was the general
                        population.55 If these findings hold true for the Church of God, then its
                    congregations would appear to be even more hawkish than its conservative assembly.
            The church's response to the growing dissent on 
                        North Vietnam
                     failed to appease the peace forces. The General Assembly's defeat of the 1970
                    peace resolution provoked strong reactions from several church publications. The harshest response
                    came in the February, 1971, issue of Colloquium, a Church of God publication. An
                    editorial called the defeat of the resolution a mistake and criticized the General Assembly for
                    being preoccupied with superficial unity, fearful of and unprepared for debate, occasionally
                    irrational and trivial, unable to apply theory to concrete action, and for succumbing to the
                    "idolatry of nationalism."56
            
            Particularly biting was an article by Richard Freer in the March, 1971, issue of Colloquium. Speaking of the church's position on the draft, he complained:
                    "The Church of God has, recently, dealt with the draft as it has with other critical and
                    controversial issues confronting it. It has come kicking and screaming to the fray, saying and doing
                    as little as possible then retreating…,"57 He went on to
                    suggest that a strong statement on war might split the church, thus preventing a forthright stand on
                    any controversial issue. Criticism of the General Assembly's handling of and failure to
                    pass the peace resolution in 1970 was partly responsible for the passage the following year of a
                    mild peace resolution similar to the 1966 resolution that had supported conscientious objection and
                    opposed war in the abstract without mentioning 
                        North Vietnam
                     by name.58
            
            As autumn arrived, the war began to recede from public view. Although organized discussions related
                    to the war still drew groups 
                  
                     55 Harold E. Quinley, "The Protestant Clergy and the War in 
                                North Vietnam
                            ," Public Opinion Quarterly, XXXIV (Spring, 1970),
                            46.
                  
                     56
                            Colloquium (February, 1971), 3.
                  
                     57 Richard K. Freer, "Conscientious Objection," ibid. (March, 1971), 5–6.
                  
                     58
                            Annual Report of the Church of God (n.p., 1971), 24–26.
               
                     of interested students at Anderson College late in the year,
                    their activism had been spent, as was the case on most of the nation's campuses. The
                    reasons for this apparent lack of interest are not entirely clear. With the gradual withdrawal of
                    American troops from 
                        North Vietnam
                    , many people must have believed that the war was ending and that there was no further
                    need to demonstrate. Some probably thought that public protest was no longer effective. Others may
                    have been placated by the recent draft reform. Many had simply grown tired after months of
                    confronting the 
                        United States
                     government. With American involvement in 
                        North Vietnam
                     drawing to a close, the Church of God continued to de-emphasize the war in 1972. The
                    national agencies now limited themselves to occasional statements on draft alternatives.
            How then, did the Church of God deal with the issues and dilemmas posed by the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War? Throughout the war a majority of members of the church probably supported the
                    American commitment in 
                        North Vietnam
                    . While it is impossible to obtain an accurate measure, several Church of God leaders
                    believe that public expressions against the war by clergymen were rare. As Dr. Hollis Pistole of the
                    Church of God School of Theology commented, "I dare say you wouldn't have found
                    one out of ten [pastors] that would have said ‘I preached in opposition to the war in 
                        North Vietnam
                    .’"59 Ministerial opponents of the war were more
                    likely to speak out publicly than ministers who supported the war.60 This lack
                    of a vocal antiwar element in the Church of God implies that opposition was relatively minor among
                    its ministers.
            The church's reaction to antiwar protest varied, but disapproval was easily the most common
                        attitude.61 The few approving remarks were far outweighed by hostile and
                    bitter responses. Not until late 1969 did a church publication speak in favor of the right to
                    protest, and this comment was more than offset by the rejection of the 1970 peace resolution. There
                    is also evidence that the men who fled to other countries to avoid the draft were stigmatized by
                    some within the church. The predominant attitude in the Church of God toward the peace movement
                    corresponded to national attitudes. A significant opposition to the war did develop, and some
                    members shifted away from a strong supporting position to opposition; but this shift lagged behind
                    that of the general public both in timing and in degree.
            
               
                  59 Interview with Hollis Pistole.
               
                  60 Quinley, "Protestant Clergy," 49.
               
                  61 For examples, see letters from L.P. Krogh, Vital
                            Christianity, LXXXVIII (January 28, 1968), 23; Mrs. Harold Booyer, ibid.; and Master Sergeant Louis E. Godby, ibid. (February 11, 1968),
                    23
            
            
            The Church of God's apparent support for the war derived to a considerable extent from its
                    constituency. The church is made up of the very groups that pollsters found most likely to support
                    the 
                        North Vietnam
                     conflict; Protestants, residents of smaller cities and towns, and those living in the
                    Midwest, South, and West were consistently less likely to favor bombing halts and more likely to
                    consider themselves hawks. These same groups also tended to be conservative on issues such as racial
                    integration and student strikes, which suggests that the church's support for the war was
                    part of a conservative political outlook in general.62
            
            Within the Church of God, opposition to the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War was primarily centered at Anderson College and the School of Theology. Of the
                    letters on 
                        North Vietnam
                     printed in the Andersonian, 75 percent opposed the war. While these
                    letters do not necessarily reflect campus opinion, they constitute a far greater percentage of
                    antiwar letters than appeared in Vital Christianity, which more nearly represented
                    a cross-section of the church population. Editorials in the Andersonian,
                    particularly from 1968 to 1970, strongly opposed the war, while Vital Christianity
                    never took a definite stand.
            Although it was divided over the war, the Church of God avoided major schism. This was, to a large
                    extent, due to its observance of the doctrine of personal convictions. The division that did arise
                    was manifest in the isolation felt by some of the more liberal elements in the church, particularly
                    students. Many of the letters quoted above give ample evidence of this. Some of the seminary
                    students left school "in the rebellion against what they thought was the Church's
                    indifference as well as the national indifference."63 The comments made
                    by many of the younger people are understandable in light of the silence of the church at large.
            The effects of the war opposition on the church as a whole do not appear to have been significant.
                    The early protests no doubt spurred debate on 
                        North Vietnam
                    , with this debate increasing as the conflict dragged on and finally reaching
                    significant proportions. The concrete results of this debate were minimal; it provoked only a
                    handful of statements and resolutions supporting a status quo neutrality. The church's
                    rapid disengagement from the war issue 
                  
                     62 Gallup International, Inc., Gallup Opinion Index:
                                Political, Social, and Economic Trends, Report 29, November, 1967, p. 8; ibid., Report 33, March, 1968, pp. 7, 8; ibid., Report
                            35, May, 1968, p. 20; ibid., Report 37, July, 1968, p. 15; ibid., Report 40, October, 1968, p. 25; ibid., Report 61, July,
                            1970, p. 22.
                  
                     63 Interview with Hollis Pistole.
               
                     underscores its relief at leaving 
                        North Vietnam
                     behind. The only obvious long-term result is that the church undoubtedly lost some of
                    its members; aside from this, it probably was changed very little by the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War.
            When the next war comes, how will the Church of God respond? Dr. Hollis Pistole stated: "I
                    think if we were to get involved in … a 
                        North Vietnam
                     thing again … by and large pastors would tend to support what the government
                    position would be."64 This view implies consistency in the Church of
                    God's response to external conflicts, and at this juncture it remains only speculative.
                    Considering the church's response to the 
                        North Vietnam
                     conflict, however, Dr. Pistole's prediction is indeed a convincing one.
            
               
                        64
                        Ibid.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Draftee's Wife: A Memoir of World War II
            
                    Virginia Mayberry
                    ∗
                
            
               Editor's note. The following essay differs from the typical wartime
                    reminiscence in at least two ways. While most such reminiscences deal with events in the more
                    distant past—with the Civil War an especially popular topic—
                        Virginia
                     Mayberry's memoir is concerned with World War II, a conflict which occurred
                    well within living memory. Also unusual is Mayberry's perspective. Most reminiscences deal
                    with the experiences of members of the armed forces, a natural focus but one which overlooks the
                    significant impact wars have on civilian populations. Mayberry's perspective is even more
                    unusual because she was not just a civilian, but the wife of a serviceman. As she moved with her
                    husband from one military base to another, she was exposed to both the civilian and the military
                    worlds. Because of this she experienced such typical civilian situations as rationing, shortages,
                    and transportation problems, as well as experiences peculiar to the families of servicemen,
                    particularly the difficulties military families faced in attempting to build a relatively normal
                    life and the frequent hostility such transient families faced from local residents when they moved
                    into new towns. For those who lived through World War II, Mayberry's account should
                    rekindle memories of life on the home front; for others, it provides an interesting view by a
                    perceptive observer of what life was like during this critical period.1
            
            
               
                  ∗
                  
                            Virginia
                         Mayberry is a resident of 
                            Middlebury
                        , Indiana.
               
                  1 For discussions of the home front during World War II, see: Richard E.
                        Lingeman, Don't You Know There's a War On? (
                            New York
                        , 1970); John Morton Blum, V Was for Victory: Politics and American
                            Culture during World War II (
                            New York
                        , 1976); and Richard Polenberg, War and Society: The 
                                United States
                            , 1941–1945 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1972). The Indiana scene is discussed in James H. Madison, Indiana
                            through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People,
                        1920–1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 370–407.
            
            
            
                    Memoir
                
            It takes all kinds of people to fight a war, even a popular war like World War II. There are soldiers
                    and sailors. There are spies and nurses and aviators. And then there are those who only stand and
                    wait. Service wives are like that; I was a draftee's wife.2
            
            The rumblings of conflict reached me first at college on a September evening in 1938 with news of the
                    Munich pact.3 It was the second day of sorority rush. I, my mind weighted with
                    the annual ceremony of choosing members for our sorority, nevertheless sensed drama taking place in
                    Europe. My fraternal sisters sat on the floor of the drawing room, young faces tense, realizing not
                    so much the seriousness of the international situation as the fact that our world, our inviolate
                    collegiate sphere, was in danger of disruption. My mother had carefully explained to me when I was
                    small that there would never be another war because American men had given their lives in 1918 to
                    make the world safe for democracy.
            Now our housemother attempted to prepare us. She was as well equipped as any of her generation to
                    foretell what was coming. In the four years of my undergraduate experience, even while upperclassmen
                    left to enlist with the Canadians or tried their wings via CAA,4 none of our
                    learned professors held out to us a more than passing mention of the possibility of war in our time.
                    Certain of them were at work right at Indiana University on the big bomb.5 It may have been
                    purposeful that the cyclotron there was presented to us more as a curiosity than as an instrument of
                    warfare, but I think not.
            The European situation abated as far as Yankee kids knew. To businessmen a favorite question college
                    newspaper reporters 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Virginia
                             Mayberry was born in 
                        Cleveland,
                                    Ohio
                     , on June 4, 1919, and
                            reared in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , where she attended Brookside Elementary and Shortridge High School. She
                            graduated from the School of Journalism, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , in June, 1941. This account is written in the first person; in the interest of
                            preserving this first person perspective, conversations are quoted verbatim, although it is
                            recognized that such quotations may at times contain slight inaccuracies.
                  
                     3 The Munich Pact, drawn up after an international conference in that
                            city on September 29–30, 1938, ceded 
                                Czechoslovakia
                            's Sudetenland region to 
                                Germany
                            . The conference and cessions resulted when 
                                Germany
                             complained about the treatment of the 
                                German
                             minority in 
                                Czechoslovakia
                             and threatened to attack the latter nation if the Czech area with the greatest
                            concentration of Germans was not ceded. It was the Munich Conference which produced what
                            British prime minister Neville Chamberlain proclaimed as "peace in our
                            time."
                  
                     4 The Civilian Air Army, a federal program to train pilots.
                  
                     5 For a discussion of war-related activities at Indiana University,
                            see Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume III,
                            Years of Fulfillment (4 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1970–1977), 117–38. The first cyclotron at the
                            university began operations in the spring of 1941; some data from early measurements made at
                            the facility were used by researchers working on the nation's atom bomb
                        project.
               
                     asked, calculating to display precocity, was, "Do you
                    think the European situation will have any effect on American business?" They replied yes,
                    of course, nodding wisely, but never, never elucidated.
            If we shook our heads over the Russo-Finnish entanglement,6 a warning which no
                    one seems to remember, it was assessed as just a far-off growl of thunder, rated far below the Great
                    Depression as a matter for our concern. The Depression was something we understood. Allison Division
                    of General Motors might be tooling up for airplane engines in Speedway City, just outside 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but veterans in ragged coats still sold apples on 
                        Washington
                     Street.
            
               
                        Germany
                     if as at war. The Selective Training and Service Act was passed in September and draft
                    registration began in October, 1940. At school male students paraded in the Commons wearing
                    grotesque costumes, large, flat-footed shoes and huge spectacles, carrying placards to the effect
                    that there was a draft in here and would someone please close the door. Kitchen bands tootled
                    "You're in the Army Now" and "Mademoiselle from
                    Armentières." The girls laughed, drank cokes, blew soda straw wrappers at the
                    ceiling, and quipped at the snake dancers that we were going to get all the jobs now.
            As June approached, seniors usually hunted jobs frantically, but business aspirations this year were
                    limited to the feminine third of the class.
            "Got a job yet?" I asked the telegraph editor at the Indiana Daily
                        Student, the college paper.
            "Hell no. What's the use? I'm going to have a good time ‘til my
                    number comes up."
            "I'll Be Back in a Year Little Darling" they sang. That was how long a
                    draftee was supposed to serve.
            Commencement Day was sibyllic. It dawned a fair fifth of June. The speakers' platform was
                    set up in Dunn Meadow, and visitors began to pour into the campus about noon. With them came black
                    clouds. Gowned and mortarboarded, we sweated through a dull speech by a more than usually anonymous
                    educator, which finally had to be cut short. Diplomas were handed down the rows in bundles. As soon
                    as the coveted sheepskins were in hand, we new bachelors fled. Visitors already were scampering
                    toward parked cars.
            
               
                  6 The Winter War between 
                            Finland
                         and the 
                            Soviet Union
                         broke out in November, 1939, when 
                            Finland
                         refused to meet Soviet territorial demands. Fighting continued until the following
                        March, when 
                            Finland
                         was forced to seek peace. By the Treaty of Moscow the smaller nation made a number
                        of territorial concessions.
            
            
            As I grasped my diploma in one hand the precious mortarboard (rented, and to be returned without fail
                    to the comptroller's agent before five o'clock) in the other, I saw the lone
                    university Reserve Officers' Training Corps representative mount the speakers'
                    platform. In three minutes a hundred and fifty second lieutenants were sworn into the army reserve.
                    The storm broke with a dramatic crash of thunder, and all those rented mortarboards wilted under a
                    downpour.
            My first job was just what journalism grads were taught to expect. The pay was nebulous. L.S. Ayres,
                    a department store in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , had acquired a new warehouse some distance from the main store. Also, the company was
                    feeling the draft as one employee after another received "Greetings." I started a
                    house organ to be mailed to warehouse workers, store personnel, and newly drafted stock boys to weld
                    them into one big, happy family.
            I spent two weeks getting acquainted, riding furniture trucks, visiting alteration and
                    furriers' departments, poking my head into the cooling system, shaking hands with the
                    adjustment manager, and I met Joe.
            "I want you to meet Joe," said the personnel director.
            "Oh, you'll like him," whispered the switchboard operator.
                    "He's a Beta from 
                        Wabash
                    ."
            "Hmm," I thought. School was three weeks behind me and I was fraternity-homesick in
                    my new, non-collegiate surroundings.
            "He's been drafted and came to say goodbye," went on the personnel
                    director.
            "Oh damn," under my breath. But it would be a story for my paper.
            He stood in the corner by the water cooler looking very uncomfortable in uniform.
            "This is Joe. Talk to him. Get a story. Take his picture." And the personnel
                    director vanished.
            I gasped at the abrupt introduction, simpered, "How do you do? I'm the new house
                    organ editor. Gee, you've got a bad sunburn, haven't you?" and felt
                    stupid.
            "Yeah," he laughed and got redder.
            Papers and magazines were full of helpful hints on "How To Treat the New Draftee."
                    He was a special person to be handled with Dresden-china care lest his delicate ego be shattered.
                    The term "draftee" gradually was superseded by the more tactful "service
                    man" to include volunteers.
            I was cleaning dresser drawers the morning of Sunday, December 7, 1941, when a radio announcer
                    interrupted a philharmonic concert to report the Pearl Harbor attack. I had been knitting  Red Cross sweaters for several months. My first thought was
                    that now I was sure they'd be used.
            Because he was a college graduate and therefore presumably capable of leadership, Joe wasn't
                    transferred away but stayed in the reception center at Fort Benjamin Harrison at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He never even took basic training. In November he had finally gotten around to asking
                    me for a date and right after Pearl Harbor he made corporal. His pay increased from twenty-one
                    dollars a month to what seemed like a magnificent figure, and he administered tests for placement to
                    new inductees. Not that the results counted for much—"the army way" of
                    assigning men to areas completely foreign to civilian experience was legend.
            I got right into war projects. I rolled bandages for the Red Cross on my lunch hour and completed a
                    first aid course. The government asked for volunteers to catalogue spellings of similar names for
                    use by the services' mail delivery. I searched 
                  New York, Detroit
               , and Gary city
                    directories and names like Moore, More, Mohr, and Mower rattled in long rows from my typewriter.
            Then there was the United Service Organizations (USO). First I served as hostess to visitors at Fort
                    Harrison. After Pearl Harbor the draft was stepped up, and hordes of volunteers swamped reception
                    centers during December and January in a surge of national indignation. The mere location at a given
                    time of any one inductee was a several-man job, but visitors still were allowed on the post. Fifth
                    Corps Area included 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and West 
                        Virginia
                    , and thence came bewildered families who still haunt me. Through bitter cold they drove
                    with rationed gasoline in junk cars, whose motivation was a mystery, to arrive at an army post in
                    turmoil. They didn't understand the war, they didn't comprehend the draft, they
                    couldn't believe a son or brother had been snatched from the farm, where he was needed to
                    milk cows and slop hogs, to fight Germans who supposedly had been taught their lesson thirty years
                    ago. As for Japanese, most of them had never seen one.
            It was my duty somehow to extract their soldier's full name from the family, fill out a
                    form, and send a runner to search for the inductee. Sometimes I found him; but
                    "I'm sorry. Private Beanblossom has been sent to another camp. I'm sure
                    he'll write you his new address soon," was more frequent. After a month or so some
                    higher-up got the idea that a twenty-two-year-old unmarried woman had not sufficient maturity for
                    such close contact with so much raw humanity, and I was transferred to the canteen downtown.
            
            The USO had humble beginnings. Ours was located in an abandoned interurban freight barn behind the
                    bus terminal. It was not a nice neighborhood. A jovial old codger who went by the name of Snowball
                    took care of the upper part of the building and supervised the showers, pool tables, and library on
                    evenings when the complete contingent of girls was not present for dancing. Pairs of hostesses
                    "received" downstairs and dispensed theater tickets, phonograph records, cards,
                    cigarettes, information, or just conversation. I arranged for men to accept Sunday dinner
                    invitations with volunteer families, find rooms at the YMCA, and get free tickets to a concert or
                    roller rink. There were even weddings in that old brick shanty.
            On Wednesday, Saturday, and Sunday nights whole "regiments" of service
                    men's cadettes came to dance. We wore huge red, white, and blue pins, enamelled like
                    jewelry with the letters SMC.
            At the end of 1941 the novelty of house organ editing wore thin. I, like the whole country, suffered
                    from war nerves. I needed to be needed. I had given blood for plasma and run myself ragged with
                    local defense projects, and I felt totally useless. I applied for a civil service exam, and one
                    rainy morning sat down with a hundred or so other youngsters to place my abilities on exhibition.
                    Three girls were taking home economics tests, another and I academic ones. The rest were doing short
                    mathematical problems and continually received oral instructions from the proctors. They clattered
                    their protractors and asked five hundred questions during the two-hour work period. It was extremely
                    distracting. I remember that I could not settle on a good definition for the word
                    "enigma" but passed anyway.
            Soon plans for the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps (WAAC) were aired.7
                    Appointments for the first Officer Candidate School were to be made outright. I nearly burst an
                    artery getting to the post office to register. This was something I really wanted. The first, or
                    written, exam was similar to the civil service one I just had completed. An interview with the local
                    selection board followed, then a physical at Fort Harrison. Then, oh joy, a call to Fort Hayes at
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , for the final screening. I was screened. My short stature and
                    lack of business experience did me in. I still appeared immature; furthermore, I was considering
                    marriage.
            
               
                  7 The Women's Auxiliary Army Corps (WAAC) was created by Congress
                        in May, 1942, and placed women in noncombat roles. Women's corps also were created for
                        other branches of the armed forces during the war.
            
            
            Becoming a war bride in the popular sense was the farthest thing from my mind, but as winter wore
                    into spring, I saw more and more of Joe. He picked me up after first aid class. We snatched time for
                    a coke during office hours. We debated the pros and cons of wartime marriage. My parents were
                    horrified and would not even discuss a wedding, but by August we hesitated no longer and began
                    apartment hunting and a lot of paper and pencil budgeting. It was amazing how far a buck
                    sergeant's pay and a house organ editor's eighteen dollars a week could be
                    stretched theoretically.
            Just when our plans seemed settled, my now-forgotten civil service appointment for the War Department
                    in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , came through. I was to arrive not later than August 10. I wonder now if I would have
                    made a successful government girl. For a time I argued that the fabulous pay would enable us to put
                    aside a nice nest egg, but Joe took a dim view of long-distance marriage, particularly when he was
                    sure to go overseas soon.
            We obtained blood tests required by Indiana and on Thursday presented ourselves, trembling, at the
                    license bureau.
            Friday we called on Joe's cousin, Mary, at whose home our wedding was to take place since my
                    parents still would not cooperate. Late in the evening someone remembered that a minister might be a
                    useful person to be present, so an in-law of hers was summoned. Joe had been to the
                    jeweler's that day.
            The morning of Saturday, August 8, 1942, I took a new gingham suit I had bought for work to the
                    alteration department at Ayres and told them my story. Something of a time record was set in making
                    it a perfect fit. I also purchased a white satin nightgown. At five o'clock the minister
                    sang "I Love You Truly," accompanied at the piano by Mary. Then we were married.
                    Five adults and four babies were witnesses. We had a borrowed car and a lake cottage for the
                    wonderful duration of Joe's three-day pass, and we had forty-five dollars cash.
            Eight dollars a week, we thought, was the maximum rent our budget would bear, and after two
                    discouraging weeks during which we lived at a hotel and counted nickels at restaurants we heard of a
                    vacancy. There were others ahead of us, but I was determined to set up housekeeping in a certain
                    yellow brick apartment house close to work. We pleaded with the custodian, a kindly old black man,
                    who, bless Heaven, seemed to take a liking to us. His name was Bill. I phoned every day, and every
                    evening we paid him a visit. At last he gave in.
            "I'll show it to you," he said conspiratorially.
            My hopes tobogganed as he opened the door and stepped back to exhibit a small living room, so empty
                    it looked enormous. There 
                    
                  JOSEPH ALBERT MAYBERRY, AUGUST, 1942
                  Courtesy 
                                Virginia
                             Mayberry.
               
                    
                  THE AUTHOR BEFORE HER MARRIAGE IN AUGUST, 1942
                  Courtesy 
                                Virginia
                             Mayberry.
               
                     was an equally vacant dinette and a huge bare closet into which
                    swung a Murphy bed, devoid of fittings. Only the minute kitchenette was furnished.
            "Uh, well—we thought this was furnished," I stammered.
            "No ma'am," declared the black man. "It'll be
                    unfurnished ‘cept just what you see. This's thirty-five dollars."
            "Thirty-five?" I dared not look at Joe. "Including utilities?"
            "Yep."
            "Well—," a pause. "Uh—what about a
                    mattress?"
            "No mattress. Just the bed, like you see."
            "Oh," another pause. "And the dinette?"
            "Well, some of these places used to be furnished. They's a dinette set down cellar
                    maybe I could let you have ‘til you got one."
            "Oh yes, of course. Just until we can get one. Well—."
            "Now lady, don't you take this place if you don't feel like you want it.
                    You'll make a deposit, and I can keep it, but then if you don't take the apartment
                    you'll be out that money. You go away and think about it. I ain't in no hurry to
                    rent this place. You let me know."
            Obviously Bill was well acquainted with the facts of newlyweds' poverty, but I had made up
                    my mind.
            We moved into the apartment at 306 North 
                        Pennsylvania
                     with three pairs of window curtains and a studio couch. We had a set of dishes for two
                    and several assorted collections of glasses given us as wedding gifts. That night we took home a
                    pint of ice cream and some wooden forks, which served as our entire array of cutlery until I bought
                    two paring knives next payday.
            In September Joe made staff sergeant, and the following month the jingle of war money lured me into a
                    defense plant. I was paid an unbelievable thirty-five dollars a week! The hours were longer, the
                    work, in an X-ray photography laboratory, exhausting, and the daily drive to Speedway by car pool a
                    long one. On the other hand we now had our tiny apartment adequately furnished, much to custodian
                    Bill's satisfaction, we entertained occasionally, and we could afford Christmas gifts for
                    our families. Mine had adjusted to the fact of our marriage once it was a fait
                        accompli.
            
            After the holidays I became aware that I was not well. Things in the lab annoyed me, mainly the
                    flagrant waste of materials. I saw film thrown away and silver from X-rays washing down the drain
                    while the war demand for both was forcing professional photographers to close shop. Resorting to the
                    plant suggestion box to try to clear my own conscience, I was told politely but firmly to mind my
                    own business. Allison's ran on a cost-plus basis.
            
            I worried about ethics, had a cold, felt rotten, and finally went to our old family doctor who
                    grinned and asked how I'd feel about having a baby. I said I felt as though I'd
                    been hit by a falling elevator.
            In February of 1943 married men were called up and others, formerly deferred for slight physical
                    ailments, were being inducted for limited service. It became apparent that Joe's days at
                    the reception center were numbered. Men working with him left for infantry and overseas assignment.
                    Personnel non-commissioned officers routinely advanced to Adjutant General's Officer
                    Candidate School. It was scheduled to close in June, so Joe slid in just under the wire and was
                    assigned to Fort 
                  Washington, Maryland
               , for the last OCS class conducted there.
            In February I came down with a strep throat and quit work, but I was secure in the knowledge that my
                    defense plant insurance would just about pay for baby. By the time Joe left, sulfanilamide, a
                    miraculous new drug, had controlled my violent cough and the miserable first three months of
                    pregnancy were nearly over. We put our furniture into storage, and I went to wait with my parents.
            Spring came early that year. By the first of June 
                        Washington
                     was a weltering cauldron of humanity on concrete, but D.C. was good to service men.
                    When Joe's parents and I arrived for OCS graduation, we were enfolded by the comfort of the
                    well-ordered Wardman Park Hotel. I had seen a few other graduates, so I was spared the shock many
                    wives experienced at their husbands' post-OCS appearance. A weight loss and the intensity
                    of concentration aged a man years in those three months. A candidate ordered his new
                    officer's pinks and greens as soon as it became apparent that his grades were adequate for
                    graduation; consequently, six months later, as his body got back to normal, his wife had
                    painstakingly to move buttons and let out seams as far as possibly consistent with regulations.
                    Perhaps tight trousers were responsible for the traditional stuffy personalities of those second
                    lieutenants, termed "90-day wonders" by regular army.
            With the baby only three months away I was anxious about Joe's first assignment as an
                    officer. Most new shavetails joined a pool and within six months went on foreign duty. Joe drew a
                    classification assignment at Camp Crowder, a signal corps outfit near Joplin, 
                        Missouri
                    . He left at once and within the week accomplished the impossible, a house, a whole
                    house, a whole house furnished, ready and waiting! Fondly I set out dishes, kitchen utensils,
                    linens, our precious photograph album. It took two barrels as big as me to pack them. They were
                    shipped.
            
            I left for 
                        St. Louis
                     with a small bag and my knitting. I was making a dainty little blue and white bonnet.
                    The coach I climbed on must have belonged to the DeWitt Clinton. The seats felt
                    like petrified wood; it was dinerless and unairconditioned; people hung, gasping, from the windows,
                    through which soot and cinders poured. A young schoolteacher, returning from a wedding, shared my
                    seat. From time to time she slanted a magazine out the window to engineer a bit of breeze in my
                    direction. As the train creaked and jerked its agonized way across the sun-scorched fields of
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , perspiration ran down my neck and into my new maternity girdle. After one particularly
                    vicious wrench a sailor in the seat ahead turned squarely around. "Doesn't that
                    just kill you? It did my wife," he exclaimed.
            That monstrous caterpillar was four hours late, and I missed my connection. As we pulled into 
                        St. Louis
                     I saw my train heading west on another track. It was 1:00 a.m. Others also had missed
                    out, and from the resulting scramble at the information desk I concluded there was no transportation
                    to 
                        Kansas City
                    , my next stop, until morning. The Travelers' Aid desk was empty, the Service
                    Men's Canteen closed. My now bosom friend, the school-teacher, began to telephone hotels.
                    After thirty minutes of rigorous toil with the Yellow Pages she came out of the sweaty phone booth
                    with a look of doubtful triumph. "I got a room," she said, "at some kind
                    of a hotel about a block from here. It's a dollar."
            Giggling hysterically at the hotel we jammed a chair under the door knob, took sponge baths in the
                    room wash basin and had a good night's rest.
            Next day, failing even to approach two jammed trains for 
                        Kansas City
                    , I hopped a trolley and hunted the railroad office, where some ingenious ticket agent
                    discovered a pullman direct to Joplin, complete with diner and lower berth for me.
            Seven out of eight houses in Joplin were white frame with chicken coops behind, and number 1414 on a
                    street I can't remember was no exception. It caught what breeze there was. During our seven
                    weeks there the thermometer was stuck in the upper nineties and finally hit 110.
            We shared with a couple from 
                  Columbus, Georgia
               . He was an ex-schoolteacher, as lazy a fat man as
                    ever came out of the Deep South, she a tall, good-looking woman in her early thirties with a soul
                    devoid of humor. They did not choose to eat with us, so each evening our potatoes boiled in two pots
                    side by side on the stove. They drank no coffee, tea, or milk, but at bedtime carried a gallon
                    thermos of icewater to their room. I have no reason to believe that the contents were not entirely
                    consumed during the night.
            
            In Joplin I had no difficulty locating the office of the obstetrician. It was the one with the crowd
                    around it. If the poor man had progeny of his own, they thought their daddy had gone to war.
                    Certainly they could not have seen him for months. Only four weeks after I had made his acquaintance
                    he fell victim to infantile paralysis. A general practitioner took up his practice, but, by the time
                    I could get an appointment, Joe was transferred.
            Orders this time indicated attachment to the Army Air Force. He was to report to Lunken Field, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , headquarters of the Ferrying Division.8
            
            So we bought Lizzybelle. She was a 1936 
                        Plymouth
                     with an acknowledged eighty thousand miles, and she looked every mile of it.
                    "I'll sell her before the baby comes," I announced confidently. I
                    didn't want to go anywhere by train again for a long time.
            We piled everything we owned into Lizzybelle's dilapidated rear seat. The two of us and the
                    knitting—I still was working on the blue and white bonnet—went in front. We
                    drove fifty miles before the brakes gave out, but I remember 
                  Springfield, Missouri
               ,
                    with pleasure for the delicious chicken dinner we had in a converted mansion while awaiting repairs.
                    Hot biscuits, rationed butter and iced tea appeared in a steady flow, borne by a small black genii,
                    until we could eat no more. We spent the night in a tourist camp.
            Next day we discovered Liz was an oil-eater and every fifty miles thereafter stopped to sustain her
                    petroleum addiction.
            We skirted 
                        St. Louis
                     because I was sure the place would bring bad luck. After lunch Lizzybelle had a flat.
                    Joe was anxious to make time, but I insisted on stopping to have it repaired immediately. Gut
                    feeling told me not to trust Liz's one spare. I left myself open for a good razzing. Not
                    ten miles farther, as we crossed the long 
                        Mississippi
                     toll bridge, the same tire issued the familiar "phsss." Liz limped to
                    the end of the span where Joe changed to the spare.
            We reached Vandalia, 
                        Illinois
                    , without further misadventure and spent the night at a hotel while Liz's
                    rubber was overhauled. Across the street was the courthouse, from the window of which Abraham
                    Lincoln is said to have jumped to avoid testifying at a trial. Next morning we fairly leaped along.
                    At 
                        Terre Haute
                     we pulled into a filling station.
            
               
                  8 The Army Air Corps was created in 1926. It became the Army Air Force in
                        June, 1941, and became co-equal with other forces of the army in February, 1942. The Ferrying
                        Division of the Air Transport Command had the primary mission to deliver aircraft to allies and
                        to 
                            United States
                         forces. Berry Field delivered to 
                            India
                        ; Gore Field delivered to Alaska for pickup by the 
                            Soviet Union
                        .
            
            
            "What's the matter?" I asked.
            "Lizzybelle has a flat," announced Joe.
            We reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     about noon. Our pocketbook was flat, too.
            Joe phoned from 
                        Cincinnati
                     when he got there—by train.
            "I flipped a coin with another fellow," he explained. "He's going
                    to Great Falls, 
                        Montana
                    . We're going to Berry Field at 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               ."
            I, who detest cold weather, rejoiced.
            It was the middle of August now, and, since the baby was soon due, it seemed inadvisable for me to go
                    to a strange town where chances of finding doctor, home, and hospital quickly were slim. I stayed
                    with my parents and busied myself trying to sell Lizzybelle. As if in protest she had one final
                    fling. I asked my father to run her around the block one evening, and during the spin she burned out
                    a wire connecting battery and spark. After that repair she sulked in the drive for two weeks until a
                    used car dealer offered me two-thirds of what we had paid for her. As much in demand as cars were
                    during those years of nonmanufacture, prices depressed as one moved east. I parted with her
                    reluctantly because of the money loss the day before our son was born.
            Obstetrics being what they were then, I remember little of that day except fantastic dreams produced
                    by total anesthesia. About 8:00 p.m. a nurse brought the baby to me. He was blond and blue-eyed, a
                    miniature Joe. We already had decided to name him Richard but he soon became Blinky.
            Joe sublet a furnished house in East 
                        Nashville
                    . I applied to the ration board for extra gasoline for Dad's car. Late in
                    October I packed his trailer with Blinky's bassinette and buggy. The trip south was
                    uneventful until we reached Hodgenville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , where we missed a turn. The road became gravel and then a trail. At this point we came
                    face to face with a black community funeral procession. There couldn't have been that many
                    automobiles at the last rites of a movie star. Gasoline rations were liberal for funerals, and
                    evidently all the deceased's friends and relations had obtained cars for the services. Our
                    trailer, heavily loaded, couldn't be backed, so Dad recruited a brawny man from the crowd
                    of mourners. As though it were a toy he unhitched the trailer, turned it, and held the tongue
                    effortlessly until Dad maneuvered the car around in the opposite direction. Then we retraced the
                    miles back into Hodgenville heading the longest funeral procession I ever have seen.
            We sublet 1116 McChesney Street in East 
                        Nashville
                     from Birmingham people. The furniture was tolerable, the house not  so good. Joe, with the help of neighbors, had the place clean, but I
                    was unprepared for rats. The foundation of the house was a hole in the ground, a few tree trunks for
                    piling with some boards thrown up around them. The furnace sat squarely at the foot of the stairs
                    and coal was dumped haphazardly in the window. Some previous tenant had used an unexcavated portion
                    under the flooring as a dump.
            The third day of our sojourn was a drenching one. As I went to the basement for a try at furnace
                    stoking, I heard a scramble. A rat as big as a cat scampered through a hole in the siding.
                    Shuddering, I paused at the window and outside saw another one carrying an ear of corn. I had
                    visions of bubonic plague. Hastily I retreated to the kitchen and began to search frantically. Ah,
                    just as I thought. "Electric Rat Paste," one box was labelled, and it was still
                    fresh. So this was no new thing! I was afraid to leave the baby alone after that and flew out of bed
                    when he made the slightest sound at night. I had the gruesome satisfaction of luring at least five
                    rodents to their deaths with the "electric" concoction.
            Never was there a more hospitable soul than our closest neighbor on McChesney Street. She insisted on
                    caring for Blinky occasionally. One day I returned from the grocery to find her rocking him and
                    crooning happily, "My little damnyankee. Oh my sweet little damnyankee."
            When we had been in the house for two weeks, the owner and the Birmingham lessee began to bicker. We
                    feared being caught in the crossfire. Besides, the rats really frightened me. Joe heard of a fellow
                    officer who was transferring, so we snatched his place near the fairgrounds.
            The Warfleigh subdivison house, a six-room brick, was much above the average rental. Its owner had
                    been drafted. It sat atop a high hill and had a large garden in which a few flowers still bloomed.
                    The maple furniture was similar to our own, stored so long ago. One bedroom was decorated as a
                    nursery.
            Moving day was a trauma. Army truckers carted groceries, baby furniture, and luggage. Then the wife
                    of Joe's immediate superior, a wealthy young woman named Dodie, came to drive Blinky and me
                    to our new home. This day Dodie was dressed in striking navy silk with white ruffles at wrist and
                    throat. When we reached 1706 Stewart Place I expected my fashionable friend to say farewell at once.
                    Instead she plunged into the house with enthusiasm, shouting, "Give me some linens.
                    I'll make the bed. Where do you want these groceries moved? Heavens, here's the
                    grandaddy of all dirts! Wait! I'll borrow a vacuum."
            By the time I had my wraps off, she had dashed next door and was back with a vacuum, a pail, and an
                    enormous scrub brush.  I never discovered what plans she had for
                    the latter two items. The owner appeared to build a fire and show me how to regulate the thermostat.
                    The poor soul was hardly in the door before Dodie had him by the arm.
            "You'll help me with this mattress, won't you? I've got to clean
                    under the springs."
            Five minutes later she stood in the middle of the denuded bedstead, a broom in one hand, a dust rag
                    in the other, a swirl of lint surrounding her.
            "Would you think it just terrible if I skipped out now?" she asked apologetically.
                    "I just happened to think of an appointment and I am getting
                    dirty."
            I waved goodbye to my impetuous benefactress and settled in. I saw no rats but did once invite a
                    friendly tomcat in to dispose of a mouse in the attic.
            Forsythia was blooming the day Joe called to say we were on our way to Great Falls, 
                        Montana
                    , to be attached to the Air Force at Gore Field. It seemed the coin he'd
                    flipped last August had turned over again. I hated leaving 
                        Nashville
                     in springtime.
            We were routed through 
                        Cincinnati
                     to "Sunken Lunken" for army reasons, stopped one night in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , then went on to 
                        Chicago
                    . Travelling with a baby is no picnic, but we did very well until the fourth day. At
                    seven, while Blinky was having a morning bottle, we pulled into a bare little mountain station and
                    there were dumped from our pullman into an unlighted, unheated coach train headed north. After three
                    hours' wait in below zero temperature, the train was made up and rolled. It took seven
                    hours to complete two hundred miles to Great Falls, during which the baby whimpered incessantly. At
                    one fork in the tracks we were informed there would be a ten-minute stop for lunch. There was a
                    restaurant two blocks away. I tried to go, but a rising blizzard was too much for me carrying the
                    wailing child, so Joe went alone and brought back sandwiches. One man bought bread and made his own.
            "Do you know," he exclaimed, "bread costs fifteen cents here?" It
                    still was eight cents in Indiana.9
            
            At the hotel we tucked Blinky, who obviously had pneumonia, into a makeshift bed of two chairs and
                    several blankets. A maid came to check the room. I had used one hotel blanket under the 
                  
                     9 Money really was of minor concern. Ration points were important.
                            Gasoline, heating oil, tires, shoes, sugar, meat, fats, coffee, and canned goods were
                            closely controlled. Shortages in other commodities and foodstuffs developed, but we learned
                            to substitute or do without.
               
                     baby which she jerked off the chair, announcing peevishly that
                    she couldn't permit such use of hotel property.
            Blinky was very sick, but after two weeks' warmth and nursing he once more laughed and
                    regained his usual prodigious appetite. We began to house-hunt.
            When, to a town of some 35,000, the personnel and dependents of two air bases are added, there must,
                    of necessity, be a housing shortage. Great Falls was no exception. Some ranch families also wintered
                    in town, and boarding houses were maintained for expectant mothers from ranches so they might be
                    near the hospital for delivery. After almost a month of searching I arrived at the conclusion via
                    slammed telephones and shaken heads that army couples generally were unwelcome and army couples with
                    children were absolutely unclean. Finally a fellow officer rented a house and, for sake of economy,
                    invited us to move in temporarily.
            That month Joe made first lieutenant and went to 
                        Sacramento
                     on temporary duty. By the time he returned I had found a two-room basement apartment on
                    the south edge of Great Falls in view of the mountains. It consisted of a bedroom and a combination
                    living-cooking room. In the family laundry section of the basement were a shower and stool. Laundry
                    tubs served as a sink. In the Victory Garden10 I picked up an old beer can
                    opener to use on Blinky's condensed milk cans. It embarrassed me a bit but it worked.
                    Before I had always used a hammer and a sterilized nail.
            A month later another officer was transferred, and we sublet his house. A one-bedroom affair with a
                    microscopic yard, 612 Fifth Street South nevertheless was a house, and there were neighbors our own
                    age, Kia and "Spike" Schrader.
            On the morning of June 6 Joe left for temporary duty in 
                        Denver
                     and Cheyenne. I was in the midst of weekly ironing when news of D-day came. I think it
                    affected me emotionally more than any other high point of the war. The kitchen woodwork and floor
                    were scrubbed on adrenaline fed by the radio all day, and I mended socks until three in the morning
                    to keep awake and listening to history a-making.
            In August we had notice that the owners of our house were returning to town, so I began the hunt
                    again. The most irritating situation in any military town was that, while government-subsidized
                    apartments were open to families of "essential workers," 
                  
                     10 During the war the government encouraged Americans to grow gardens,
                            termed "Victory Gardens," to aid the war effort. Such gardens became very
                            common and supplied a substantial proportion of the nation's fresh
                        vegetables.
               
                     this meant only factory people. Service personnel did not
                    qualify as essential. Some argued that service wives ought to stay home instead of traipsing around
                    hither and yon, dragging their brats into other peoples' towns. Most of us had no permanent
                    homes anywhere and could only make them where our men were stationed. I feel a wife belongs by her
                    husband's side, and a child should have his father's steadying influence so long
                    as possible. I saw some men seek the company of cheap women simply because their wives would not
                    endure the inconveniences of army following.
            We found 517 Fifth Street South, another basement, this time in a dark brick building. It consisted
                    of a long living room with closet and roll-away bed, a kitchen, a tiny bedroom for the baby, and, by
                    some quirk of the architect's fancy, two baths. The place was a dungeon.
            In September, when Blinky was a year old, Joe was assigned to temporary duty back at "Sunken
                    Lunken" in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He had leave coming and agreed to take it for a visit in Indiana if I could obtain my
                    own transportation. I called the two railroads. Twenty days at least. I called the one airline.
                    Well….
            The night before Joe was to leave there was a vacancy. As I was about to phone for a cab, it was
                    cancelled. Next night they had one. Blinky and I caught up with Joe in 
                        Chicago
                     and managed to ride the same commercial plane south, he going to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Blinky and I getting off at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he joined us later.
            The story of our return trip should be recorded in the annals of transportation under the heading,
                    "If you've time to spare, go by air."
            During the war travel was on a priority basis. On public transportation military personnel on duty
                    and government personnel could "bump" civilians no matter how legitimate the
                    citizens' travel needs were. Once "bumped" a nonpriority passenger then
                    was bypassed even by other nonpriority travellers coming from greater distances. It was one huge
                    parchesi game. One or more infants in tow, complete with blankets, toys, diaper bag, bottles, and
                    many cans of condensed milk, simply added to the challenge which young mothers accepted as a way of
                    life.
            On a Thursday evening we all went to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     airport together. We were reserved on American Airlines to 
                        Chicago
                     and were to spend the night with my college roommate, who lived there. From 
                        Chicago
                     Joe would take military transport back to Great Falls while I went via Northwest. As we
                    waited, fog settled. Our plane appeared, circled twice, disappeared north. We returned to my
                    parents. Two days later, Joe, at the very margin of  his leave,
                    took military transport west. I couldn't clear a reservation for a week.
            Then, with Blinky swaddled in double diapers and two pairs of waterproofs, I tried again. This time
                    American had a gas leak and was forced to bump a passenger, me, but an hour later I caught an
                    Eastern on standby, arriving at 
                        Chicago
                     about eight o'clock in a downpour. Northwest was due out at four in the
                    morning.
            In the chaos that was the tiny wartime 
                        Chicago
                     terminal I concluded that I would do well to visit my old roommate after all, and give
                    the sleepy child a few hours' nap. That decision was my undoing.
            I propped Blinky up between an embarrassed major and an amused lieutenant and in an authoritative
                    manner instructed them that he was in their care while I tried to telephone my friend. She was not
                    in; nevertheless, after an hour's wait a well-tipped porter located a cab seat, and, packed
                    in it with four officers, we made our rattling way across the dreary city. I have detested 
                        Chicago
                     since that night.
            At the apartment I learned my friend had left for 
                        New York
                    , but I persuaded the desk man to give me her key. I put Blinky to bed while I dozed on
                    the couch. At two I tried to call a cab. Poor little fool from the cornfields. I hadn't
                    anticipated the independence of Windy City taxi men. None wanted to make the long run to the airport
                    with only one passenger. At 2:30 I enlisted the aid of the hotel clerk, at 3:00 that of the airline
                    office. At 4:00 I put the baby back to bed. Later in the morning considerable phoning elicited the
                    information that in possibly a week I might get another air reservation. A train west would be two
                    weeks.
            Discouraged, I rummaged in my friend's refrigerator and found two oranges and a bottle of
                    ginger ale. Blinky had the oranges for breakfast. At the desk I was told about a restaurant in the
                    next building and hastened thence in hopes of coffee, only to find it closed on Wednesdays. This was
                    Wednesday. I went back to the apartment and drank the ginger ale.
            Tucking Blinky under one arm and his diaper bag under the other, I hailed one of the now-plentiful
                    cruising taxis to the airport to give it one more try.
            "We have a vacancy as far as 
                        Minneapolis
                     right now," I was told. "Would you care to take that?"
            "Yes," I shouted. It was in the right direction.
            We almost set up housekeeping in the 
                        Minneapolis
                     terminal. When we arrived I was informed there would be two planes that night on which
                    there might possibly be room for us. By 6:00 at  least fourteen
                    persons awaited the same two planes. When these landed, priority passengers appeared to displace
                    seven more.
            Blinky's canned milk supply was exhausted, his diapers nearly so. The cafeteria had no milk,
                    but an obliging taxi driver volunteered to buy several cans from an open-all-night grocery.
                    "I got kids myself," he grinned. I wondered glumly if cab drivers in 
                        Chicago
                     ever became fathers.
            Harassed airport clerks arranged hotel rooms for the entire crowd of bumped passengers. Among them
                    was a navy wife trying to reach her husband who had an unexpected three-day shore leave in Spokane.
                    Her little boy was only a few months older than Blinky. We bathed the babies and spent a
                    comfortable, if anxious, night in a shared room.
            The following morning we were back at the terminal, joined by another army wife and her
                    five-month-old. Also, a middle-aged hypochondriac was returning from having an operation in 
                        Boston
                    . She must have been uncomfortable, but we with babies were nauseated by her constant
                    complaining. She made thirty-seven dollars' worth of long distance calls trying to get some
                    doctor to get her a priority. No one could.
            Planes came and went. We mothers took turns hanging around the dispatch desk to heckle the clerks,
                    who probably would have carried us piggy-back to our destinations just to get rid of us. Gradually
                    the crowd thinned.
            In the evening we were told hotel rooms were authorized for only one night, so, since we had used up
                    that privilege, we simply staged a three-woman strike, commandeered the airport emergency room for
                    our infants, and refused to budge. About midnight the oldest boy fell out of bed and bruised his
                    forehead. He wailed, his mother wept, we others stormed the ticket desk demanding ice for his injury
                    and, in general, someone to do something. Never underestimate the power of three
                    women. The worn-out clerks wired 
                        Chicago
                     to sell no more nonpriority tickets until 
                        Minneapolis
                     could clear its waiting room.
            About dawn a girl came to us with a cheerful, "Does anyone want to go to Billings, 
                        Montana
                    ?"
            "I'll take that," I sang out. "We might get a bus to Great Falls
                    from there."
            "Oh, Great Falls?" She said it as if by then everyone in the whole terminal
                    didn't know where we were bound.
            "Oh, we can get you right through."
            My seat companion was the chronic complainer who enthralled me with a stitch-by-stitch account of her
                    operation all the way to Billings where, I thanked a merciful Heaven, she got off.
            
            About a week after our return to Great Falls, the field housing bureau offered 2307 Sixth Avenue
                    South to us. We lived there a year to the day. It was a five-room unit in the Villa, a privately
                    owned but government-controlled housing project to which, by some loophole, service families were
                    admitted. Rent was high. So were furnishings, which we leased, but we had a yard and two bedrooms
                    once more.
            Thanksgiving Day I was recovering from a heavy cold. We had two enlisted men for a duck dinner. I
                    never had eaten, much less prepared, duck. The fact that we had no roaster added challenge to the
                    project. I plopped the seasoned bird on a pie plate and turned on the gas oven. Soon we were
                    staggering through a smoke barrage the like of which chemical warfare never achieved, emptying the
                    pie plate every four minutes, my hollow hacking aggravated by smoke. They said the duck really was
                    tasty, but I'll never eat one.
            We came to the conclusion that Blinky was going to have a sister. Pregnancy was so much the fashion
                    among army wives that I had felt indecently exposed wearing a flat tummy and was delighted to be one
                    of the girls again. It was said that the high birth rate among service families in Great Falls was
                    due to subzero weather. Then there was a popular little ditty to the tune of "Pretty
                    Baby" which began: 
                        "If you're nervous in the Service
                        And you don't know what to do,
                        Have a baby, have a baby—."
                    
                
            Insuring themselves against impassable roads, commercial Christmas tree cutters brought their first
                    loads over the mountain from Kalispell on December 1. I paid a dollar for ours. Three strings of
                    tree lights mistakenly shipped from 
                        Nashville
                     now were happily unboxed. Replacement bulbs were unavailable, but, miraculously, none
                    burned out.
            Christmas Day two unmarried officers were our guests at noon. They were frequent visitors who
                    considered a part of accepting an invitation that they should wash dishes, but the accumulation from
                    the holiday meal was larger than usual. Late in the afternoon Joe's enlisted staff and
                    their wives dropped in for eggnog. The two lieutenants still were elbow deep in suds battling a
                    stubborn oyster pan. Their subordinates enjoyed that immensely and assumed a patronizing advisory
                    role in burned-pan logistics. They gave Blinky's new wooden train a workout too. There were
                    no metal toys available. The big boys in the Pacific had all those.
            
            
               BLINKY MAYBERRY (LEFT, FRONT ROW) AND
                            OTHER ARMY CHILDREN GATHERED FOR A BIRTHDAY PARTY, 1945
               Courtesy 
                            Virginia
                         Mayberry.
            
            There was an indefinable quality about parties at the officers' club at Gore Field that
                    never will be equalled. Of course we had our celebrities. Leonard Pennario's11 early concert piano career began at Gore Field. We all helped Captain Bob Crawford12 render raucous versions of "The Army Air Corps" song and
                    his lesser-known composition entitled "Kill the Bastards." But it was not the
                    entertainment I remember best. It had something to do with fraternity. Among people whose lives
                    existed only from day to day there developed a keener sensitivity for pleasure that lent intensity
                    to our brief joy. Man cannot own happiness, but he can borrow it almost anywhere.
            
               
                  11 Leonard Pennario, noted pianist, was born in 
                            New York City
                         in 1924. He appeared as a child prodigy with the Dallas Symphony and 
                            Los Angeles
                         Philharmonic. After serving in the Air Corps he toured the 
                            United States
                         and Europe in a trio with Jascha Heifetz, violinist, and Gregor Piatigorsky,
                        cellist. See International Cyclopedia of Music and Musicians (10th ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1975), 1645.
               
                  12 Robert M. Crawford, baritone and conductor, was born in the 
                            Yukon Territory
                         in 1899 and died in 
                            New York
                         in 1961. He studied at Juilliard and the American Conservatory at Fontainebleau, 
                            France
                        , and was in charge of the 
                            Newark
                         Symphony and a Chautauqua Orchestra in 1933. He composed several orchestral suites
                        and songs, among them the "Army Air Corps Song." There is a memorial plaque in
                        his honor inside the 
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  , airport. See Nicholas Slonimsky, Baker's Biographical Dictionary of Musicians (6th ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1978), 360.
            
            
            Spring snowed itself right out of existence. Women tried to raise a few flowers in the barren gumbo
                    of the Villa, despite the superstition that if a wife planted flowers it would surely bring about a
                    transfer for her husband.
            There were still chinooks. On nights when snow lay deep I awoke to hear the wind whining at the
                    doorsills and burrowed deeper into the covers. What a surprise at daybreak to find the hot gale had
                    melted a foot of snow in a few hours. I do not understand the physics of the chinook. Old-timers
                    wove yarns about it. Cattle wandered afar in the sudden warmth to get caught in the next blizzard.
                    The air force sometimes dropped dry feed to the cows when they could be located. Cattlemen hated
                    chinooks, but I thanked Heaven for their respite in the long 
                        Montana
                     winter.
            The same wind was no man's friend in summer. One night I awakened in discomfort. The corner
                    street light was almost obliterated, and I was choking with dust. Half an inch of fine yellow dirt
                    covered every surface in the house. It was piled in corners. It gritted between our teeth and was
                    ingrained in our hair. Sandstorms blew in four times that summer.
            As June wore on, I collected pink baby dresses. We planned for a girl. We were going to leave Blinky
                    with Winifred, our neighbor to the east, while I was in hospital. I hoped I could have another
                    officer's wife, a registered nurse, help me later at home. About the first of July Winifred
                    came over, green-faced.
            "I'm due about February tenth," she said. "I don't feel
                    so well."
            I bargained with Dusty, the neighbor west, to take Blinky. While I was in the hospital, Dusty, a
                    third neighbor, and the nurse all announced they were expecting; a fifth wife, who had been away on
                    leave, returned wearing drawstring dresses; my old friend Kia from Fifth Street joined the club; and
                    Ruth, our former neighbor at 
                        Nashville
                    , wrote confidential news. I was nonplussed at the pattern we had set.
            July turned hot for 
                        Montana
                    , the natives suffering tremendously as the thermometer reached the upper nineties. The
                    morning of the twenty-fifth I awoke at 5:30 and called Joe at 6:00. This was going to be harder on
                    him than me. Having been away at the time of Blinky's birth, he only now would be initiated
                    into the fraternity of waiting fathers. He didn't wait long. We dressed in a leisurely
                    fashion, wakened Blinky to say goodbye, and drove to the hospital.
            Suddenly everything became frenetic, like a speeded-up movie. It was a shoulder presentation. There
                    was no soothing hypodermic. Anesthetic had no time to take effect. When the doctor appeared, I was
                    engulfed by four black walls of pain and my own  hysterical
                    screaming. Before the epesiotomy I remember the doctor telling me once to shut up.
                    I was shocked but never stopped protesting this unexpected indignity to my body. I suppose any mere
                    man who earns his living listening to women yell themselves into motherhood frequently needs to
                    express hostility. At the time I was angry and in agony.
            Then someone asked, "What are you going to name this boy?"
            I giggled weakly, "Go ask his father. What in the world am I going to do with all those pink
                    dresses?"
            It was three days before we settled on Douglas for a name. He became Dinky immediately. Truly, I
                    think we both were a little relieved that the baby was a boy. Boys were easier to raise in army
                    installations, and we expected to live that way a long time. Everybody thought the war had to be
                    fought through all the islands to 
                        Japan
                    .
            Rumor flies fast in a military town. The commanding officer at Gore Field complained once that his
                    wife could tell him what was going to happen at the base before he ordered it. So it was not
                    surprising that, when a system of credit points was computed for length of service and dependents,
                    many families began to pack. Most of them had quite a wait.
            The women were impatient for discharge and would have moved mountains to speed it up. I really
                    didn't think about it until V-J day. The complete surprise of the Bomb made the
                    war's close, like its beginning, incomprehensible.
            In the Villa wives ran in and out of each other's houses, hugging. Children went without
                    baths. Meals were unprepared. The clinking of ice in tall glasses continued all day and far into the
                    night. High school girls established fortunes minding babies while people celebrated. We
                    couldn't find a girl, so an obliging little boy with a reputation for dependability was put
                    in charge of five sleeping infants in our compound.
            But while excitement mounted, while I chattered and laughed in the mardi-gras atmosphere of Victory
                    night, I had an uneasy feeling of needing to retreat, to sort things out. Of course I was glad the
                    war was over—wasn't I? Of course I wanted life to get back to normal, but what
                        was normal? Our family knew nothing but the service. The foundations of our
                    life, our wonderful, unpredictable, secure, military existence had crumbled with the A-bomb.
            In the days that followed I thrust gnawing fear back and back. Points for discharge, based on time of
                    service, time overseas, and number of dependents, were recomputed. With the two boys Joe had
                    seventy-five points, enough for immediate discharge.
            
            The day before Blinky's second birthday Kia and her husband invited us to join them on a
                    trip to Glacier Park. Their daughter and Blinky could go, too, but it was out of the question to
                    take along little Dink, just five weeks old. At the same time it was unthinkable to forgo our only
                    opportunity to visit the great park before leaving 
                        Montana
                    .
            Joe took a quick survey in his office and got information which led to the solution. A sergeant was
                    just back from Europe. His wife had not yet joined him, and the entire field had a three-day pass
                    for Labor Day. The sergeant said he could think of nothing more enjoyable than to spend his leave in
                    a real-for-sure house, reading and writing letters. He knew all about babies. His sister had
                    several.
            I was dubious, but Joe brought the sergeant home, and while we packed, I talked. Formulas held no
                    mystery for him. Dink's cod liver oil was an old acquaintance. Baths did not dismay. I felt
                    pretty smug about my small hoard of disposable diapers, even though they weren't much
                    heavier than paper towels. People to whom I divulged the identity of our sitter were anxious.
                    "But is the baby all right?" I can't see why infant
                    care should be regarded as a talent peculiar only to females.
            Gore Field was scheduled to close in November. We would leave October 16. I felt sick. I had no heart
                    for packing. We separated Blinky's wooden toys, crating the best, leaving broken ones for
                    the last few days of play. His birthday tricycle was relegated to the garage where our boxes awaited
                    army freighters. We sold houseplants to one neighbor, dime-store dishes to another, gave away
                    groceries. In three and one-half years of marriage we had made twelve moves, and this was the first
                    I had not looked at as an adventure.
            We had dinner next door. During the meal Blinky painted his new white shoes with nail polish called
                        Red Badge of Courage and drew pictures with a fountain pen on his clean, pink
                    overalls, but, without other incident, we climbed on the 7:30 train. The large group of friends who
                    saw us off at the station made me cry. I had never wept before.
            Good connections at 
                        Minneapolis
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     sped us on our way. Miles clicked by steadily and all the guilty while I wanted to
                    shout, "Stop, stop! Stop the train. Stop the clock. Let me think. Let me get used to this
                    idea. I don't like it. God help me, I don't like it at all."
            Out of 
                        Chicago
                     a nurse with six overseas stripes handed Blinky a three-franc piece. She told me French
                    women she had worked with had dry, coarse complexions from poor diet and brittle hair  dyed pink, blue, and purple in celebration of peace. It sounded crazy,
                    but the French always have known how to survive. Now I had to learn.
            A sailor radiating an alcoholic glow kept giving Blinky water in those flimsy little paper cups they
                    had on trains, the result being that every few jiggling rail miles necessitated a hasty trip for him
                    to the gentlemen's end of the car.
            We were in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Joe had three days at Baer Field, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , for debriefing and got a gold-colored "ruptured duck" pin to wear in
                    his lapel.13
            
            Our war was over and I was no longer a draftee's wife.14
            
            
               
                  13 "Ruptured duck" was the irreverent term given by
                        veterans to the eagle on the discharge pin they received. Probably it was one last attempt to
                        camoflage serious emotions with a joke.
               
                  14 The family settled in 
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana, Joe's hometown, where three more children were born. Virginia
                        has retired to freelancing from a variety of teaching and writing-related jobs. They now live in 
                            Middlebury
                        , Indiana, where Joe runs a small advertising agency and is well known as an acrylic
                        artist. Richard and Douglas both served in the army during the 
                            North Vietnam
                         conflict. There are three grandchildren.
            
         
         
         
            Robert S. Lynd, John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    
            
            
                    Charles E. Harvey
                    ∗
                
            Robert and Helen Lynd's celebrated studies, 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     and 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition, were reassessed in these pages several years ago by
                    sociologist-historian Richard Jensen as part of the observance of the fiftieth anniversary of the
                    publication of the first volume in 1929.1 Jensen held that the Lynds had made a
                    signal contribution to shifting sociology "away from the reform-oriented community survey
                    toward a scientific study of culture." Yet he took them to task for what he considered
                    inadequate methods of empirical analysis of social trends and a penchant for speculation. The issue
                    is not new. In fact, the Lynds' original investigation of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, involved an ongoing struggle with their sponsoring organization, John D.
                    Rockefeller, Jr.'s, Institute of Social and Religious Research, over the empirical validity
                    of their "anthropological" categories of interpretation. The question that Jensen
                    raised may be seen in broader historical perspective through an examination of that earlier dispute,
                    as revealed in the papers of the younger Rockefeller. The story strongly suggests that alternative
                    modes of conducting social science are rooted in the dynamics of class relations.
            Jensen rightly observed that "
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     was a stunning success." Reflecting the view of liberal intellectuals at the time,
                    Frederick Lewis Allen remarked in his popular contemporary 
                  
                     ∗ Charles E. Harvey is professor of history at 
                                California
                             State University, Chico. He gratefully acknowledges grants from the American
                            Philosophical Society for research and wishes to thank Joseph W. Ernst and the staff of the
                            Rockefeller Archive Center for their helpfulness, as well as the Indiana Historical Society
                            for the opportunity to present this material in a talk at a conference in 
                                Muncie
                             in September, 1981.
                  
                     1 Richard Jensen, "The Lynds Revisited," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXV (December, 1979), 303–19;
                            Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                             (
                                New York
                            , 1929); idem, 
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                                New York
                            , 1937).
               
                     account of the 1920s, Only Yesterday,
                    "I have made frequent use … of the extraordinarily varied and precise
                    information collected in 
                  
                            Middletown
                        , that remarkable sociological study of an American city…: I do not
                    see how any conscientious historian of the Post-war Decade could afford to neglect this mine of
                        material."2 But Raymond B. Fosdick, Rockefeller's key
                    adviser and the man who held the purse-strings of the sponsoring agency, had opposed its publication
                    on the grounds that it was too "scopey."3 Perhaps filling in
                    the specific historical setting for this disagreement, which Jensen renewed, will make abstract
                    arguments more concrete.
            Jensen's critique raised several points which should be considered. While the 
                        Chicago
                     school of sociology—largely financed by the Rockefellers—ignored
                        
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     in their search for "a hard science of society," the Lynds broadened the
                    discipline by using an anthropological concept of modernization which focused on the impact of
                    industrialization on values and personalities. Jensen argued, however, that they turned their report
                    into a "morality tale… exposing the contradictions of modernization" by
                    stressing the degradation of working class life under the domination of the business class, which
                    "was responsible for all the innovations, and thus all the problems." Jensen also
                    held that the Lynds failed to consider Max Weber's theory that religion initiated economic
                    modernization and shaped the business ethic because they were "committed to the proposition
                    that technology was the basic causal force in modernization, from which behavior, attitudes, and
                    values flowed." (In their second study a decade later, he wrote, they dropped "the
                    cutesy anthropology of the first volume." Hoping that the Depression would undermine the
                    business ethic with its blind faith in automatic progress, they supported the New Deal and
                    "believed in the necessity of national planning.") Jensen did not explicitly
                    accuse the Lynds of a vulgar Marxist materialism, nor did he commit himself to a Weberian critical
                    idealism. He concluded only that "… Robert Lynd was [later] overshadowed at 
                        Columbia
                     [University] by more theoretical and more quantitative sociologists who lost sight of
                    the community 
                  
                     2 Jensen, "The Lynds Revisited," 303; Frederick
                            Lewis Allen, Only Yesterday: An Informal History of the Nineteen-Twenties (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 358.
                  
                     3 Raymond B. Fosdick to Galen M. Fisher, December 31, 1925, Group 2,
                            Box 44, The Private Archives of the Messrs. Rockefeller (Rockefeller Center, 
                                New York City
                            ). Most of the papers of John D. Rockefeller, Jr., remain at the archives,
                            hereafter cited as PAMR. The Rockefeller Archive Center (RAC) in Tarrytown, 
                                New York
                            , is the official repository of family and related papers and will eventually
                            hold the papers now in 
                                New York City
                            .
               
                     midway between microscopic technical studies and grand
                    macroscopic theories."4
            
            Whether or not the Lynds were technological determinists is moot, but they certainly did emphasize
                    class as a determinant of culture. The overarching reality of "
                        Middletown
                    ," as they presented it, was an inequitable division along class lines. Their
                    books remain devastating critiques of business ideology as the unifying force of a community whose
                    behavior belied its official creed of equal opportunity and moral solidarity. They obviously hoped
                    that their work would revive a more realistic social consciousness, even if, as Jensen would have
                    it, their image of greater working class self-awareness in the 1890s may have been exaggerated.
            Robert Lynd was a committed progressive in the age of Coolidge conservatism, and 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     conveys this perspective unmistakably. As an intellectual, he sympathized with the ruled
                    rather than with the rulers. Later, in 1939, he protested formally against the dominant mode of
                    social science, which he knew intimately from his close association with its Rockefeller-financed
                    mobilization in the 1920s through the Social Science Research Council. In Knowledge for
                        What? The Place of Social Science in American Culture, he called for its transformation
                    from an instrument of class rule into a technique of human liberation and fulfillment: 
                        There is no other agency in our culture whose rôle it is to ask long-range and, if
                            need be, abruptly irreverent questions of our democratic institutions; and to follow these
                            questions with research and the systematic charting of the way ahead. The responsibility is
                            to keep everlastingly challenging the present with the question: But what is it that we
                            human beings want, and what things would have to be done, in what ways and in what sequence,
                            in order to change the present so as to achieve it? … With such research and
                            planning, we may yet make real the claims of freedom and opportunity in America.5
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  4 Jensen, "The Lynds Revisited," 305, 307, 316, 318.
               
                  5 Robert S. Lynd, Knowledge for What? The Place of Social
                            Science in American Culture (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1939), 250. Barry D. Karl, Charles E. Merriam and the Study of
                            Politics (
                            Chicago
                        , 1974), offers a penetrating analysis of the underlying tension within the social
                        sciences during the interwar period, identifying Merriam on the one hand and historian Charles
                        A. Beard on the other as the primary protagonists. The lines were not clear-cut, according to
                        Karl, but differences of emphasis led by 1933 to a profound cleavage. The schism is perhaps best
                        expressed in Beard's criticism of the report of President Herbert Hoover's
                        Committee on Recent Social Trends in that year. This report, prepared under the auspices of the
                        Social Science Research Council and with Merriam's leadership, was financed by
                        Rockefeller funds. Lynd would certainly have agreed with Beard's statement that
                        "The scientific method is only a method. Dreams, plans, purposes, and collective will
                        must come from the human mind and heart. Where they exist, science can discover the facts that
                        condition realization and furnish instrumentalities for carrying plan and purpose into
                        effect." See Karl, Merriam, 223, citing Beard's review in
                            Social Forces, XI (May, 1933), 510.
            
            
            These are matters that Jensen obscured because he avoided the whole issue of power which divides
                    society. For this reason he missed the real story of 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     and its role in the shaping of modern social science. Ironically, the sacrificial youthful
                    efforts of Robert and Helen Lynd have become the stock-in-trade of many academics who lack the
                    Lynds' concern for the needs and aspirations of ordinary working people and the unemployed,
                    although their minority voice has found amplification in the work of some younger scholars today.6 One can hope to share in this late realization of the Lynds' deeper
                    ideals by recounting the long-secret inner story of the origins of their classical project in the
                    context of a massive program devoted to a different kind of social science and sponsored by John D.
                    Rockefeller, Jr. One trusts that the materials used will not appear to be, as Jensen saw much of the
                    Lynds' evidence, a deceptive facade for mere speculation. For the writing of 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     and the relationship which it involved, however indirect, between Robert S. Lynd and John D.
                    Rockefeller, Jr., constitutes one of the most enlightening episodes of the 1920s precisely because
                    of its exposure of the connection between social power and thought about society.7
            
            First, it is necessary to understand how Rockefeller came to support social science research. The
                    heir to the world's greatest fortune received his baptism of fire when in April, 1914, he
                    unexpectedly found himself at the center of social and political controversy. The death of several
                    women and children at Ludlow, 
                        Colorado
                    , brought the long, violent strike in that state's coalfields to national
                    attention. Despite his denials, the 
                        United States
                     Industrial Commission exposed Rockefeller's firm support of his
                    company's rigidly antiunion policy. Coming at the climax of America's post-Civil
                    War industrialization, as the reforms of the first Wilson administration sought to adjust democracy
                    to centralized finance capitalism, Ludlow suddenly made Rockefeller 
                  
                     6 A good sampling of recent work is to be found in Robert F. Arnove,
                            ed., Philanthropy and Cultural Imperialism: The Foundations at Home and
                            Abroad (
                                Boston
                            , 1980); a pioneering effort was David Eakins, "The Development of
                            Corporate Liberal Policy Research" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History,
                            University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1966).
                  
                     7
                            Journal of the History of Sociology, II (Fall-Winter,
                            1979–1980), was a Robert S. Lynd special issue featuring articles by Staughton
                            Lynd and others as well as reprints of several early pieces by Robert Lynd. For a more
                            extensive discussion of the subject beyond his relationship with Lynd, see Charles E.
                            Harvey, "John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and the Social Sciences: An
                            Introduction," Journal of the History of Sociology, IV (Fall,
                            1982), 1–31.
               
                     the symbol of the nation's fundamental problem:
                    concentrated economic power and its responsibility to society.8
            
            Guided by eminent and shrewd advisers, Rockefeller adopted a labor and public relations policy
                    intended to avoid industrial conflict while preserving managerial control. Equally important, he
                    sponsored a wide range of programs aimed at maintaining class harmony under corporate capitalism.
                    Among the agencies he financed for this purpose, the one closest to his own heart, at least at its
                    inception, was the Institute of Social and Religious Research. In 1923 the Institute hired Robert S.
                    Lynd to conduct an innovative study of a small industrial city, a project which was to be the
                    centerpiece of its endeavors.9
            
            Lynd, a banker's son from New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, and a 1914 graduate of 
                        Princeton
                    , had risen rapidly in the publishing business in 
                        New York
                     until 1919, when he entered Union Theological Seminary in that city. According to his
                    son, he was inspired by an experience when he was hospitalized, perhaps during the influenza
                    epidemic of 1918, of directly helping other convalescents. "Serving the people seems the
                    biggest happiness of which I am capable," he wrote in 1920 in explanation of his new
                    vocation, "and I am simply cutting across lots as straight as I can after it." As
                    summer field work for his seminary training, in 1921 Lynd went out to serve the churches of the Elk
                    Basin, Wyoming, oil fields.10 The following spring he took it upon himself to
                    write Rockefeller about the deplorable living conditions of the workers and their families because
                    the fields belonged to a subsidiary of Indiana Standard, in which Rockefeller remained the major
                    stockholder. Lynd urged Rockefeller to make good on his well-publicized industrial
                    "liberalism" by seeing that life was improved for the oil workers. Rockefeller
                    took the matter up at a private dinner with the formidable president of the company (against whom he
                    later led a proxy fight over matters pertaining to the Teapot Dome scandal) but did not reply to
                    Lynd. In June Lynd wrote again urging Rockefeller to act. This time Rockefeller responded,
                    expressing appreciation for Lynd's interest and assuring him that, 
                  
                     8 The most complete treatment is George S. McGovern and Leonard F.
                            Guttridge, The Great Coalfield War (
                                Boston
                            , 1972); the standard biography, by Rockefeller's closest adviser, is
                            Raymond B. Fosdick, John D. Rockefeller, Jr.: A Portrait (
                                New York
                            , 1956).
                  
                     9 Charles E. Harvey, "John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and the
                            Interchurch World Movement of 1919–1920: A Different Angle on the Ecumenical
                            Movement," Church History, LI (June, 1982), 198–209,
                            provides the background for the Institute.
                  
                     10 Staughton Lynd, "Robert S. Lynd: The Elk Basin
                            Experience," Journal of the History of Sociology,
                            II (Fall-Winter, 1979–1980), 14.
               
                     while his own concern for the workers was vastly greater than
                    Lynd's could be, longstanding problems were not easily solved.11
            
            Lynd grew impatient with Rockefeller's apparently evasive stance on union recognition and
                    his method of persuading management to attend to workers' needs, so in the fall of 1922 he
                    published two articles that held the capitalist's feet to the fire: "Crude Oil
                    Religion" in the September issue of Harper's and "Done
                    in Oil" in the November Survey. In the latter Lynd not only indicted life
                    in the oil fields but went on to cite a Federal Trade Commission report on Indiana
                    Standard's domination of the whole region, adding quotations from his own correspondence
                    with Rockefeller and the company president, who had held that changes were not economically
                        feasible.12
            
            The crux of Lynd's argument was that Indiana Standard allowed a twelve-hour day and a
                    seven-day week for many men in a wholly controlled subsidiary, thus evading the labor practices
                    Rockefeller had long and prominently upheld. Lynd forcefully concluded that only union organization
                    throughout the industry could provide a long-term solution to such problems as he had exposed.
                    Rockefeller's response, printed in the same issue of Survey, was a
                    vaguely humanitarian stand, upholding the labor policies of the companies in which he had
                    substantial influence and claiming that the Elk Basin situation was exceptional. For this
                    pronouncement he received the praise of his associates. His minister, Harry Emerson Fosdick, wrote
                    him that he was "doing an incalculable service in coming out so freely and sanely on the
                    side of industrial liberalism."13
            
            Lynd's attack, however, struck at the heart of Rockefeller's industrial
                    "liberalism" and, indeed, at his whole moral posture. Rockefeller had stated in
                    his published response to Lynd: "So far as concerns the discharge of my own responsibility
                    as a stock-holder 
                  
                     11 See Robert S. Lynd to John D. Rockefeller, Jr., March 11, 1922,
                            Group 1, Box 132, PAMR; Lynd to Rockefeller, June 29, 1922, ibid.;
                            Rockefeller to Lynd, July 3, 1922, ibid.; the file containing these
                            letters also contains other pertinent correspondence.
                  
                     12 Robert S. Lynd, "Crude Oil Religion," Harper's, CXLV (September, 1922), 425–34; idem, "Done in Oil," Survey,
                            XLIX (November 1, 1922), 136–46, 175.
                  
                     13 Harry Emerson Fosdick to Rockefeller, October 31, 1922, Group 1,
                            Box 132, PAMR. A few years later when the preacher waxed too eloquent one Sunday on
                            industrial evils, he got a clear, if diplomatic, letter from his chief patron to the effect
                            that that was long ago and far away from their enlightened age; see Rockefeller to Harry
                            Emerson Fosdick, December 19, 1927, Group 5, Box 62, ibid. For a broader
                            picture of their relationship, see Robert Moats Miller, "Harry Emerson Fosdick and
                            John D. Rockefeller, Jr.: The Origins of an Enduring Association," Foundations: A Baptist Journal of History and Theology, XXI (October-December,
                            1978), 292–304.
               
                     for better industrial conditions and relations, I have made
                    special provision for assistance in just such tasks as these, which are sometimes onerous, often
                    perplexing, but always close to my heart." This was a veiled allusion to a small staff of
                    industrial relations experts he retained in the law offices of his chief personal adviser, Raymond
                    B. Fosdick, Harry's younger brother. Fosdick's group carried on the work begun
                    after Ludlow by the eminent Canadian, W.L. Mackenzie King, of developing corporate grievance panels
                    with labor representation and other meliorative programs. This "
                        Colorado
                     Plan" allowed workers to belong to unions if they wished but did not recognize
                    such unions formally or engage in collective bargaining. Rockefeller sought to spread this approach,
                    but he never budged from his resistance to what he considered the forced unionization of the
                        workers.14
            
            Fosdick's labor staff confirmed Lynd's description of the Elk Basin situation, and
                    an independent study by the aggressive and widely respected industrial staff of the maverick Russell
                    Sage Foundation kept pressure on Rockefeller to move ahead to outright union recognition and
                    collective bargaining as the only sound basis for labor relations. The personal attention that
                    Rockefeller gave to both Lynd's and the Sage staffs criticisms indicates how important the
                    matter was for him.15
            
            All sides concurred that class relations constituted the central problem of civilization. In long
                    letters to Rockefeller during and after the Ludlow crisis King had presented his vision of the
                    evolution of capital-labor relations as analogous to British constitutional history. In a series of
                    addresses and articles, Rockefeller expressed his view that King's grievance system would
                    restore the preindustrial "personal relation" in industry between master and
                        apprentice.16 And Raymond Fosdick, while a top official of the League of
                    Nations in 1919, had expressed his outlook in a letter to his brother: 
                        Labor should organize. I am coming more and more to believe that the open shop is
                            fundamentally a wrong principle and while it may have fitted things as they 
                        
                           14 Charles E. Harvey, "Religion and Industrial
                                    Relations: John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and the Interchurch World Movement of
                                    1919–1920," Research in Political Economy, IV (1981),
                                    199–227, deals with these themes.
                        
                           15 In 1926 Fosdick's labor relations staff became
                                    Industrial Relations Counselors, Inc.; the papers are located in Group 3, Box 16,
                                    PAMR. Rockefeller's correspondence with the Sage staff is in Group 3, Box
                                    14, ibid.; it illustrates his sensitivity to criticism and his
                                    trenchant defense of his policy.
                        
                           16 The King-Rockefeller correspondence is in Group 5, Boxes
                                    72–73, PAMR; Rockefeller's statements are printed in John D.
                                    Rockefeller, Jr., The Personal Relation in Industry (
                                        New York
                                    , n.d.), which was published about 1922.
                     
                             existed five years ago, it cannot possibly suit the
                            temper of this age. But the better labor is organized and the greater the degree of
                            solidarity between labor unions, the greater is the menace of a labor dictatorship, which in
                            most countries, I believe, would be a dictatorship by the minority, just as it is in Russia
                            today. The obvious answer and the answer which I know will occur to your mind, is
                            education—the mellowing influence of the school and the church. If we had a
                            century or two to work this thing out in, I think that answer would be the right one; but we
                            haven't a century or two. This matter is going to come to a crisis in the next
                            decade; and it is going to come, I fear, in passion and hatred in the same temper in which
                            this railroad strike is developing now in 
                                England
                            .17
                  
                     Internationally, Fosdick thought the League was needed to stabilize a world market that
                    could provide an economic basis for peaceful class relations.18
            
            By 1920 Raymond Fosdick had become, in effect, the chancellor of Rockefeller philanthropy. As such,
                    he sought to apply that unprecedented benefice to the Archimedian point of class relations by
                    developing a science of society along the empirical lines of his prewar studies of police systems
                    for Rockefeller.19 Lynd and the Sage people, on the other hand, called for the
                    redistribution of economic power through union recognition and collective bargaining. By stressing
                    the interests of working people in this way, Lynd's Harper's and
                        Survey articles addressed the same issue as Fosdick's efforts, but
                    from the opposite perspective.
            Despite the public dispute in Survey between the world's leading
                    capitalist and an obscure seminary student, or perhaps because of it—given the inner
                    dynamics of the Rockefeller circle at the time—Lynd shortly received the coveted
                    appointment as director of the small city study that was the focus of the work of
                    Rockefeller's Institute of Social and Religious Research. This was especially remarkable
                    given the dearth of financing for such research at the time. How, then, did this come about? What
                    were the circumstances surrounding this development?
            For the younger Rockefeller, as for the nation and the world, 1919 had proven a pivotal year. While
                    President Woodrow Wilson 
                  
                     17 Raymond B. Fosdick to Harry E. Fosdick, September 9, 1919, Box 5,
                            Raymond B. Fosdick Papers (Seeley Mudd Manuscript Library, 
                                Princeton
                             University, 
                                Princeton
                            , N.J.).
                  
                     18 Raymond B. Fosdick to Rockefeller, September 18, 1919, printed in
                            Raymond B. Fosdick, Letters on the League of Nations (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1966), 34. See also idem, The Old Savage in the New
                                Civilization (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1929).
                  
                     19 This interpretation is developed in Harvey, "John D.
                            Rockefeller, Jr., and the Social Sciences," which is based on research in the
                            papers of the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial and other Rockefeller foundations at RAC,
                            in the Fosdick Papers at 
                                Princeton
                             University, and in Rockefeller's papers at PAMR; see also Daryl L.
                            Revoldt, "Raymond B. Fosdick: Reform, Internationalism, and the Rockefeller
                            Foundation" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, University of Akron,
                        1982).
               
                     and Senator Henry Cabot Lodge fought over American membership
                    in the League of Nations against the background of Russian Bolshevism spreading throughout Europe
                    and Asia, a mounting wave of strikes and radical agitation led to antiradical political repression
                    and vigilante action in the 
                        United States
                    .20 Rockefeller's advisers resisted his impulse to go to
                    Europe, where the Rockefeller Foundation heavily supported Herbert Hoover's efforts to
                    still the fires of revolution through food relief. They held that his presence there would lend
                    credence to the anticapitalist slogans of the revolutionaries. He therefore accepted an appointment
                    to represent the public (rather than management) at the President's Industrial Conference
                    in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    —a tribute to his success in overcoming the onus of Ludlow. There his brand
                    of industrial "liberalism" failed to win the support of either management or labor
                    and the conference broke up, leaving a major steel strike to be crushed, and with it the labor
                        movement.21
            
            Deeply disturbed by the course of events at home and abroad, at the end of the year Rockefeller, as
                    he put it, "felt impelled to throw myself… to the fullest extent" into
                    the Interchurch World Movement of 1919–1920.22 This adventure took
                    place after the departure of Mackenzie King to assume leadership of the Liberal party of 
                        Canada
                     and before the return of Raymond Fosdick from service as associate secretary general of
                    the League of Nations. It could be termed Rockefeller's coming of age, although he was then
                    forty-five. It led directly to Lynd's 
                  
                            Middletown
                        .
            
            One of the most critical, though overlooked, events in modern American church history, the
                    Interchurch World Movement had begun as a cooperative drive by the major Protestant denominations to
                    raise $336 million for their overall domestic and foreign outreach programs. Inspired in
                    part by the $200 million raised by the United War Work Campaign of late 1918, in which
                    Rockefeller had enthusiastically participated, the churches mounted a huge publicity campaign based
                    on extensive field surveys of global social and religious needs that they hoped to meet. Both the
                    war work and Interchurch drives were chaired by John R. Mott, world-famous college evangelist, head
                    of the North American 
                  
                     20 Arno J. Mayer, Politics and Diplomacy of Peacemaking:
                                Containment and Counterrevolution at 
                                    Versailles
                                , 1918–1919 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), gives the general background; Robert K. Murray, Red Scare:
                                A Study in National Hysteria, 1919–1920 (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1955), gives the domestic scene.
                  
                     21 These observations are based on research in papers relevant to
                            Rockefeller's interest in industrial relations in the archives cited above and in
                            the Rockefeller Foundation's administrative papers at RAC, along with standard
                            sources.
                  
                     22 Rockefeller to Cyrus R. McCormick, May 26, 1920, Group 2, Box 40,
                            PAMR.
               
                     YMCA, and leader of the cooperative missions movement of
                    America and Europe.23
            
            The Rockefellers long had been the largest financial supporters of Mott and his organizations and had
                    constructed a series of YMCA buildings in colonial lands. They likewise benefited from
                    Mott's contacts with college men and women in every country. Since Mott had led the first
                    great ecumenical missions conference at Edinburgh in 1910, the younger Rockefeller's
                    association with his work had grown steadily, especially during World War I when the Y's
                    took the lead in morale work with servicemen. Under the auspices of his own antiprostitution Bureau
                    of Social Hygiene, Rockefeller had financed Fosdick as coordinator of YMCA and interfaith morale
                    work in the War Department. These activities had reached their peak with the war work drive the week
                    of the Armistice and with Fosdick's subsequent direction of leisure programs for the young
                    Americans threatened by the danger of lax moral standards in peacetime 
                        France
                    . It was from this position that Wilson had selected Fosdick, a former 
                        Princeton
                     student of the president, for the top American post in the League's
                        secretariat.24
            
            After his Ludlow trauma, Rockefeller had become a strong advocate of a unified "Church of
                    the Future" whose YMCA-like practical Christianity and social service would, he thought,
                    promote class harmony.25 This concept had led to his excitement about the
                    promise of the Interchurch's cooperative fundraising drive as the financial nucleus of an
                    efficient, centrally administered, forward-moving world religious crusade. Perhaps an important part
                    of his thinking is suggested by the objective of the Laymen's Foreign Mission Inquiry,
                    which he initiated and financed in the early 1930s: this project was to itemize missions projects so
                    that contributors could underwrite only the specific 
                  
                     23 Eldon G. Ernst, Moment of Truth for Protestant
                                America: Interchurch Campaigns Following World War One (Missoula, Mont., 1972), is
                            the authoritative work on the subject; it is based on Ernst's even more thorough
                            dissertation, "The Interchurch World Movement, 1919–1920"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Yale University, 1968). C. Howard Hopkins, John R. Mott, 1865–1955: A Biography (Grand Rapids, Mich.,
                            1979), traces Mott's remarkable career with due reference to Rockefeller.
                  
                     24 These observations are based on relevant materials in the
                            Rockefeller archives; Raymond B. Fosdick's autobiography, Chronicle of
                                a Generation (
                                New York
                            , 1958); Revoldt, "Raymond B. Fosdick"; an anonymous,
                            privately printed volume, The War Work of John D. Rockefeller, Jr. (n.p.,
                            n.d.), commissioned by his wife and published for the family in the early 1920s; and
                            contemporary reports in the 
                                New York
                            
                            Times.
                  
                  
                     25 John D. Rockefeller, Jr., "The Christian
                            Church—What Of Its Future?" Saturday Evening Post, CXC
                            (February 9, 1918), 16, 37; this article also was printed privately in pamphlet form at that
                            time and again in 1945 by Rockefeller.
               
                    
                    
                  S. EARL TAYLOR, SECRETARY OF INTERCHURCH WORLD MOVEMENT, AND JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER, JR., APRIL 5, 1920
                  Courtesy Rockefeller Archive Center, North Tarrytown, N.Y.
               
                    
                  RAYMOND B. FOSDICK, 1936
                  Courtesy Rockefeller Archive Center, North Tarrytown, N.Y.
               
                     programs they favored. This obviously would enhance the
                    influence of the largest givers in shaping policies.26
            
            Although the report on the 1919 steel strike that was issued under Interchurch auspices was more
                    pro-union than was his own position, Rockefeller joined the Interchurch's budget review
                    committee late that year. At the Movement's kickoff World Survey Conference in January,
                    1920, he presented his committee's report, which called for a maximal campaign budget, and
                    gave his familiar talk on the church of the future. He soon became a member of the executive
                    committee, where at a moment when denominational leaders wavered he offered a personal
                    million-dollar guarantee of Interchurch borrowing for the largest possible publicity drive. He later
                    had cause to regret this financial commitment.27
            
            Meanwhile, during a tour of sixteen eastern and midwestern cities to win the backing of leading
                    businessmen, Rockefeller reached the peak of his enthusiasm for the Movement. Encouraged by its
                    executive director, he asked his father to create a new foundation of fifty to a hundred million
                    dollars. Such a fund would enable the Interchurch to become the basis for broad Protestant
                    unification on a liberal social and theological platform. The endowment would bind ministers of
                    participating churches in a common pension fund and merge the denominations' foreign and
                    domestic mission programs. "I do not think we can overestimate the importance of this
                    Movement," he wrote his father. "As I see it, it is capable of having a much more
                    far-reaching influence than the League of Nations in bringing about peace, contentment, goodwill and
                    prosperity among the people of the earth."28 Making a less idealistic
                    pitch to an old friend, he observed, 
                        I know of no better insurance for a businessman for the safety of his investments, the
                            prosperity of the country and the future stability of our government than this Movement
                            affords, for in the last analysis all of these are dependent on the 
                        
                           26 The records of the Laymen's Inquiry are in Group
                                    2, Box 43, PAMR. For further background see Charles E. Harvey, "Speer
                                    versus Rockefeller and Mott, 1910–1935," Journal of
                                        Presbyterian History, LX (Winter, 1982), 283–99, especially
                                    294–95.
                        
                           27 An undated, typed memorandum with no indication of
                                    authorship, entitled "Interchurch World Movement," in
                                    Rockefeller's papers provides a clue to his staff's concerns. It
                                    cites passages from the minutes of the executive committee of the Interchurch, of
                                    which Rockefeller was a member after January, 1920, which could be used in court to
                                    establish his personal liability for all outstanding Interchurch debts.
                                    Correspondence between Raymond B. Fosdick and longtime Rockefeller staff attorney,
                                    Starr J. Murphy, concerning these matters suggests that it was prepared by Murphy.
                                    See Group 2, Box 41, PAMR.
                        
                           28 John D. Rockefeller, Jr., to John D. Rockefeller, April 21,
                                    1920, ibid.
                        
                     
                             character of our people, and the Church is the greatest
                            instrumentality for the development and maintenance of character. On these grounds of
                            personal and far reaching public importance I am taking the liberty of suggesting a gift
                            from you of ten thousand dollars.29
                  
                     Unfortunately for Rockefeller the whole effort backfired, succeeding for the denominations
                    but failing for the separate Interchurch appeal. While the churches raised half their goal,
                    $176 million, the central organization raised only $3 million of its
                    $40 million target, and even that came mostly from the Rockefellers.30
            
            Rockefeller's intense disappointment is apparent in his last desperate appeal to family
                    connection Cyrus R. McCormick, in which he lamented that "the feeling is growing every day
                    stronger upon me that if it fails to solve the problem of civilization then only the deluge is
                        left…."31 Worse, beyond losing the millions he had
                    invested in church amalgamation, Rockefeller's million-dollar guarantee to insure the
                    full-budget promotional drive made him legally liable, according to his staff lawyer, for the entire
                    remaining Interchurch debt of $6,5 million. Even more damaging would have been the
                    scandal which would have accompanied the revelation of his role in a campaign notorious for its
                    unseemly big business methods, its centralizing intent, its liberalism—and its failure.
            Into the breach of this second but, unlike Ludlow, secret crisis in Rockefeller's life
                    stepped Raymond Fosdick, who had resigned from his League post when the Senate finally rejected
                    American membership in March, 1920. Warning about the danger of scandal, he persuaded Rockefeller to
                    follow a plan he had deftly arranged with Methodist officials to let the capitalist make good on his
                    million-dollar guarantee in an indirect way that would insulate him from the bulk of Interchurch
                    debts. Fosdick then took behind-the-scenes control of the Interchurch organization under a virtual
                    Rockefeller receivership, dissolved it as economically as possible (while arranging for a
                    documentary "history" that kept Rockefeller's role obscure for over sixty
                    years), and yet saved its principal assets for his employer.32
            
            The most important of the assets were the field surveys of religious and social needs on which the
                    Interchurch had based its 
                  
                     29 Rockefeller to George F. Peabody, April 5, 1920, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30 Ernst, Moment of Truth, 144, 145.
                  
                     31 Rockefeller to Cyrus R. McCormick, May 4, 1920, Group 2, Box 40,
                            PAMR. McCormick replied that he was more optimistic and thought extending credits to Europe
                            while continuing to support ongoing church work would be more effective; see McCormick to
                            Rockefeller, May 17, 1920, ibid.
                  
                  
                     32 See the author's articles on the Interchurch, cited above,
                            for a more thorough discussion of this episode.
               
                     financial appeal. Rockefeller wished to use these reports as a
                    vehicle for creating a successor to the Interchurch which, with the huge endowment he still
                    envisioned, could proceed with his plan to unify the Protestant churches and more effectively
                    advance the world mission he conceived for them. During the summer of 1920, as Fosdick disentangled
                    him from the Interchurch, Rockefeller employed a few of its former officials to lay plans for the
                    new agency. At first known as the Committee on Social and Religious Surveys, it featured John R.
                    Mott once again as chairman. To hold the confidence of the churches as much as possible, the
                    Rockefeller group selected Charles R. Watson, president of the American University of Cairo and an
                    Interchurch official, as the Committee's director. This was a strategic choice because
                    Watson's chief at the Presbyterian mission board, Robert E. Speer, was a consistent critic
                    of Rockefeller and Mott for their tendency to override the creedal and representative commitments of
                    the churches. Furthermore, Speer had just become president of the Federal Council of Churches with a
                    mandate from the denominations to restore its role, temporarily usurped by the Interchurch, as their
                    primary means of cooperation.33
            
            Fosdick, however, had plans of his own. His brother Harry's sermon "Shall the
                    Fundamentalists Win?" would soon spark the most famous kulturkampf of the
                    era when widely distributed by Rockefeller's public relations man, Ivy Lee. The scholarly
                    minister quickly became the paladin of modernist forces in that battle. But Raymond carried out a
                    more subtle and far-reaching scheme.34 Having rescued Rockefeller from the
                    Interchurch fiasco during the summer of 1920, he inherited Mackenzie King's role as
                    Rockefeller's chief adviser on industrial relations; then, in mid-1921, when the
                    Rockefeller's house attorney died, Fosdick assumed his place as well. Rockefeller was
                    devoting more of his own time to his growing family; yet it became essential to make long-range
                    plans for the huge foundations his father had created, which had grown—beyond the bounds
                    of constitutional theory—to major new repositories of social power. Like their founder,
                    the administrators of these giant engines of social change were passing into old age. 
                  
                     33 Harvey, "Speer versus Rockefeller and Mott,
                            1910–1935."
                  
                     34 Material on the fundamentalist controversy is in
                            Rockefeller's correspondence with Harry Emerson Fosdick, Group 5, Box 62, PAMR. The
                            current standard on the subject is George M. Marsden, Fundamentalism and
                                American Culture: The Shaping of Twentieth-Century Evangelicalism,
                            1870–1925 (
                                New York
                            , 1980). On theological liberalism see William R. Hutchison, The
                                Modernist Impulse in American Protestantism (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1976); and Harry Emerson Fosdick, The Living of These
                                Days: An Autobiography (
                                New York
                            , 1956).
               
                     Fosdick, who had carefully ingratiated himself with
                    Rockefeller's wife and children, had seen the heights of the world and proven himself in a
                    variety of assignments both within the Rockefeller domain and in public affairs. Thus
                    Fosdick's vision would guide the vast network of Rockefeller philanthropic enterprises in a
                    period when lack of large-scale government support for intellectual inquiry and the absence of
                    comparable private undertakings gave them unique influence. Here was the opportunity to give
                    meaningful direction to human history, but to what ends and by what means?35
            
            For Fosdick, the key lay in the application of empirical method to human nature. What was needed was
                    a science of society. But the associates of the elder Rockefeller, still in charge of the
                    endowments, strongly resisted the prospect of exposing the family name to a renewal of the political
                    attacks it had weathered in the past. Better to stick to medicine and public health! Fosdick found
                    the means of evading this opposition in a large new endowment created in 1918 in honor of the
                    founder's wife, the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial. Fosdick had assigned Charles R.
                    Watson to spend half his time administering the Memorial's religious and charitable grants
                    when Rockefeller retained the missionary educator to handle the as yet limited business of the
                    Committee on Social and Religious Surveys. When Watson felt obligated to return to 
                        Egypt
                     late in 1921, Fosdick found his great opportunity. The Memorial could be reoriented
                    from subsidizing the budgets of numerous agencies that, according to Rockefeller principles of
                    giving, should become self-sufficient, to financing pathbreaking research that would help to solve
                    the underlying problems of society. For this purpose, Fosdick arranged for Beardsley Ruml, a
                    brilliant and well-connected young industrial psychologist, to become director of the Memorial.
                    Galen Fisher, an executive of Mott's YMCA who had long served in 
                        Japan
                    , was then selected to head the Survey Committee, which under Fosdick's
                    orchestration dropped any ambition of becoming the vehicle of church unification itself. Instead the
                    Committee promoted liberal church unity through empirical social studies, renaming itself the
                    Institute of Social and Religious Research.36
            
            Throughout the 1920s Raymond Fosdick devoted his remarkable intelligence, charm, and energy to the
                    unification of the Rockefeller boards, with the Memorial as the component which, 
                  
                     35 See note 18.
                  
                     36 See note 18; for further background see E. Richard Brown, Rockefeller Medicine Men: Medicine and Capitalism in America (
                                Berkeley
                            , Calif., 1979).
               
                     through social science, could in turn give direction to the
                    advancement of physical science and of civilization in general. Ruml's final report after a
                    decade on the cutting edge of social science conveys the guiding concept: 
                        In the autumn of 1922 the Trustees of the Memorial considered an extended memorandum
                            outlining a possible program in the social sciences. Through the promotion of the social
                            sciences it was felt that there would come a greater knowledge as to social conditions, a
                            better understanding of social forces, and a higher objectivity in the development of social
                            policy. It was felt that through the social sciences might come more intelligent measures of
                            social control that would reduce such irrationalities as are represented by poverty, class
                            conflict, and war between nations. It was expected that this growing body of knowledge would
                            prove helpful in showing effective ways of promoting human welfare, and that through greater
                            understanding of man and his relations to other men the growing power over the forces of
                            nature would more likely be applied for good than for evil. The relevance of such a field to
                            the welfare interests of the Memorial appeared clear, and the officers were encouraged to
                            work out practical methods of attack.37
                  
                    
                
            Rather than conducting its own research, as the other Rockefeller boards did, the Memorial subsidized
                    specific work at established institutions, primarily universities. Its key methodological criteria
                    were "immediate personal observation of the social problems or social phenomena,"
                    the avoidance of "speculative, bibliographical, or merely literary" work (a dig at
                    Mackenzie King's culminating volume, Industry and Humanity), and
                    interdisciplinary cooperation. It assumed that "the present categories in social
                    science—economics, political science, sociology, anthropology, psychology—are
                    essentially artificial, that their usefulness as a basis for social research is limited, and that a
                    synthesis is necessary from which a new and more fruitful division of labor may be
                        achieved."38 To move American social science along these lines,
                    Ruml organized and financed the Social Science Research Council, which he developed through a series
                    of summer conferences at Dartmouth College in 
                  Hanover, New Hampshire
               , known
                    as the "
                        Hanover
                     Conferences."39
            
            
               
                  37 [Beardsley Ruml], The Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial
                            Final Report (
                            New York
                        , 1933), 10–11. At the end of the 1920s the Memorial was succeeded by the
                        Spelman Fund, which financed programs in the field of public administration and was led by
                        Charles E. Merriam of the University of 
                            Chicago
                        ; Karl, Merriam, 118–39.
               
                  38 Quotes from [Ruml], Final Report, 11–12;
                        the criteria clearly conflicted at points with Lynd's approach and were used by Fosdick
                        to criticize Lynd. W.L. Mackenzie King, Industry and Humanity: A Study in the
                            Principles Underlying Industrial Reconstruction (
                            Boston
                        , 1918).
               
                  39 Transcripts of the conferences are in the Laura Spelman Rockefeller
                        Memorial Papers at RAC.
            
            
            Only insiders knew of Rockefeller's intention of using the Institute of Social and Religious
                    Research to unify the churches in class-harmonizing social service. Its publicly stated purpose was
                    simply to complete five field studies begun by the Interchurch: Theological Education in America,
                    the Red Man in the 
                        United States
                    , the 
                        St. Louis
                     Church Survey, the Indiana Survey of Religious Education, and the Town and Country
                    Church in the 
                        United States
                    . These were published within a few years, making notable contributions in their fields.
                    Further investigations were coordinated with a series of efficiency studies (conducted out of
                    Fosdick's office) of institutions like the YMCA and YWCA, Boy and Girl Scouts, the 
                        New York
                     Public Library, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, institutions to which Rockefeller
                    contributed substantially. Other new studies emerged out of the original concerns of the
                    Interchurch. Among these, the most important was the development of a new type of community survey
                    that would reveal the dynamics of a typical small industrial city rather than simply advance the
                    work of the churches and charitable organizations. This objective also fitted the aims of the
                    Memorial and Fosdick's larger vision, so the small city survey was of wider interest than
                    most Institute projects both to those within the Rockefeller circle and to outside academics who
                    looked eagerly toward this unmatched source of manna for social research.40
            
            The Interchurch officials who had planned for Rockefeller's successor organization late in
                    1920 had insisted on the importance of a new method of survey work that would disclose
                    "possibilities 
                  
                     40 [Galen M. Fisher], The Institute of Social and
                                Religious Research, 1921–1934 [
                                New York
                            , 1934]. The papers of the executive committee and Rockefeller's
                            correspondence with the Institute are in PAMR, but Galen Fisher seems to have destroyed the
                            Institute's administrative papers. At one point during the Middle-town project
                            Fisher asked Lynd to destroy their exchanges, but Lynd refused. Walter Athearn wrote a
                            three-volume study of religious education in Indiana: Walter S. Athearn, E.S. Evenden, W.L.
                            Hanson, and William E. Chalmers, The Religious Education of Protestants in an
                                American Commonwealth [Committee on Social and Religious Surveys, The
                                Indiana Survey of Religious Education, Vol. I] (
                                New York
                            , 1923); Walter S. Athearn, et al., Measurements and Standards in
                                Religious Education, Containing Standards, Score-Cards, Scales and Other Instruments of
                                Measurement Developed for Use in the Indiana Survey of Religious Education
                            [Institute of Social and Religious Research (formerly Committee on Social and Religious
                            Surveys), The Indiana Survey of Religious Education, Vol. II] (
                                New York
                            , 1924); Walter S. Athearn, Religious Education Survey Schedules,
                                Designed for Use in the Indiana Religious Education Survey, Prepared with the Assistance
                                of the Survey Staff and Cooperation Advisory Committees [Institute of Social and
                            Religious Research, The Indiana Survey of Religious Education], Vol. Ill (
                                New York
                            , 1924). Benson Y. Landis, Rural Church Life in the Middle
                            West (
                                New York
                            , 1922), which focused on 
                                Iowa
                             and Indiana, was one of the twelve volumes on the town and country
                        church.
               
                     for cooperative social welfare work in the lumber camps, the
                    harvest fields and other untouched centers of seasonal labor [which] are hardly second to the
                    welfare opportunities among soldiers and sailors in the recent war." They further held that
                    "the community approach is as important in 
                        China
                     as it is in 
                        Ohio
                    ."41 In the fall of 1922, as Ruml shaped his plans for the
                    Memorial, a series of Institute sessions planned the long-contemplated small city survey. As would
                    be the case with the Memorial's extensive support of research by Elton Mayo in industrial
                    relations, the Institute's emphasis in its innovative community study was to be on the
                    "psychological." This would "go deeper and will ultimately be more
                    significant to the churches of the city surveyed and to the religious life of other cities of
                    similar size than would the customary type of objective study."42
            
            The man first considered for the position of project director, William L. Bailey of Northwestern
                    University, agreed, observing that "I am as dissatisfied as anyone with all surveys of the
                    past—including the one [H. Paul] Douglass and I are just now completing." Given
                    Bailey's own admission and the developments within Rockefeller philanthropy, it is not
                    surprising that at a meeting on May 11, 1923, he was suddenly dropped and replaced. What is
                    surprising is that his replacement was—Robert S. Lynd!43
            
            At this meeting Institute of Social and Religious Research advisers affirmed that the intention of
                    the small city study was not to serve the interests of established institutions like the churches
                    and the Y's but to effect "singly and unitedly better adjustments to the people
                    for whom the agencies exist." Robert Lynd, who had good connections with the Memorial
                    staff, especially his old friend, Lawrence Frank, stressed this new approach in a letter to Galen
                    Fisher, the Institute's director, the following month: "The purpose of this survey
                    is to produce not an efficiency survey of the churches…, but rather a new type of survey;
                    an inquiry first and foremost into precisely what is the spiritual life of the community, with
                    especial reference to dynamic aspects, i.e., how do new spiritual impulses arise? What agencies
                    evoke them, 
                  
                     41 A.E. Cory to Rockefeller, August 31, 1920, Group 2, Box 43, PAMR.
                  
                            42
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     43 Galen M. Fisher, "A History of the Small City
                            Study," March 20, 1924, Institute of Social and Religious Research Papers, Box 44,
                                ibid. This work, along with Fisher's "Memorandum
                            Regarding Small City Study #2," April 16, 1924, ibid., provided
                            Fosdick with Fisher's side of his dispute with Lynd over Middle-town, to be
                            discussed below. After the ISRR was terminated in 1934, H. Paul Douglass became the editor
                            of Christendom, the journal of the incipient World Council of Churches.
                            His papers are at Drew University.
               
                     etc.?"44 Lynd was obviously
                    aligned with the thrust of thinking at the pathbreaking Memorial. His background as a theology
                    student and his use of first-hand observation and solid scholarly research in his Elk Basin articles
                    perfectly suited Fosdick's objective of turning the Rockefellers' religious and
                    charitable endowments to use in the development of a new kind of social science. Besides, one can
                    imagine how Lynd's public challenge to Rockefeller would have appealed to the Young Turks
                    at the Memorial!
            After attending Ruml's 
                        Hanover
                     Conference in the summer of 1923, Lynd went further than he had in June, commenting
                    that "the conduct of men is in large part determined by the pressure of the conflicting
                    group habits of their community," which he proposed to study over a time span with a view
                    to "where new things are happening."45 Lynd strongly insisted
                    that his work be completely separated from the immediate practical concerns of the churches. This
                    set him against many on the Institute staff, fitted the thinking of the staff of the Memorial, and
                    served some of Fosdick's aims while conflicting with others.
            At the end of the year, having made preliminary arrangements, the Lynds went to 
                        Muncie
                    . According to Helen Lynd's memoir, their approach was very open: 
                        We had the encouragement of Clark Whistler, the anthropologist, and Larry Frank….
                            We were very much interested in what it would look like for an anthropological technique to
                            be applied to an American city. We were fascinated with whether this would work….
                            Bob's particular contribution was everything. Planning it, thinking up things,
                            imaginatively saying, "Well, if this, then that." He made friends with
                            everybody. Any situation, whether it was Rotary Club or singing in church or meeting with
                            the Sewing Circle, it all worked into the study. Then he would take those things and
                            organize them. … It became very clear that there were two classes in the
                            community, which we called the business and the working classes.46
                  
                     But their style got them into trouble with those in 
                        New York
                     who reviewed their work: 
                        After eight or nine months, the people at the Institute were discontented because they
                            didn't know where the study was going. And neither did we. Something would come up,
                            and that would lead to something else, which wasn't on any chart. That disturbed
                            them a good deal…. Some of the most interesting material came from things that
                            couldn't have been charted in advance…. But the Institute people saw
                            what they thought was a formlessness with no schedule being followed. I think it was true
                            that what we were doing didn't fit into any category. Larry 
                        
                           44 Lynd to Fisher, June 29, 1923, as quoted in Fisher,
                                    "History," 14–16.
                        
                           45 Lynd to Fisher, September 28, 1923, as quoted in ibid., 18–19.
                        
                           46 Helen Merrell Lynd, Possibilities
                                    (Youngstown, 
                                        Ohio
                                    , 1980), 35–36.
                     
                            
                            
                        ROBERT S. LYND, c. 1940
                        Courtesy Ball State University, Public Information Services, 
                                        Muncie
                                    , Indiana.
                     Frank came in and talked to them, and it helped to give Bob the courage to try to
                            explain to them what he was trying to do and why. They decided reluctantly to continue the
                                study.47
                  
                    
                
            The trouble came to a head in the spring of 1924, as revealed in several memoranda written by
                    Institute director Galen Fisher for Fosdick and the board. Lynd had returned to 
                        New York
                     briefly to negotiate a more specific plan for the study, which had to have
                    Fosdick's approval for Lynd to receive further financing. Conflict erupted when Lynd
                    refused to accept clauses inserted in his proposal by the Institute staff which would have tied his
                    work more closely to the churches. At one explosive point Fosdick's dinner at home in
                    Montclair, 
                        New Jersey
                    , was interrupted by several irate phone calls he thought came from Lynd. Upon later
                    hearing Fosdick had told board members that it was he, Lynd vehemently denied having been the
                    caller. What had really happened is unclear, but Lynd won his freedom of action in 
                        Muncie
                    , subject to Institute review.48
            
            The Institute staff continued to criticize Lynd's work, to his irritation, and, when he and
                    his wife completed the manuscript, 
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 37.
                  
                     48 Fisher, "History," 19; idem,
                            "Memorandum."
               
                     the organization balked at printing it. Undoubtedly, the
                    Lynds' insistence that the division between the business class and the working class
                    constituted the fundamental, determinative fact of life in 
                        Muncie
                    —and their profoundly critical attitude toward the business-dominated culture
                    of the city—caused much of the opposition. After all, this was nearly the opposite of
                    what Rockefeller had hoped for in his effort to unite the churches in a social welfare program or
                    what Fosdick sought by developing an empirical, psychologically based science of society. Obviously
                    it did not conform to the pattern of outreach efficiency studies for churches and charitable
                    agencies from which the Institute staff could not break, however significant their contributions in
                    that field.
            Having read early parts of the manuscript, Fosdick warned the Institute that 
                        It certainly is different from anything that I imagined in connection with this study when it
                            was first proposed. It is very "scopey" and its range of ideas and
                            subjects is positively bewildering. I do not know that this is legitimate criticism. It is
                            just possible that this is a work of genius. On the other hand, my impression is that there
                            is greater possibility that Mr. Lynd will not be able, within reasonable time, to bring his
                            ideas down to earth in such a manner as to make their reading understandable.49
                  
                     Fosdick at first assumed that Lynd might take years and by then be out of date, suggesting
                    that the Institute could not finance him indefinitely. Picking one term,
                    "surrogate," which Lynd had used in a general rather than a legal sense, lawyer
                    Fosdick challenged Lynd's whole interpretation of 
                        Muncie
                    : 
                        This single criticism standing by itself, may be, and probably is, unimportant, but it
                            illustrates what seems to be the tendency of the whole study, i.e., looking at the facts of 
                                Muncie
                             not as objective phenomena but as they seem to appear through the medium of
                            predetermined principles and theories which may, or may not be, fully digested. In other
                            words, I get the impression of a confusion of theories and facts—of fragments of
                            reality mixed up with a lot of phraseology which may be scientific—but perhaps
                                not.50
                  
                     In this way Fosdick suggested that Lynd's stress upon class division as the
                    overwhelming reality of 
                        Muncie
                     was merely a figment of the imagination or an import of alien ideology. He did not, on
                    the other hand, object to Elton Mayo's theorizing about the "bitter reflections on
                    [their] work and situation" by workers whose negative thoughts "issue in social as
                    well as industrial 
                  
                     49 Raymond B. Fosdick to Fisher, November 20, 1925, Group 2, Box 44,
                            PAMR.
                  
                            50
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     problems." The Memorial financed Mayo's work
                    at 
                        Harvard
                     in the late 1920s, and it became basic to corporate personnel programs.51
            
            By implying that the established order and its institutions formed the real, hard facts of the city,
                    Fosdick sought to discredit Lynd's work on nonpolitical, "scientific"
                    grounds. Lynd had insisted on the importance of division in society and the class perspective,
                    which, when expressed in cultural forms linking the subjective with the objective, could shape
                    actual behavior observed by social researchers.52 If Lynd's
                    inclinations could not be channeled into the framework of class harmony within capitalist society
                    and its formal if unfulfilled democratic polity, his work apparently had to be jettisoned.
            Lynd, nevertheless, won the endorsement of the liberal academic giants of the
                    period—philosopher John Dewey, sociologist William Ogburn, and economist Wesley Mitchell
                    whose support was necessary for the Social Science Research Council and Fosdick's larger
                    aims for society through Rockefeller philanthropy. At their urging, undoubtedly instigated by Lynd
                    and his friends at the Memorial, the Institute submitted the book to L.C. Marshall, a trusted
                    Rockefeller consultant at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . When he judged it favorably, Fosdick waspishly informed the Institute that, 
                        If your technical staff can keep pretty closely in touch with Lynd, so as to obviate new
                            eccentricities which might develop, I am sure the Trustees will be willing to go ahead with
                            it…. Lynd's inclination is to soar. By all means let him soar, but 
                        
                           51 Elton Mayo to Dr. Herman Feldman of the Committee on
                                    Industrial Relations of the Social Science Research Council, March 30, 1928, Box 53,
                                    Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial Papers. A thorough discussion of the work of Mayo
                                    and his relationship with the Memorial is provided in James P. Mulherin,
                                    "The Sociology of Work and Organizations: Historical Context and Pattern of
                                    Development" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Sociology, University of
                                            
                              California, Berkeley
                           , 1979).
                        
                           52 Despite Jensen's disparaging remark about the
                                    Lynds' "cutesy anthropology" in his article about 
                                        Middletown
                                     (p. 316), a great deal of serious work was being conducted in the 1920s
                                    on the role of society in shaping consciousness. Particularly important was the work
                                    of George Herbert Mead at the Rockefeller-endowed University of 
                                        Chicago
                                    , as well as the neo-Marxist work being done in Europe by George Lukacs,
                                    Antonio Gramsci, and the Frankfurt School, including Theodor Adorno, Wilhelm Reich,
                                    and Herbert Marcuse. As Benjamin Lee Whorf wrote in 1942, "every language
                                    is a vast pattern-system, different from others, in which are culturally ordained
                                    the forms and categories by which the personality not only communicates, but also
                                    analyzes nature, notices or neglects types of relationship and phenomena, channels
                                    his reasoning, and builds the house of his consciousness"; see John B.
                                    Carroll, ed., Language, Thought, and Reality: Selected Writings of
                                        Benjamin Lee Whorf ([
                                        Cambridge
                                    , Mass., and 
                                        New York
                                    ], 1971), 252. Language is, of course, related to material circumstances
                                    and physical tools and to the social relations involved in tool usage. The fact is,
                                    then, that Lynd creatively employed the themes of the intellectual discourse of his
                                    period.
                     
                             he ought to come down occasionally to touch ground so
                            that ordinary human beings, like myself, can know what it is all about.53
                  
                    
                
            Regardless of this lightly veiled hostility at the time, Fosdick praised the study thirty years later
                    in his biography of Rockefeller, in which he used 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     to burnish the billionaire's liberal image. Proudly, he termed the book a
                    "pioneering study" which reflected the "increasingly prominent
                    place" given to "the social background of the church" in the work of the
                    Institute of Social and Religious Research.54 That aspect of the study accorded
                    with Fosdick's own aims; he did not mention the class division the Lynds had stressed,
                    which did not.
            Ultimately, the Institute did not publish 
                  
                            Middletown
                        . As Helen Lynd recalls, its staff thought that no one would. But when
                    publisher Alfred Harcourt saw the manuscript, he immediately wired the Lynds of his eagerness to
                    print it. Two years had passed since its completion. Lynd had used it as his dissertation at 
                        Columbia
                     University, having somewhat artificially separated his own writing from his
                    wife's for that purpose. In these years he had been employed first by the Commonwealth Fund
                    as a researcher and then, interestingly enough, as executive secretary of the Memorial-sponsored
                    Social Science Research Council. Upon its publication in 1929, 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     became an instant sensation, receiving unprecedented front page reviews in both the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times and the Herald-Tribune.
               55 It has
                    remained an illuminating analysis of a typical American industrial city—and of American
                    society—ever since, perhaps because of rather than in spite of 
                        Muncie
                    's Yankee homogeneity, which avoided a confusion of class with ethnic
                    differences. Regardless of methodological refinements in ensuing years, the Lynds'
                    descriptions of American culture still ring true. In recognition of Robert Lynd's
                    achievement, 
                        Columbia
                     appointed him a professor of sociology in 1931.
            This review of the place of Rockefeller philanthropy in the Lynds' study of "
                        Middletown
                    " shows the similarity between in-house criticism at the time and that given
                    recently in this journal by Richard Jensen. Perhaps the account will raise important questions about
                    the kind of social science that has prevailed in America since the 1920s, for Robert Lynd devoted
                    his career to challenging the direction it was being given under large-scale Rockefeller sponsorship
                    in that decade. At first Lynd's "anthropological" approach served the
                    purpose of Raymond B. Fosdick. 
                  
                     53 Raymond B. Fosdick to Fisher, December 31,1925, Group 2 Box 44 PAMR
                  
                     54 Fosdick, Rockefeller, 213.
                  
                     55 Lynd, Possibilities, 39.
               
                     who was then shifting the ample funds of the Laura Spelman
                    Rockefeller Memorial from the support of religious and charitable agencies to the strategic
                    promotion of social science within the overall Rockefeller philanthropic enterprise. Fosdick shared
                    his patron's view that class conflict was the basic threat to civilization's
                    continued progress. But he believed that the solution to the problem lay in developing an empirical
                    science that could control society rather than in the vision of a unifying social service religion
                    that inspired Rockefeller himself.
            With Fosdick's approval, Lynd became the director of a study sponsored by
                    Rockefeller's Institute of Social and Religious Research. This survey of a typical small
                    industrial city was intended to clarify the role of religious and charitable agencies in their
                    community setting. While the Institute's religiously oriented staff criticized
                    Lynd's failure to maintain this focus as the work progressed, what apparently aroused
                    Fosdick's ire was the sociologist's interpretation of the dynamics of social
                    change in "Middle-town." Contrary to Fosdick's and Rockefeller's
                    overriding concern with resolving conflict between classes and maintaining harmonious
                    "cooperation"—Rockefeller's favorite term—Lynd
                    focused his entire study on the gap that separated the life of privileged "nonmanual
                    workers" from that of less favored "manual workers." This division, he
                    and his wife held, provided the key to understanding the social processes of the community. They
                    highlighted the limited value system of the dominant business class and portrayed the distortions in
                    people's lives that resulted from the prevailing power structure. As Helen Lynd commented,
                    "I think one of the best things in the two books was the chapter Bob wrote in 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition on the 
                        Middletown
                     spirit, contrasting the things Middletown said it lived by and the things it did live
                        by."56 This is the kind of awakened self-consciousness humanity
                    needs for personal liberation and common survival, and it is quite different from a purportedly
                    disinterested science of society that, while claiming only to describe things as they are, manages
                    to serve those who control society as it has, unfortunately, come to be.
            The Lynds' study, precisely because it operated on different assumptions from the social
                    science methods advanced by Rockefeller money, suggested a more democratic alternative to those
                    methods. The couple's outlook seems to have been rooted in the 
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 37.
               
                     rural small town values of an earlier era, values implicit in
                    Robert Lynd's "call" to help people as a Protestant minister. This
                    youthful vocation had led him to hold Rockefeller publicly responsible for deplorable living
                    conditions he had witnessed in an oil field of one of Rockefeller's companies. "
                        Middletown
                    ," then, amplified Lynd's earlier protest against the most eminent
                    member of America's business class and the power to afflict the lives of ordinary wage
                    earners that Rockefeller symbolized. In doing so, this pioneering community survey posed the
                    inescapable issue of whose interests are served by the practitioners of social science.
                    Lynd's was a prophetic voice, and despite the celebrity of his (and his wife's)
                    achievement in the 
                        Middletown
                     volumes, it has remained a minority voice crying in the wilderness of Rockefeller-style
                    "empirical" social science of the type advocated in Jensen's article.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Eugene V. Debs: Citizen and Socialist. By Nick Salvatore. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xiv, 437. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
            With every swing of the political pendulum, history, it seems, must be rewritten. When the pendulum
                    is on the left, the radicals are the "good guys"; when it is on the right, the
                    reverse is true. So it should come as no great surprise that in the conservative 1980s, the time has
                    come for Indiana's—and America's—preeminent socialist to
                    take his lumps. The admirers of Eugene V. Debs should not despair, however; on the contrary, they
                    should be grateful that his career has been reevaluated by a thorough, essentially fair-minded
                    scholar who has written an impressive biography. On the whole, Debs emerges from his thumping at the
                    pen of Nick Salvatore looking pretty healthy.
            If the "saintly Debs" ever existed, Salvatore has effectively de-canonized him. The
                    man who led the Socialist party through five presidential campaigns between 1900 and 1920, was, one
                    learns, "vain and eccentric" and badly in need of public approval. The author
                    writes of his frequent visits to brothels and his torrid affair with Mabel Curry, to whose arms he
                    was driven by his cold wife, Kate. Moreover, Debs did not provide the Socialist party with the
                    strong leadership that it needed. At a Socialist convention in 1898, Debs is described as
                    "confused" and "insecure." He frequently refused to confront
                    party leaders with whom he disagreed and often used illness as an escape from his responsibilities.
                    The cumulative effect of this parade of Debs's weaknesses, especially in the early chapters
                    of the book, is to tarnish a once very bright image.
            But if not a saint, Debs is a hard man to condemn totally, and before the book ends Salvatore gives
                    the socialist leader his due. "Whatever his shortcomings as a teacher and political
                    leader," he writes, "large numbers of Americans accorded Debs a position of great
                    importance" (p. 343). This was due partly to the man's personal qualities, partly
                    to his political ideas, "but his importance transcended both, for the critical fact was
                    that for many Americans Debs embodied their experience and their
                    social protest. In this fashion the life of Debs had meaning for his audiences, and it has meaning
                    for the generations since…" (p. 343).
            Perhaps the most important theme in the book is Salvatore's treatment of Debs as
                    "an indigenous American radical" whose socialism never caused him to reject
                    American values. Rather, he "fought to define America's cultural symbols anew in
                    the changed  context wrought by industrial
                    capitalism…. His life was a profound refutation of the belief that critical dissent is
                    somehow un-American or unpatriotic." Debs's support of the class struggle,
                    Salvatore maintains, was "the very fulfillment of the basic democratic promise of American
                    life and the values [of] manhood, duty, and citizenship that sprang from it" (pp.
                    343–44).
            Although a few readers may feel that Salvatore is sometimes harder on Debs than the evidence
                    warrants, objective observers must appreciate the merits of this fine work. It has been thoroughly
                    researched; the documentation is extensive, the bibliography exhaustive. Its treatment of Debs is
                    balanced. Ray Ginger's The Bending Cross, published in 1949, has long
                    been the standard source on Debs, and, while this excellent biography must still be consulted by
                    those interested in Debs and American socialism, it has now been replaced as the primary work on the
                    great socialist leader.
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         State University, East Lansing Harold W. Currie
         
         
            
               A Time of Terror. By James Cameron. (Fairbanks, Alaska: The author, 1980, as From the Inside Out; reprinted, Milwaukee: T/D Publications, 1982. Pp. 228.
                    Paperbound, $6.95.)
            A Time of Terror is a memoir of the first twenty-one years in the life of James
                    Cameron, a black citizen of Indiana. This small book claims special historical interest because its
                    author, when sixteen years of age, found himself in the center of an especially dramatic and brutal
                    double (and almost triple!) lynching in 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, in 1930. There is not a great deal new to be said about the tragedy of
                    lynching, however, and, except for the still unexplained (after 228 pages) sparing of
                    Cameron's life on that hot August evening in 
                        Marion
                    , little that was exceptional emerges from the early career of this black youth.
            Recollections and reminiscences of the ordinary and the everyday are, however, useful social history
                    documents. The lynching information provided here is not really startling and, even with its unusual
                    "victim's-eye-view," is hardly worthy of book-length treatment.
                    Furthermore, the author indulges in considerable and repetitive sermonizing and moralizing on the
                    obvious evils of racism and violence. Still, viewed with a soft focus and as an historical document,
                        A Time of Terror is worthy of study. It is full of the smells, tears,
                    laughter, and routine surroundings common to working-class black Americans during the early decades
                    of the twentieth century. Perhaps the material of  greatest
                    specific interest to scholars is Cameron's lengthy account of prison life during the almost
                    five years he spent in the state prison at Pendleton, Indiana.
            
               Indiana University at 
                            South Bend
                        
                Lester C. Lamon
         
         
            
               The Red Scare in the Midwest, 1945–1955: A State and Local Study. By
                    James Truett Selcraig. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : UMI Research Press, 1982. Pp. xviii, 208. Illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $39.95.)
            The revisionist historians of the 1970s who wrote about the Cold War argued that the domestic Red
                    Scare began at the national level and then spread to the states. The revisionists developed their
                    arguments by pointing to the activities of national leaders. Until now, however, no one has examined
                    state and local activities with the conscious intention of determining whether or not they were
                    simply a reaction to national precedents. In a study of the Red Scare in the Midwest, James Truett
                    Selcraig concludes that the controversy did not originate on the national level. He is unwilling,
                    however, to take the converse position that the Scare originated at the local level. Rather, it was
                    caused "by a series of developments, both intensifying and calming, occurring at the
                    federal, state and local levels" (p. xv).
            Selcraig examines the impact of the Scare on politics, education, and voluntary organizations in five
                    states: 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                  Michigan, Ohio
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . In an attempt to determine the source of anticommunist sentiments, Selcraig takes the
                    reader on an extended tour of local anticommunist controversies. A high school textbook is attacked
                    for its positive view of the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . A professor who openly campaigned for the presidential candidacy of Henry Wallace is
                    dismissed from his teaching position. A state legislature adopts a measure requiring recipients of
                    unemployment compensation to sign a loyalty oath. Scores of such cases are described in considerable
                    detail. Although such a review is necessary in order to determine whether anticommunism originated
                    on the national level, it does not make for good reading.
            With this thorough case study of the Red Scare in one region, historians have better evidence with
                    which to judge the merits of the theory that state and local activities simply derived from national
                    precedents. Selcraig makes a convincing case that there was interaction between national and state
                    levels and that influence did not always flow in one direction. This study fails, however, to the
                    extent to which it ignores the international context.  In the
                    introduction Selcraig states that the Red Scare was "fueled" by the Cold War but
                    "was not caused by these international tensions in any direct way" (p. xi). As a
                    consequence Selcraig does not seize the opportunity to relate specific domestic events to what
                    happened abroad. There is evidence, for example, that the outbreak of the Korean War in 1950
                    affected anticommunist activities in the Midwest. In this instance a historiographical debate about
                    the origins of the Red Scare misses the point if it is limited to domestic events. Although
                    historians always find it difficult to draw connections between events abroad and events at home,
                    Selcraig assumes, without demonstrating, that the connections did not exist.
            
               
                        
                     Oak Park, Illinois
                  
                     Dale R. Sorenson
         
         
            
               Harry S. Truman and the Modern Presidency. By Robert H. Ferrell. (
                        Boston
                    : Little, 
                        Brown
                     and Company, 1983. Pp. viii, 220. Illustrations, note on sources, index. Clothbound,
                    $13.50; paperbound, $5.95.)
            Robert H. Ferrell brings to this terse, beautifully written, and cogently organized brief biography
                    the vast knowledge of the personal and private aspects of Truman's career that has already
                    brought him to national attention with his editing of the thirty-third president's private
                    papers, his "autobiography," and Truman's letters to his good wife and
                    helpmeet, Bess. In addition, Ferrell utilizes most effectively the vast knowledge of recent foreign
                    policy garnered in part in his role as editor of the more recent volumes in the series launched by
                    his Yale mentor, Samuel Flagg Bemis, on American secretaries of state and their diplomacy. This
                    knowledge of foreign policy facilitates his penetrating analysis of the vast changes in American
                    foreign relations that became evident during the Truman presidency. It is in this area, foreign
                    policy, that Ferrell develops the main theme of his biographical study, the over-used and
                    much-abused phrase, the modern American presidency.
            Biographers of Abraham Lincoln, William McKinley, and most twentieth-century American presidents have
                    in one way or another noted their protagonist's role in the development of the modern
                    presidency. Ferrell makes an effective case for Truman's fundamentally shifting the course
                    of American foreign policy from neutrality and even isolation from world affairs to immediate and
                    intimate involvement. The central theme so effectively developed by Samuel Flagg Bemis, focusing on
                    the benefits of neutrality and its breakdown eventually involving the 
                        United States
                     in world  conflicts, irrevocably collapsed under
                    the leadership of Harry S. Truman. And it is this point, Ferrell recognizes, that makes Truman, for
                    better or worse, one of the most significant of American presidents.
            As would be expected, Ferrell is no revisionist. He does not see the Truman era as a long step toward
                    modern American imperialism or the president and his top associates as the dominant perpetrators of
                    the Cold War and its insidious manifestations on the domestic scene. The Truman presidency he
                    discusses is cast in a more heroic mold.
            Though foreign policy is emphasized, Truman's efforts in advancing the relationship of
                    government to the economy and in calling for a more just and equitable social order, goals not
                    achieved during his tenure, receive due attention. So too does Truman's previous
                    experience, most notably his exceedingly difficult campaign in 1940 for reelection to a second term
                    in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, in molding his character and preparing him for the presidency. Biographical
                    material is contained within the first eight chapters. The final three chapters are more analytical.
                    Here Ferrell analyzes Truman's role in the development of the presidency, the elements of
                    his character that helped make him a notable figure, and, most interesting, why most contemporaries
                    misjudged Truman, with his true greatness emerging only in the years after he left the White House.
            This brief, attractive volume will draw a wide audience. It should promote and provoke discussion and
                    argument. Ferrell's main points and ideas are crisply and succinctly stated. His study is
                    easily the best introductory volume on Truman now in print. It also contains the most up-to-date
                    bibliography on the Truman era readily available at the present time.
            
               
                  
                            Iowa
                         State University, Ames Richard Lowitt
         
         
            
               Governor Philip F. La Follette, the 
                            Wisconsin
                         Progressives, and the New Deal. By John E. Miller. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1982. Pp. 229. Illustration, appendix, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $21.00.)
            John E. Miller's study is a worthwhile addition to the numerous works on the La Follette
                    family and Wisconsin Progressivism. Unlike previous biographies and monographs that focused
                    primarily on Robert M. La Follette and his oldest son, Robert, Jr., Miller examines the career of La
                    Follette's youngest son, Philip. The younger La Follette never achieved a national
                    political office, but his career as governor of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and a leader  of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Progressives in the 1930s is an important segment of the political history of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and of the Progressive movement in general.
            Miller begins his study with a brief introductory chapter on Philip La Follette and his family. He
                    follows with seven concise chapters that focus on La Follette's election as governor in
                    1930 and the Depression in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the formation of the Farmer Labor Progressive League in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the unsuccessful battle with the state legislature to pass the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Works Plan, La Follette's relationship and attitude toward Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt and the New Deal, 
                        Wisconsin
                    's "Little New Deal," the formation by La Follette of the
                    National Progressive Party, and the years during and after World War II when he was more or less a
                    political outsider. A main emphasis of Miller's book is La Follette's relationship
                    with Roosevelt and the New Deal. In contrast to those who see La Follette's break with
                    Roosevelt after 1938 as stemming from a radical shift in political philosophy or a tendency for rash
                    and inconsistent action, Miller holds that La Follette was ambivalent toward Roosevelt and the New
                    Deal from the beginning. His break with the president was the result of a "natural
                    evolution" of events and circumstances in conjunction with his own ambitions and
                    assumptions. Although La Follette moved beyond the views of earlier Progressives during the
                    Depression, he was never comfortable with the expanded role of government advanced by the New Deal.
                    This fact, along with personal political motives, seems to have been the key reason for his break
                    with Roosevelt and his desire to organize the National Progressive party in 1938. La Follette is
                    portrayed as a man motivated by both a commitment to Progressive principles and personal ambition,
                    motivations which were interwoven throughout his career.
            In addition to the analysis of the La Follette-Roosevelt relationship, the most important coverage of
                    the book is devoted to Progressivism, particularly 
                        Wisconsin
                     Progressivism and La Follette's impact on the movement. The author does an
                    excellent job of describing La Follette's role in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , as well as the Progressive movement in general. Progressivism faced many challenges
                    during the 1930s, not the least of which was the question of whether to accept the New Deal or to
                    offer a viable alternative program. Miller shows that this question was not easily answered and that
                    many Progressives were more comfortable in opposing the New Deal than in offering their own program.
                    La Follette did, however, move beyond this tendency as governor. During his tenure as governor were
                    passed the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Labor Relations Act, the Budget Act, the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Development Authority, and  the Governmental
                    Reorganization Act. These acts comprised 
                        Wisconsin
                    's "Little New Deal." In addition, La Follette tried
                    unsuccessfully to pass a separate state public works program, an effort which Miller interprets as
                    his most significant and imaginative response to the Depression.
            Miller could have improved his study by providing more analysis of Philip La Follette's
                    early career and his involvement with Progressivism. He begins his treatment with La
                    Follette's candidacy for governor in 1930, and, though it could be assumed that much of his
                    early Progressive thinking was shaped by his family background, it would be helpful to know more
                    about his early political education and the forces shaping it. It might have been helpful, too, to
                    have provided some comparison of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's "Little New Deal" with the programs of other states.
            Still, this is a concise, well-written and -researched study. Miller draws heavily upon primary
                    sources, including Philip La Follette's papers, the La Follette family papers, and numerous
                    manuscript groups at the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, as well as interviews with contemporaries
                    and political aides who shared a close relationship with La Follette and played a major role in his
                    administration and career. This book should prove useful to students and scholars of both the
                    Progressive and New Deal eras, as well as those interested in the history of 
                        Wisconsin
                     or the La Follette family in general.
            
               Indiana University at 
                            South Bend
                        
                Thomas T. Spencer
         
         
            
               Chicago in Story: A Literary History. By Clarence Andrews. (
                        Iowa City
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    : Midwest Heritage Publishing Company, 1982. Pp. 414. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    index. $19.95.)
            This is an immensely informative book, even if less literary history than annotated bibliography. But
                    it is a lively bibliography, concerned with literary, quasi-literary, and nonliterary works about 
                        Chicago
                    . Indeed, what Andrews observes about the titles in his summary of Chapter
                    III—"low in literary values" (p. 37)—applies to most of the
                    titles he has been at pains to include in the book as a whole.
            Andrews attempts to review at least six titles on almost every page; ten to twelve on many a page; on
                    page 226, fourteen titles. He has apparently preferred historical comprehensiveness over selective
                    representation. Still, his comments on the literary titles are not merely sententious but right on
                    target. Cases in point: "The debate over the morality of Sister Carrie
                    was probably settled with [Alfred] Kazin's statement that ‘Dreiser had made
                    possible  a new frankness in the American novel.’ But
                    the debate over Dreiser's style (or lack of one) still goes on" (p. 112).
                    "George Barr McCutcheon's experiment in [realism and] tragedy, The
                        Sherrods (1903), must have chilled the ardor of his fans who were looking to another Graustark" (p. 113). "Undoubtedly the best of the lot of these
                    novels about women in 
                        Chicago
                     is Willa Gather's Lucy Gayheart (1935)…. The plot
                    is slight, but as Howard Mumford Jones said, no one reads Gather for her plots" (p. 242).
            Andrews has also selected some apposite epigraphs for several of his chapters—among them,
                    Carl Sandburg's "Hog butcher for the world" (p. 1); George
                    Horton's "Mrs. O'Leary lit her lamp ‘n the shed" (p.
                    22); Bret Harte's "Queen of the West, by some enchanter taught" (p. 38);
                    H.L. Mencken's "Out in 
                        Chicago
                    , the only genuinely civilized city in the New World" (p. 71); and Nelson
                    Algren's "It isn't hard to love a town for its broad and bending
                    boulevards" (p. 264).
            In the physical center of this book (its rational center is, of course, 
                        Chicago
                     itself) one finds a splendid gallery of photographs, including those of poet and
                    biographer Sandburg; "Sharps and Flats" columnist Eugene Field; novelist Henry
                    Fuller on a bust sculpted by Lorado Taft; short story writer Sherwood Anderson; Harriet Monroe,
                    founder of Poetry; playwright Ben Hecht; and, in a group at Schlogl's
                    Round Table, cartoonist John McCutcheon.
            The book is appropriate for library acquisition, even if literary critics may derogate as trivia most
                    of the pieces discussed. After all, some critics' trivia may turn out to be some
                    historians' pay dirt.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                A.L. Lazarus
         
         
            
               Workers' World: Kinship, Community, and Protest in an Industrial Society,
                        1900–1940. By John Bodnar. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1982. Pp. xvi, 200. Map, notes, illustrations, note on
                    sources, index. $19.50.)
            In the 1970s John Bodnar conducted "more than one thousand" (p. 193) interviews
                    with retired 
                        Pennsylvania
                     industrial workers. Workers' World is a selection of those
                    interviews, together with a series of essays in which he interprets the workers' comments.
                    Sixteen men and nine women describe rather dreary lives and unpromising jobs in the years prior to
                    the Depression, and nine men (including two from the earlier group) recount their often exciting but
                    unexceptional activities as union organizers in the 1930s. Bodnar does not explain why or how he
                    selected these particular accounts from the larger body of interview materials,  but certain features stand out. Most of his workers and organizers were
                    engaged in the coal mining and iron and steel industries. An even higher percentage were first- or
                    second-generation East European immigrants. Of the twenty-six who are identified by ethnicity,
                    eleven are Poles, six are other East Europeans, and three are Italians. The names of most of those
                    who are not identified suggest similar origins. In contrast, only four, including two blacks, are
                    from long-established American families.
            These distinctions may or may not be important, but they are worth noting because of the strong
                    emphasis Bodnar places on the workers' families. He argues that familial ties, and the
                    desire to protect and enhance those ties, were the common denominators of the workers'
                    world. Products of a social milieu in which powerlessness and economic failure were taken for
                    granted, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's industrial employees harbored few material aspirations. Realists and
                    pessimists, they remained passive members of family-centered "enclaves" isolated
                    from society and impervious to the blandishments of bourgeois life. Even in the 1930s, Bodnar
                    argues, they embraced unions merely to win job security and institutional protection for their
                    families.
            Bodnar's approach is intriguing and emphasizes a dimension of working class life that is
                    easy to overlook because it is so obvious, but in this reviewer's opinion does not
                    accurately reflect the interview material. The interviewees emphasize their family associations, as
                    one would expect, but their comments are diverse and often contradictory. One is not impressed with
                    their sense of powerlessness, rejection of material ambition, or "realistic"
                    dismissal of the possibilities of social progress. Bodnar's schema, moreover, rests on an
                    implicit counterfactual comparison. He argues in effect that interviews with farmers, executives, or
                    professionals would reveal less interest in and reliance on family associations. But would they? Or
                    does the oral history format virtually guarantee the types of statements that Bodnar emphasizes?
                    This reviewer's experiences, and those of others, suggest that oral history interviews
                    elicit much information about family relationships and notable events, strikes in particular in the
                    cases of industrial workers, but very little about routine activities such as everyday work
                    associations, machine operations, and technological change. Bodnar's interviews seem to be
                    consistent with this pattern.
            Finally, even if one assumes that this reviewer has missed nuances of the workers'
                    statements that others would find noteworthy and has underestimated the sensitivity of his
                    technique, Bodnar's analysis remains suspect. By selecting East Europeans  employed in industries characterized by low growth rates and
                    old-fashioned managerial methods, he has based his interpretative essays on the careers of
                    individuals who had little chance to succeed in industry and dismal prospects in society at large.
                    The thirty-two workers featured in the volume had far more reason than workers generally to rely on
                    family connections and relationships. Had Bodnar selected a better mix of workers, as well as a
                    better mix of industries, his interpretative statements might be more than the suggestive but
                    unproven hypotheses they remain.
            
               University of Akron, Akron, 
                            Ohio
                        
                Daniel Nelson
         
         
            
               The American Farmer and the New Deal. By Theodore Saloutos. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1982. Pp. xviii, 327. Illustrations, table, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $25.75.)
            
               The American Farmer and the New Deal is an analysis of the farm programs of the
                    administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt. The book's title is slightly misleading in that
                    the bulk of the work consists of an administrative history of the Agriculture Adjustment
                    Administration (AAA), but this in no way detracts from its value as a solid contribution to the
                    field of agricultural history.
            Theodore Saloutos begins his work by recounting the problems of farmers in the 1920s and their lack
                    of success in establishing a comprehensive government farm policy at that time. During the
                    presidential campaign of 1932 this quest was brought to the attention of 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt, the Democratic candidate, who proved to be receptive to the initiatives of
                    such farm leaders as M.L. Wilson and Henry A. Wallace.
            When the New Deal began to take shape in the spring of 1933, one of its centerpieces was the
                    Agricultural Adjustment Act, a complex piece of legislation designed to restore the farmer to his
                    proper place in the American economy. Saloutos very carefully explains how the AAA functioned, its
                    relationship to the Department of Agriculture, its successes and failures and the reasons for them.
                    He analyzes the roles played by leading personalities. Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace
                    appears only on the periphery, but the program was greatly influenced by the work of men like
                    Chester C. Davis, Jerome Frank, and Rexford Tugwell. Social and economic conditions influenced the
                    success of such programs as the domestic allotment plan and the Farm Security Administration, and
                    Saloutos explains that whether or not a program worked or attracted participants was often also
                    affected by such intangibles as race relations, local and rural 
                    traditions, or a farmer's desire to improve the quality of his everyday life.
            The larger difficulties which ultimately threatened the policy's existence and forced
                    drastic changes in its many components stemmed not only from the rulings of the Supreme Court but
                    also from the disgruntlement of farmers who thought other plans would better fill their needs. The
                    debates and criticism that the AAA encountered were often a continuation of the controversy that had
                    raged among farm and government leaders for the previous half century.
            The final chapter of the book offers the author's assessment of the various New Deal
                    programs and emphasizes their importance in laying the groundwork for future decades of American
                    farm policy. In keeping with Saloutos's other works, the entire book is well written,
                    thoroughly researched, and easily read, despite the necessary inclusion of statistics and technical
                    material.
            This work can be characterized as both an ending and a beginning, and it serves well in both
                    instances. The American Farmer and the New Deal was the last scholarly effort of
                    Theodore Saloutos, who died shortly before its publication. It is a fitting capstone for a very
                    substantive and productive career. The book also marks the beginning of the Henry A. Wallace Series
                    on Agricultural History and Rural Studies, a new effort of the 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press. Saloutos's work sets an excellent example of research
                    and scholarship that one hopes will become the hallmark of this collection.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                Rebecca S. Shoemaker
         
         
            
               The Antimasonic Party in the 
                            United States
                        , 1826–1843. By William Preston Vaughn. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1983. Pp. x, 244. Notes, bibliographic note, index. $16.00.)
            This is a solid study of the first third party in American history. Vaughn is to be commended for
                    this workmanlike monograph—the first on Antimasonry in over eighty years.
            The "Blessed Spirit," as Antimasonry was nicknamed, had its origins in an incident
                    known as the Morgan Affair. In 1826 William Morgan, a disaffected 
                        Mason
                     living in western 
                        New York
                    , was planning to write an expose of the Masonic Order's rituals. He was
                    abducted and never seen again. Vaughn concludes that he probably was murdered by Masons. When it
                    became apparent that influential Masons were impeding the investigations into  Morgan's disappearance, a frenzy similar to a religious
                    crusade erupted against Masonry in the "Burned-over District."
            The religious aspect of Antimasonry was transformed quickly into a political party by ambitious young
                    politicians like Thurlow Weed, William H. Seward, and Thaddeus Stevens, whose goal was to drive
                    Masons from political life and ultimately to destroy the secret fraternity altogether. The new party
                    was most successful in states like 
                  New York,
                            Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        Vermont
                    , where the two-party system was weak. It had more difficulty in states such as 
                        Ohio
                    , where the two-party system was strong, or in states where one major party was
                    predominant, as in 
                        New Jersey
                    .
            The Antimasonic party had little attraction for the South, where all reform movements were suspect,
                    or for the West, except in the 
                        Michigan
                     Territory, where it flourished briefly. In Indiana, Vaughn notes that although
                    "a few state legislators had Anti-masonic inclinations and the crusade was reported to have
                    had some influence in eleven counties, Antimasonry in the Hoosier State had an ephemeral
                    existence" (p. 169).
            Antimasonry attempted to assert itself as an independent force in national politics from 1830 to
                    1833, but after William Wirt's disastrous defeat in the presidential election of 1832 the
                    fortunes of the one-issue party declined rapidly. It did manage to survive for a few more years by
                    forming coalitions with either of the two major parties. Ultimately, most Antimasons merged with the
                    Whigs.
            Vaughn examines the rise and fall of the party in exhaustive detail in every state where the
                    "Blessed Spirit" was an active force. One caveat is necessary: those chapters on
                    the movement at the state level are tiresome as one attempts to follow the constantly shifting
                    alliances and Byzantine behavior of obscure politicians. The author manages to chart his way through
                    this maze and show that while Antimasonry was of short duration, it succeeded in destroying Masonry,
                    albeit temporarily, in the North-east.
            Vaughn concludes that Antimasonry's important political contributions were its creation of
                    the presidential national nominating convention and its role in the formation of the Whig party.
            
               Western 
                            Illinois
                         University, Macomb John M. Werner
         
         
         
            
               The Papers of Henry Clay. Volume VII, Secretary of State, January
                        1, 1828-March 4, 1829. Edited by Robert Seager II; associate editor, Richard E. Winslow
                    III; assistant editor, Melba Porter Hay. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1982. Pp. xi, 777. Notes, indexes. $35.00.)
            Following the completion of volume six, Mary W.M. Hargreaves and James F. Hopkins, the original
                    editors of the 
                        Clay
                     papers, retired. The new editors, "with an eye to cost efficiency and with the
                    intention of bringing the project, commenced thirty years ago, to a reasonably early
                    conclusion" (p. vii), made numerous changes in editorial policy.
            They have been more severe than their predecessors in judging items to be "marginal or
                    peripheral to an understanding of 
                        Clay
                    's ideas and activities" (p. vii), and about 1,500 items have been
                    relegated to a "Calendar of Unpublished Letters" at the end of the volume. Each
                    carries a notation regarding its subject matter, however, and copies of the original documents can
                    be seen at the offices of the 
                        Clay
                     Papers Project by interested persons. Most letters received by Clay have been
                    summarized. Fewer footnotes have been used than before. Headings and closures have been omitted.
            It is important to note that this is the first volume to include a combined name and subject index.
                    It also contains a subject index of the first six volumes. The use of this in conjunction with the
                    name indexes in those volumes will make their contents much more readily accessible.
            Covering the last fourteen months of 
                        Clay
                    's tenure as secretary of state, this volume is an important source of
                    information regarding the northeastern boundary dispute with Great Britain, trade with the British
                    West Indies, spoliation claims against 
                        France
                    , relations with the new Latin American republics, and other diplomatic issues of the
                    day. There are also many documents relating to the presidential election of 1828. Among the longest
                    personal entries in the index are those of John Quincy Adams, James Barbour, James Brown, William H.
                    Crawford, John J. Crittenden, Christopher Hughes, Andrew Jackson, William B. Lawrence, Joel R.
                    Poinsett, and Daniel Webster. Students of Indiana history, however, will find little or nothing here
                    which relates directly to their interest.
            Because of the rigorous trimming of non-essential items by the editors, this volume is but little
                    more than half the length of volume six. Because of the judicious manner in which the current staff
                    performed its task, this remains a vital source regarding the life and times of Henry Clay. They are
                    to be commended for  maintaining the high standards of editorial
                    scholarship established by their predecessors.
            
               Indiana Central University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Frederick D. Hill
         
         
            
               Forgotten Founders: Benjamin Franklin, the Iroquois and the Rationale for the
                        American Revolution. By Bruce E. Johansen. (Ipswich, Mass.: Gambit, 1982. Pp. xvii, 167.
                    Notes, bibliography, indexes. $10.95.)
            Bruce E. Johansen counsels historians that if they will abolish ("to some degree")
                    the polarities of "civilized" and "savage" in their
                    interpretation of the formation of modern America, they will discover that "Indian
                    societies were as thoughtfully constructed and historically significant to our present as the
                    Romans, the Greeks, and other Old World peoples" (p. 20). Elsewhere he is less sweeping in
                    his claims for native influence. He wishes merely "to add an indigenous aspect"
                    (p. xvi) or "a few brush strokes" (p. 8) to the picture of American origins.
                    Whatever his intentions, Johansen has plainly failed to abolish the long used and quite erroneous
                    dichotomy, for his conception of native societies fits squarely with the notion of the savage,
                    albeit of the noble sort. Aside from the larger question of how "thoughtfully" any
                    society is constructed, Johansen sees the social orders that obtained among native peoples not as
                    indigenous configurations but rather as a mirror image of the white man's ideals. Native
                    societies were "free of oppression and class stratification" (p. xvi), democratic,
                    and fiercely individualistic. In short, he has bought in its entirety Benjamin Franklin's
                    "Deistical Indians."
            The argument is that 
                        Franklin
                     and Thomas Jefferson were profoundly influenced by their knowledge of the Indians,
                    especially the Iroquois, and that they proceeded, along with the founding generation, to build a new
                    public order in America based on that knowledge. Franklin began the process in the 1750s when he
                    urged the creation of a confederacy modeled on the Iroquois League, and Jefferson brought the
                    process to a culmination in the Declaration of Independence in which the Indian served as a
                    "metaphor for liberty."
            There is, of course, a grain of truth in Johansen's contention, but just a grain. 
                        Franklin
                     and Jefferson were both influenced by the image of the Indian that pervaded
                    eighteenth-century thinking and had, in fact, been characteristic of European and American attitudes
                    from the period of first contacts. The Indian was indeed a "metaphor" for the
                    American perception of liberty; he  did serve the white
                    man's ideological purposes. But it would be a major error, in fact an example of
                    ethnocentrism, to suppose that the white man's mythic conception of the Indian bore any
                    close relationship to the way native people actually lived. The book not only fails to make the
                    critical distinction between image and reality, but it reveals little knowledge of the history of
                    European and American thinking about the native people.
            As for the immediate question of whether 
                        Franklin
                     discovered the idea of Union or political freedom by observing the Iroquois or whether
                    Jefferson took instruction from his Indian neighbors for the writing of the Declaration, the
                    evidence is at best fragmentary, made up of a few fugitive comments that take on meaning only in
                    reference to the long history of primitivistic ideas. In so far as 
                        Franklin
                     and Jefferson drew upon their understanding of native life, they were in fact thinking
                    the way Europeans had long thought about the New World and its native inhabitants. The ideas were
                    European, not Indian.
            
               Forgotten Founders rests on a misconception, draws on limited research, and is
                    written with small attention to the meaning of the sources it does use.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Bernard W. Sheehan
         
         
            
               The Cormany Diaries: A Northern Family in the Civil War. Edited by James C. Mohr
                    and Richard E. Winslow III. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xxvi, 597. Notes, maps, illustrations, index. $29.95.)
            Among published Civil War diaries these are outstanding, probably unique, because they are the
                    parallel records of a married couple. In the late 1850s, while still single, Rachel Bowman and
                    Samuel Cormany began these journals. The diarists were of 
                        Pennsylvania
                        German
                     backgrounds, but Rachel's family had moved to 
                        Canada
                     before her birth while Samuel's had remained in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's Cumberland Valley. The two met at Otterbein University,
                    a United Brethren college at Westerville, 
                        Ohio
                    , and married in the fall of 1860. The outbreak of the Civil War foiled their plan to
                    settle on a farm in 
                        Missouri
                    . Instead they lived for almost two years in what later became 
                        Ontario
                    . In 1862, with their first child, they returned to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and Samuel joined the Union Army, serving till 1865.
            The diaries that each of the Cormanys kept are instructive, and many entries are also interesting.
                    Readers should note carefully, however, that in his old age Samuel recopied his diary, probably
                    doing some revising, and that both husband and wife  evidently
                    expected that the other would read what he or she had written. The editors reproduce the texts
                    verbatim, cleverly presenting alternating sections from each diary. Their editing is generally
                    superb, with a fine introduction and epilogue; ample identifications, including a helpful glossary
                    of relatives; and abundant illustrations. The index is less adequate, and wartime maps are
                    unaccountably omitted.
            The military aspects of the diaries are of some significance. There are graphic descriptions of
                    small-unit cavalry combat in the eastern theater and much more on military administration as Samuel
                    rose from company clerk to regimental adjutant. Because he was interested in hydropathy, he devotes
                    considerable attention to medical matters. The fortuitous presence of Rachel at Chambersburg put her
                    in the midst of invasion, resulting in an unusually varied portrayal of life on the northern home
                    front.
            But social history is the particular strength of the 
                        Germany
                     diaries. Both of them throw light on such predictable topics as evangelical
                    Protestantism, the denominational college, school teaching, and farm life. More unusual is the
                    candid treatment of pious Samuel's struggles with alcohol and sexual temptations.
                    Especially remarkable for diaries of the period are the indications of family planning and a
                    detailed account of childbirth. Rachel's diary is of great value as an expression of the
                    views of a woman educated yet not of the social elite. Taken together the two diaries trace the
                    origin of a marriage and the development of a family amidst the difficulties of America's
                    greatest war. While nothing in this book touches directly on Indiana, many readers of this journal
                    are likely to find its depiction of nineteenth-century history to be both revealing and fascinating.
            
               
                  
                            Kent
                         State University, 
                     Kent, Ohio
                  
                Frank L. Byrne
         
         
            
               Lucy Audubon: A Biography. By Carolyn E. DeLatte. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1982. Pp. xiii, 248. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $15.95.)
            DeLatte's biography of Lucy Bakewell Audubon (1788–1874), wife of famed
                    naturalist John James Audubon, focuses on the most significant years of Lucy's life,
                    1807–1830. During these years the author concentrates on Lucy's early
                    life—her birth in 
                        England
                     and her arrival in the 
                        United States
                    , her courtship and marriage to Audubon, their travels to and settlement on the western
                    frontier, the raising of a family, and the publication of The Birds of America,
                    Audubon's magnificent work.
            
            DeLatte studies John James Audubon and his life's work from Lucy's point of view;
                    therefore, the author has concentrated on Audubon as a husband and father. The reader sees his
                    character, work, and adventures as they affect his wife and family. Lucy's early years were
                    most definitely guided by her husband's ambitions, business ventures, failures, and,
                    finally, successes.
            These years were filled with hardship and difficulty for Lucy. Raised in comfortable English
                    surroundings, Lucy's lifestyle changed after her marriage to Audubon. Due to
                    Audubon's interests, they lived in frontier towns in 
                        Kentucky
                     and later in 
                        Louisiana
                    . When her husband's business ventures failed, Lucy was forced into the role of
                    head of the household—a role she took upon herself so that Audubon could carry on his
                    work. She endured poverty and the humiliation which accompanied it, as well as long separations from
                    her husband. As evidenced by the opening of private schools in 
                        Louisiana
                     to finance her husband's work, Lucy Audubon brought culture to the western
                    towns in which she lived. From her stays in 
                  Henderson, Kentucky
               , and West
                    Feliciana Parish, 
                        Louisiana
                    , the reader gains a picture of what life was like, especially for a woman, in frontier
                    towns in early-nineteenth-century America.
            DeLatte emphasizes Lucy's experiences, feelings, and problems as she coped with life on the
                    rugged frontier. She describes Lucy's often stormy marriage and her relationships with her
                    children and other members of her family, as well as the friends she made. As the author
                    demonstrates, Lucy's role in the production and final publication of her husband's
                    grand work and dream was paramount. As seen in this biography, Lucy was indeed the woman behind the
                    man.
            Readers will find DeLatte's bibliography extensive in both primary and secondary sources and
                    the index extremely helpful. Students of frontier history and women's history, especially,
                    will find this most interesting volume a welcome addition to their reading lists.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Paula Corpuz
         
         
            
               God and General Longstreet: The Lost Cause and the Southern Mind. By Thomas L.
                    Connelly and Barbara L. Bellows. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1982. Pp. 158. Note on sources, index. $12.95.)
            An almost certain sign that the modern South is shedding its traditional personality and peculiar
                    turn of mind is the recent  appearance of books on the subject.
                    There is little of either General Longstreet or God in this book, but there is a considerable amount
                    of astute analysis packed in brief textual space. At the outset one cannot refrain from asking,
                    "what has been the southern mind?" That of the southern writers, of the so-called
                    aristocrats, or of that multitude of southerners buried in the tables of adverse regional
                    educational statistics?
            The really nauseating commercial hoopla over the centennial celebrations of the various incidental
                    anniversaries of the Civil War were seasoned with strong dashes of cash register sales slips.
                    Perhaps it is not too far-fetched to say that Americans never stooped to a trashier display of
                    remembering than in the great creation of Civil War junk. This also applied to publishers who lined
                    library shelves with biographies, monographs, and periodical articles, few of which could truly be
                    considered as of lasting solidity. Connelly and Bellows believe that little or none of this literary
                    output measured up to the standard of Douglas Southall Freeman's classic biography of
                    Robert E. Lee.
            Since the 1870s southerners have produced personal memoirs, novels, and poems and have edited
                    literally hundreds of diaries, letters, and official reports dealing with the South at war. The
                    great volume of these have not dealt with the shortsightedness of a region going to war while
                    hopelessly incapable of sustaining itself in a long and devastating struggle, or with the enormously
                    human and spiritual loss of approximately 300,000 young men, or with the all but incalculable loss
                    of property and momentum in advancing the region beyond its undeveloped frontier conditions.
                    Historians themselves have been caught up in what the authors intriguingly call the "Lost
                    Cause" mentality.
            Well beyond southern borders there looms a national southern mentality of romance and even a
                    fairyland adolescence of imaging a regional gentility firmly seated on a plantation porch in a
                    never-never land. The sales of Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind
                    (with the staggering income from the movie) and of subsequent books and movies are eloquent
                    documentations of this fact. Even the Sun Belt rush brings down a perennial mob of romance hunters.
            Across the Republic business and professional men gather to drink, eat second-rate hotel banquet
                    meals, and hear speakers tell bedtime stories of the war in which blood flows about as virulently as
                    an overturned bottle of ketchup. Questioners often are long on the "ifs" of
                    situations which might have occurred but did not. Maybe it is not entirely unfair to observe that
                    some members of the round tables have never actually read a solid book on the war.
            
            The authors of God and General Longstreet ferret out some nuggets of southern
                    personality differences. They no doubt are historically correct when they discuss the role of
                    folkways and traditions in shaping the regional personality, but in the 1980s these are as
                    perishable as a Morgan City oyster in the face of the leveling impact of American commercialism.
            In all the vast accumulation of things written about the nature of the South and its distinct
                    personal and intellectual characteristics cast in the straitjacket of the lost cause mentality,
                    there seems to this reviewer a central fact which gets dropped through the cracks of the literary
                    floor. The South has ever been caught up in the nitty-gritty harsh realities of its geography and
                    resources. The region's basic material resources contain the germ of change capable of
                    submersion or even obliterating reverential casts of mind and folk mores.
            As provocative as I'll Take My Stand and its authors were in the early
                    1930s, they were in fact singing an elegant requiem for an age and a region which was already
                    sinking fast beneath the onslaught of new forces and new times. The Connelly and Bellows book is a
                    clever and provocative analysis of changing regional memories, mentality, and even folklore. Perhaps
                    the "South" of regional literature has surrendered to that of tourist leaflet
                    authors, Southern Living, and the seductive craft of the graphic arts.
            
               
                  
                            Lexington
                        , Ky. Thomas D. Clark
         
         
            
               Region, Race, and Reconstruction: Essays in Honor of C. Vann Woodward. Edited by
                    J. Morgan Kousser and James M. McPherson. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1982. Pp. xxxvii, 463. Notes, tables, figures. $25.00.)
            On occasion, editors and publishers of festschriften fail to allocate adequate
                    resources or devote requisite care to volumes honoring distinguished senior scholars. No such
                    complaint can be made about this substantial collection of essays paying tribute to the author of
                        The Strange Career of Jim Crow, Reunion and Reaction, and Origins
                        of the New South.
            
            Recognizing that the chief pitfall of many festschriften has been the disparate
                    nature of the contributions, the editors of Region, Race, and Reconstruction have
                    organized their material in a manner that provides a necessary focal cohesion and, in addition,
                    serves to highlight the three major thematic concerns of C. Vann Woodward's work. Since, as
                    Kousser and McPherson note, it is hard to think of an important book or article written on the
                    post-Reconstruction South or on modern American race relations 
                    "which does not repeat, take issue with, flesh out, test on other data, or carry out the
                    implications of some idea… first fully enunciated by Woodward" (p. xvi), it is
                    apparent that the mentor's unseen hand also has played a role in ordering and unifying his
                    students' collective endeavor.
            Woodward's influence is evident in all fifteen essays. Historiographical surveys by Robert
                    Dean Pope and Vincent P. DeSantis reveal his formative role in the writing of southern political
                    biography and in shaping current understandings of the Compromise of 1877. Charles B. Dew's
                    painstaking reconstruction of the life of slave forgeman Sam Williams and William S.
                    McFeely's study of maverick Reconstruction-era Attorney General Amos T. Akerman not only
                    reflect Woodward's interest in biography but also speak of a shared concern for rescuing
                    the experiences of the obscure and inarticulate from historical oblivion.
            Woodward's mastery of the ironic technique has been conveyed to former students Bertram Wyatt-
                        Brown
                    , Steven Hahn, and Thomas C. Holt and is evidenced in their accounts of 
                        Mississippi
                     lawyer Henry Hughes's attempt to "modernize" proslavery
                    thought; of upcountry Georgians' hostility to the elimination of common grazing rights
                    during the 1880s; and of "the problem of freedom" in former slave societies. In
                    like manner, Lawrence N. Powell's fresh look at the carpetbaggers, J. Mills
                    Thornton's reconsideration of Radical Republican tax policy as a source of agrarian
                    discontent, and Barbara J. Fields's critique of the concept of race as a "central
                    theme" for interpreting southern history partake of Woodward's healthy respect for
                    well-considered revisionism. Still other essays mirror the Yale historian's interest in
                    tracing changes in ideology and belief over time. Daniel T. Rodgers's study of Howard W.
                    Odum's conceptions of regionalism and folk sociology; Tilden G. Edelstein's review
                    of the ever-shifting portrayal of Shakespeare's Othello; Louis R. Harlan's
                    description of the developing relationship between Booker T. Washington and Jewish Americans; and
                    Robert Engs's evaluation of the institutional and ideological forces shaping Native
                    American education at Hampton Institute show that Woodward's students have become capable
                    practitioners of this aspect of the historian's craft.
            Valuable studies in themselves, these essays, along with Louis P. Masur's thirteen-page
                    bibliography of Woodward's published writings, highlight the significant influence that a
                    skillful interpreter can have on the conceptualization and understanding of American history. Even
                    Willie Lee Rose's popular culture study, "Race and Region in American Historical
                    Fiction," forges a connecting link between Woodward's characterization of Tom
                    Watson  and similar tendencies in the life of Watson's
                    Georgian contemporary, novelist Thomas Dixon. Region, Race, and Reconstruction is
                    a well-executed tribute to a major figure in modern southern historiography.
            
               University of 
                     Wisconsin,
                                Madison
                  
                William L. Van
                Deburg
         
         
            
               Mill and Town in 
                            South Carolina
                        , 1880–1920. By David L. Carlton. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1982. Pp. xii, 313. End maps, notes, tables, map, appendix,
                    essay on sources, index. Clothbound, $32.50; paperbound, $14.95.)
            This study centers on the social attitudes that accompanied cotton mill industrialization in 
                        South Carolina
                    . The mill towns of twenty-one upland counties provide the locale. The author explores
                    the origins of the industrial impulse, its progress, and some of its social and political results.
                    From industrialization emerged two new social classes: the "town people," who
                    expected to control and benefit from the new source of wealth, and the "mill
                    people," those who provided the labor. The conflicts between them generate the
                    story's drama.
            The interpretive axis revolves around an understanding of progressivism. Although the "town
                    people" helped to call the mills into existence, they came to fear the "mill
                    people" as a source of "anarchy" and a threat to their dominance of local
                    society. Their "progressivism" consisted of an attempt to impose acceptable,
                    effective methods of social control on the unruly operatives. The two devices that harmonized the
                    principles of the "town people" and their desire for power were the abolition of
                    child labor and the imposition of compulsory education. In other words, they launched an attack on
                    the mill family designed to break the connections between generations and transform the young into
                    the virtuous and obedient labor force of their dreams. The mill people, struggling to avoid a fate
                    as victims of a dehumanizing paternalism, raised an iconoclastic howl in support of a scourge of the
                    respectable, Governor Cole L. Blease. Ultimately the forces of progressive modernity won a partial
                    victory. Children were taken out of the mills and placed in schools. Blease came to terms with the
                    establishment. The New Deal and midcentury affluence nibbled away at the cohesion and the
                    resentments of the mill people, but, never reconciled to modernity, they subsided into
                    "apathy and a passive dislike of a social order over which they have little
                    control… acquiescent but not quite willing participants in a world not of their
                    making" (p. 272).
            
            A well-wrought, deeply researched chain of argument binds together the many strands of this story.
                    Not surprisingly in a study of social attitudes, newspaper editorials and letters to the editor
                    supply the bulk of the evidence, but the author has incorporated personal correspondence, business
                    records, legislative debates, and voting patterns where they throw light on the subject.
                    Conspicuously and perhaps inevitably missing is direct testimony from the mill hands themselves.
                    They rarely emerge from the shadows cast by the rhetorical outbursts of foe and friend.
                    Carlton's book provides, once again, testimony to the sophistication and penetration of
                    southern historical studies.
            
               Oakland University, 
                            Rochester
                        , Mich. John Barnard
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Handbook of American Folklore. Edited by Richard M. Dorson. Inta Gale Carpenter,
                    associate editor. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1983. Pp. xix, 584. Notes, illustrations, figures,
                    bibliography, index. $35.00.)
            
               Man and Beast in American Comic Legend. By Richard M. Dorson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1982. Pp. xix, 184. Illustrations, notes.
                    $20.00.)
            These two posthumous volumes are the last books by noted folklorist Richard M. Dorson. Handbook of American Folklore is a collection of over sixty essays arranged in four
                    sections ("Topics of Research," "Interpretation of Research,"
                    "Methods of Research," and "Presentation of Research"), with
                    each section including an introduction by Dorson. W. Edson Richmond's introduction to the
                    volume surveys the history of folklore studies. Man and Beast in American Comic
                    Legend is an enjoyable assemblage of humorous folk legends. Ten "fearsome
                    critters" are discussed in the first part of the book, while the second includes tales by
                    eight American raconteurs. An introduction by Alan Dundes recounts Dorson's distinguished
                    career, and in the afterword Jeff Dorson provides a fond recollection of his father. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Abe Lincoln Laughing: Humorous Anecdotes from Original Sources by and about Abraham
                        Lincoln. Edited by P.M. Zall. (
                        Berkeley
                    : University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1982. Pp. xii, 193. Frontispiece, notes, sources, indexes. $15.95.)
                    One of the anecdotes in P.M. Zall's Abe Lincoln Laughing tells of two 
                        Quaker
                     ladies discussing the probable outcome of the Civil War. The first opined that the
                    South would win "Because Jefferson [Davis] is a praying man." To the
                    other's response that 
                        Lincoln
                     also was a praying man, the first had a ready reply: "Yes, but the Lord will
                    think Abraham is joking" (p. 151). Of all American presidents, 
                        Lincoln
                     must be the one best known for his sense of humor. In this volume Zall presents over
                    three hundred humorous stories, collected from a wide variety of sources, in which 
                        Lincoln
                     figures as storyteller or subject; sources also are provided for the anecdotes. The
                    volume should appeal both to those with a particular interest in 
                        Lincoln
                     and to those who simply enjoy a good story. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                  
                            Carroll County
                        , Indiana, Rural Organizations, 1828–1979. Volume I, History. By John C. and Doris M. Peterson. (
                        Delphi
                    , Ind.: The authors, 1980. Pp. xii, 389. Bibliography, maps, illustrations,  indexes. $25.00.) This volume presents comprehensive
                    histories of a broad range of rural organizations in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana. Such major groups as the Grange and the Farm Bureau merit entire chapters;
                    smaller organizations are discussed together in the final chapter. Also included is general
                    information on the county and a brief survey of its history. A projected second volume is to include
                    biographical sketches of people who have been active in the county's rural organizations
                    over the years. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
            
               Correction: The caption for the Ball brothers' photograph that appeared in
                    the September, 1983, issue on page 258 is incorrect due to a printer's error. For correct
                    identification please note that the brothers are listed from right to left instead of left to
                right.
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS IN HISTORY
            Two Grants of $3,500 each for the
            1984–1985 Academic Year
            Purpose: To encourage research which will contribute to an understanding of the history of Indiana or
                    of Indiana and the region to which it is traditionally a part, the Old Northwest and Midwest.
            Eligibility: Applicants must be enrolled in a program in an accredited institution and have completed
                    all course work and met all requirements for the doctoral degree except the research and writing of
                    the dissertation. The dissertation subject must reflect the purpose of the grant and be approved by
                    the graduate committee of the institution.
            Application: Application forms may be obtained from the office of the Indiana Historical Society at
                    the address given below. Applicants must provide three letters of recommendation including one from
                    the chairman of the applicant's major department and one from the dissertation director.
                    Documents required in supplor are a transcript of graduate credits and a dissertation prospectus.
            Awards: Winners will receive grants of $3,500 to be used for expenses connected with their
                    dissertations. One half of the grant ($1,750) will be paid September 1, 1984; one fourth
                    ($875), December 1, 1984; and one fourth upon acceptance of the completed dissertation by
                    the graduate committee.
            Deadlines:
                  
                     For receipt of applications
                     March 15, 1984
                  
                  
                     Announcements of awards
                     May 15, 1984
                  
               For further information and applications write:
            Gayle Thornbrough Executvie Secretary Indiana Historical Society 315
                    West Ohio Street Indianapolis, Indiana 46202
            
                    Applications due by March 15, 1984
                
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
