
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 56, Issue 3, pages 195-272. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:56+issue:3+year:1960&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Civilizing the Indians of the Old Northwest, 1800-1810
            
                    Joseph A. Parsons, Jr.
                    ∗
                
            A neglected facet of the history of the settlement of the Old Northwest before the War of 1812
                    concerns the effort to establish a program of educating and civilizing the Indians. Unfortunately,
                    some historians have accepted the "unofficial, & private" letter of
                    February 27, 1803, from Thomas Jefferson to William Henry Harrison as proof that any attempt to
                    civilize the Indians was for the purpose of cheating them out of their lands. Because of its
                    importance to later interpretations of Jefferson's (and Harrison's) Indian policy,
                    the bulk of the President's letter bears repeating here: 
                  
                     
                        this letter being unofficial, & private, I may with safety give you a more
                                    extensive view of our policy respecting the Indians, that you may the better
                                    comprehend the parts dealt out to you in detail through the official channel, and
                                    observing the system of which they make a part, conduct yourself in unison with it
                                    in cases where you are obliged to act without instruction. our system is to live in
                                    perpetual peace with the Indians, to cultivate an affectionate attachment from them,
                                    by every thing just & liberal which we can [do] for them within the bounds
                                    of reason, and by giving them effectual protection against wrongs from our own
                                    people. the decrease of game rendering their subsistence by hunting insufficient, we
                                    wish to draw them to agriculture, to spinning & weaving. the latter branchea
                                    they take up with great readiness, because they fall to the women, who gain by
                                    quitting the labours of the field for these which are exercised within doors. when
                                    they withdraw themselves to the culture of a small piece of land, they will percieve
                                    how useless to them are their extensive forests, and will be willing to 
                              
                                 ∗ Joseph A. Parsons, Jr., is assistant
                                            professor of history at Lamar State College of Technology, 
                                                Beaumont
                                            , 
                                                Texas
                                            . This article is a revision of a seminar paper written under
                                            the direction of Professor John D. Barnhart, Department of History, Indiana
                                            University, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                     pare them off from time to time in exchange for
                                    necessaries for their farms & families. to promote this disposition to
                                    exchange lands, which they have to spare & we want, for necessaries, which
                                    we have to spare & they want, we shall push our trading houses, and be glad
                                    to see the good & influential individuals among them run in debt, because we
                                    observe that when these debts get beyond what the individuals can pay, they become
                                    willing to lop th[em off] by a cession of lands. at our trading houses too we mean
                                    to sell so low as merely to repay us cost and charges so as neither to lessen or
                                    enlarge our capital. this is what private traders cannot do, for they must gain;
                                    they will consequently retire from the the competition, & we shall thus get
                                    clear of this pest without giving offence or umbrage to the Indians in this way our
                                    settlements will gradually circumscribe & approach the Indians, &
                                    they will in time either incorporate with us as citizens of the US. or remove beyond
                                    the Missisipi. the former is certainly the termination of their history most happy
                                    for themselves, but in the whole course of this, it is essential to cultivate their
                                    love. as to their fear, we presume that our strength & their weakness is now
                                    so visible that they must see we have only to shut our hand to crush them, &
                                    that all our liberalities to them proceed from motives of pure humanity only. should
                                    any tribe be fool-hardy enough to take up the hatchet a[t] any time, the siezing the
                                    whole country of that tribe & driving them across the Missisipi, as the only
                                    condition of peace, would be an example to others, and a furtherance of our final
                                    consolidation.
                        I must repeat that this letter is to be considered as private &
                                    friendly…. you will also percieve how sacredly it must be kept within
                                    [your] own breast, and especially how improper to be understood by the Indians. [In]
                                    their interests & their tranquility it is best they should see only the
                                    present [page] of their history.1
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Henry Adams in particular used this letter as proof of Jefferson's perfidy in treating with
                    the Indians. To Adams the tactics suggested by Jefferson would have shocked Jefferson himself as
                    "a method of obtaining the neighboring estate of any Virginia family"; but
                    according to Adams, President Jefferson "not only suggested but vigorously carried out the
                    system toward the Indians."2
            
            
               
                  1 President Jefferson to Governor Harrison, February 27, 1803, Clarence E.
                        Carter (ed.), The Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , Vol. VII, The Territory of Indiana, 1800-1810 (
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1939), 90-92.
               
                  2 Henry Adams, History of the 
                                United States
                             of America (9 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1909-1911), VI, 75.
            
            
            Adams, however, was not an impartial observer and seems to have interpreted Jefferson's
                    statements in the worst possible light. It may be true that Jefferson had the acquisition of the
                    Indian's lands as his goal, but he planned to be "just and liberal." He
                    believed the "decrease of game" would soon render these vast lands
                    "useless" to the Indian. "Motives of pure humanity" required
                    that the Indian be aided in adjusting to a new life.
            Furthermore, Jefferson was not the first to advocate a program of this type. Even long-established
                    missions, colleges, and private programs to elevate the Indian had been designed largely to make him
                    a member of American society, to promote peace, etc.3 Henry Knox, shortly after
                    becoming the first secretary of war, penned a long recommendation to President Washington that the
                    American people impart their "knowledge of cultivation and the arts to the aboriginals of
                    the country." He recognized difficulties in such a proposal and realized that it would take
                    a long time to carry it out, but to admit that it was impractical or impossible contradicted that
                    favorite eighteenth-century doctrine of the perfectibility of man. The first step would be to
                    "introduce among the Indian tribes a love for exclusive property." Knox believed
                    that it would also be wise to provide the Indians with domestic animals, make presents of medals,
                    gorgets, uniforms, etc., in imitation of the British, and to send missionaries with implements of
                    husbandry. The Secretary of War believed that his plan would serve to attach the Indians to the 
                        United States
                     and, when "compared with a system of coercion, it would be found the highest
                    economy to adopt it."4
            
            
               
                        Washington
                    , in instructions to commissioners negotiating with the Creeks in 1789, had written that
                    they should arrange for missionaries to reside among the Indians in order to teach them
                    "the great duties of religion and morality, and to inculcate a friendship and attachment to
                    the 
                        United States
                    ."" In the original treaty (which was not acceptable to the 
                  
                     3 For a review of these, see Evelyn Adams, American
                                Indian Education (Morningside Heights, N.Y., 1946), 6-28.
                  
                     4 Secretary of War to President Washington, July 7, 1789, U.S.,
                            Congress, American State Papers, Indian Affairs (2 vols., 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1832-1834), I, 53-54.
                  
                     5 President Washington to Benjamin Lincoln, Cyrus Griffin, and David
                            Humphreys, August 29, 1789, ibid., 66.
               
                     Senate) this stipulation was not included,6
                    but in 1790 it was provided: 
                        That the Creek nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization, and to become herdsmen
                            and cultivators, instead of remaining in a state of hunters, the 
                                United States
                             will, from time to time, furnish gratuitously the said nation with useful
                            domestic animals, and implements of husbandry.7
                  
                    
                
            Not only were representatives of the federal government eager to embark on a program of civilizing
                    the Indians, but many of the Indians themselves were in accord with it. In 1791, 
                        Washington
                     wrote to Cornplanter, Half-town, and Big Tree, chiefs of the Seneca, promising that he
                    would find the means of teaching them if it were agreeable to their nation. They answered by saying:
                        
                        Father: You give us leave to speak our minds concerning the tilling of the ground. We ask you
                            to teach us to plough and to grind corn; to assist us in building saw mills, and supply us
                            with broad axes, saws, augers, and other tools, so as that we may make our houses more
                            comfortable and more durable; that you will send smiths among us, and, above all, that you
                            will teach our children to read and write, and our women to spin and to weave.8
                  
                    Knox promised the Indians that the President would send two men to teach them to raise corn
                    and suggested it would be better to send a schoolmaster to the Indians than to take the Indians from
                    their homes.9
            
            Though the program of teaching the Indians was advanced during the next few years, not all Indians
                    were in favor of it. At the Treaty of Colerain in 1796, Cusettah Mico, a Creek, stated: 
                        That the Indians, when educated, turned out very worthless; became mischievous and
                            troublesome, and involve the red and white people in difficulties. That they had many
                            melancholy examples of this sort, without an exception.10
                  
                    
                
            At this time, American commissioners argued that such unfortunate results would not occur under the
                    new plan, for the 
                  
                     6 Draft of proposed treaty with Creek Indians, ibid., 73.
                  
                     7 Treaty with Creek Indians, August 7, 1790, ibid.,
                            81-82.
                  
                     8 Cornplanter, Half-Town, and Big Tree to President Washington,
                            January 10, 1791, ibid., 209.
                  
                     9 Secretary of War to Cornplanter, Half-Town, and Big Tree, January
                            19, 1791, ibid., 145.
                  
                     10 Message of American Commissioners to Creek Indians, June 23, 1796,
                                ibid., 602.
               
                     boys would be at home under the supervision of their parents
                    and would not come in contact with bad white people as was supposedly the case when they were sent
                    away to school. In the end, the Creek asked for "hoes, saws, drawing-knives, and such
                    things" but would not allow the establishment of schools.11
            
            Among the Creek and Cherokee much was achieved in the next few years. Jefferson, in his message to
                    Congress on December 8, 1801, reported that the Creek were "acquiring cattle, by every
                    means in their power," and were raising grains and fruits. Indian manufactures were
                    increasing. Instructors in spinning and weaving had set up nine looms, one hundred pairs of cotton
                    cards, and eighty spinning wheels. Jefferson noted some remarkable individual achievements. Three
                    Indian women had clothed a family for two years and had also raised hogs and cattle. One chief had
                    built a loom and two spinning wheels. The production of oil from hickory nuts had grown from a few
                    quarts in 1797 to three hundred gallons, and the oil drew a good price at Mobile and 
                        New Orleans
                    .12
            
            By the time Jefferson became president, the government had established a precedent of educating and
                    civilizing the Indians where possible. The basic purpose was to teach the women spinning and
                    weaving, the men stock raising and agriculture. The Indian agents were in charge of civilizing their
                    individual tribes or nations and received aid from missionaries, blacksmiths, interpreters, and
                    special assistants. The best statement of this policy is found in the instructions from Secretary of
                    War Henry Dearborn to Return Jonathan Meigs, Indian agent to the Cherokee Nation, dated May 16,
                    1801: 
                        It has been a principal object of the Government of the 
                                United States
                             to introduce among their Indian Allies useful arts, to teach them industry, and
                            prove to them it's value experimentally by facilitating the attainment of articles
                            considered to be of comfort and convenience in civilized life, and to this end the labours
                            of your predecessors have been directed in instructing the women of the Cherokee Nation in
                            the arts of spinning and weaving, and in introducing among the men a taste for agriculture
                            and raising of stock: in all of these, 
                        
                           11
                                    Ibid., 602, 608.
                        
                           12 Message of President Jefferson to Congress, December 8,
                                    1801, ibid., 647.
                     
                             their success has justified a continuance in the same
                            plan, and it is therefore desirable that the same course may be pursued.
                        To effect the first, a kind of school was opened, within the nation for teaching the women
                            and girls to spin and weave: and Wheels, Cotton Cards and other necessary apparatus for the
                            manufacture of linen and cotton clothing furnished them: the latter were advanced by
                            supplies of implements of agriculture, sheep and cattle to improve the breeds of those
                            animals, and encouraging a fair and honest traffic for their superfluities of all kinds with
                            the Whites, by preserving peace, regularity and sobriety among the Traders, and protecting
                            the Indians from fraud and imposition.13
                  
                    
                
            Missionaries sent among the Indians were encouraged to "instruct them … in the
                    principles of Christianity as well as in useful arts…."14 In
                    a letter to the 
                        Quaker
                    , Henry Drinker, Dearborn wrote: 
                  
                     
                        Every good person must feel grateful for the exertions, made by your society, towards
                                    civilizing the Indian Tribes, by the introduction among them of the arts and a taste
                                    for agriculture, and it is ardently to be hoped, that by a steady and persevering
                                    application of the means provided by the Government of the 
                                        United States
                                    , powerfully aided by the constant exertions of your society, the savage
                                    tribes will ultimately form a useful part of the great family of the 
                                        United States
                                    .15
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Farm implements, animals, and tools of various kinds were distributed among the Indians, and they
                    were taught how to use them. The typical method used was to deliver a few plows, cows, oxen, cards
                    and wheels, etc. to such chiefs as could be trusted to use them.16
            
            No Indian nation put the opportunity for advancing themselves to better use than did the Cherokee. By
                    1806, they were used by the government as an example to other Indians. 
                  
                     13 Secretary of War to Return J. Meigs, May 15, 1801, U.S., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book A, 44-45.
                            The letter book cited here and Letter Books B and C cited further on are microfilm copies of
                            the original letter books in the National Archives, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                             These microfilms are at the Great
                                Lakes—Ohio Valley Research Project, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind.
                  
                     14 Secretary of War to all whom these present shall come, December 9,
                            1800, ibid., 5.
                  
                     15 Secretary of War to Henry Drinker, May 22, 1801, ibid., 50-51. Secretary of War to William Findley, February 25, 1802, ibid., 170.
                  
                     16 Secretary of War to 
                                Israel
                             Chapin, March 1, 1802, ibid., 173.
               
                     Addressing a delegation of Fox, Sac, and Potawatomi, Jefferson
                    said: 
                        Look at your brethren in the South—They have been for some time following my
                            advice, they have left off wars, they are increasing in their numbers, are learning to
                            clothe and provide for their families as we do, and you see the proof of it in such of them
                            as you happened to find here.17
                  
                    The same speech was often repeated to northern and western Indian visitors to the
                        Capitol.18 Jefferson praised the Cherokee for the advances they had made
                    and, at the same time, granted one thousand dollars to Double Head, a Cherokee chieftain,
                    "in consideration of his active influence … in the introduction of the arts of
                    civilization among the Cherokee Nation Indians, … and for the purpose of enabling him to
                    extend his useful example among the Red people."19 By 1810, some of the
                    Cherokee were owners of plantations with hundreds of head of livestock and even Negro slaves.
            The Creek, Choctaw, and various other southern Indians made similar, though less spectacular,
                    advances. These groups became exceedingly proud of their home-manufactured blankets and other
                    products. The Secretary of War and the President were certain that but a few more years would prove
                    the value of their plans for civilizing the Indians.20 Most of the southern
                    tribes were receiving several hundreds of dollars worth of plows, axes, hoes, augers, hand saws,
                    cotton cards, scythes, sickles, bar iron, dyes, etc. in lieu of cash annuities.21 The annual expenditure for instruction in spinning and weaving among the Creek Nation
                    exceeded five hundred dollars annually before 1810, but it was hoped the amount could be reduced as
                    the Indians progressed and the cost of instruction diminished.22
            
            
               
                  17 President Jefferson to Fox, Sac, and Potawatomi, January, 1806, U.S.,
                        War Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book B,
                        143-144.
               
                  18 President Jefferson to Osage, 
                            Missouri
                        , Kansa, Oto, Pani, Ayowa, and Sioux, January 4, 1806, ibid., 145.
               
                  19 Secretary of War to Return J. Meigs, January 8, 1806, ibid., 153. President Jefferson to Cherokee, January 10, 1806, ibid., 147-148.
               
                  20 Secretary of War to Benjamin Hawkins, May 9, 1808, ibid., 377. Secretary of War to Silas Dinsmoor, October 23, 1810, ibid.,
                        Letter Book C, 51.
               
                  21 Secretary of War to Tench Coxe, February 13, 1810, ibid., 15. Secretary of War to Governor Hull, January 16, 1810, ibid.,
                        13-14. Accounts of these dates appear to be the only extant record of actual cash expenditures
                        for all items.
               
                  22 Secretary of War to Benjamin Hawkins, May 16, 1810, ibid., 27.
            
            
            Meanwhile, the policy of civilizing the Indians was applied to the tribes of the Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     territories, and in much the same manner. Secretary of War Henry Knox sent a message to
                    all tribes north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and south of the Great Lakes on April 4, 1792, in which he
                    stated: 
                        We should be greatly gratified with the opportunity of imparting to you all the blessings of
                            civilized life, of teaching you to cultivate the earth, and raise corn; to raise oxen,
                            sheep, and other domestic animals; to build comfortable houses, and to educate your
                            children, so as ever to dwell upon the land.23
                  
                    Instructions sent to William Lyman, temporary agent in the Northwestern and Indiana
                    territories on September 6, 1801, were duplicates of those to Return J. Meigs, Cherokee agent, which
                    were previously quoted.24
            
            Two months earlier Governor Harrison had written Secretary of War 
                        Dearborn
                    : 
                  
                     
                        Whether some thing ought not to be done to prevent the reproach which will attach to
                                    the American Character by the exterpation of so many human beings, I beg leave most
                                    respectfuly to submit to the consideration of the President- That this exterpation
                                    will happen no one can doubt who knows the astonishing annual decrease of these
                                    unhappy beings. The Delawares are now making an other attempt to become
                                    agriculturists—they are forming settlements upon the White
                                        river a branch of the 
                                        Wabash
                                     under the conduct of two Missionaries of the Society of "The
                                    United Brethren for propogating the gospel amongst the Heathens" otherwise
                                    Meravians. To assist them in this plan the Chiefs desire that one half of their next
                                    annuity may be laid out in impliments of agriculture, and in the purchase of some
                                    domestic animals as Cows and Hogs. The Kaskaskeas & Peankashaws request the
                                    same thing and the Patawatimies wish a few come hoes may be sent with their
                                        goods.25
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            To a conference with Little Turtle in February, 1802, 
                        Dearborn
                     sent the promise of plows and hoes, of a blacksmith 
                  
                     23 Secretary of War to all tribes north of 
                                Ohio
                            , east of 
                                Mississippi
                            , south of lakes, April 4, 1792, American State Papers, Indian
                                Affairs, I, 230.
                  
                     24 Secretary of War to William Lyman, September 6, 1801, US., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book A, 92.
                  
                     25 Governor Harrison to Secretary of War, July 15, 1801, Logan Esarey
                            (ed.), Governors Messages and Letters (3 vols., Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vols. VII, IX, XII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922-1924), I, 29-30.
               
                     to mend their axes, hoes, and guns, and to train younger
                    Indians in the trade, and of a trading house in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .26 Little Turtle answered requesting plows and tools for those who
                    would use them, and he promised that the Indians would strive "to introduce husbandry among
                    their children…." He added, however, "nothing can be done to advantage
                    unless the great Council of the Sixteen fires now assembled, will prohibit any person from selling
                    any Spiritous Liquors among their Red Brothers." Little Turtle stated that there had been
                    several talks with the Quakers who had promised to introduce husbandry but nothing had, as yet, been
                        done.27
            
            A short time later, Jefferson wrote the 
                        Miami
                    , Potawatomi, and Wea: 
                  
                     
                        We shall with great pleasure see your people become disposed to cultivate the earth,
                                    to raise heards [sic] of the useful animals and to spin and weave,
                                    for their food and clothing, these resources are certain, they will never disappoint
                                    you, while those of hunting may fail, and expose your women and children to the
                                    miseries of hunger and cold, we will with pleasure furnish you with implements for
                                    the most necessary arts, and with persons who may instruct how to make and use
                                        them.28
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            On February 23, Jefferson sent instructions to Governor William C. C. Claiborne, of 
                        Mississippi
                    , Governor William Henry Harrison, of Indiana, and Governor Arthur St. Clair, of 
                        Ohio
                    , making them responsible for the gradual introduction of the "arts of
                    husbandry and domestic manufactories" among the Indians of the areas under their
                    administration. The governors were to superintend all business relating to the Indians and to
                    inspect, advise, and instruct sub-agents in their dealings with the Indians. The President promised
                    all the assistance within his power.29
            
            He wrote a separate letter to Harrison on the same day saying he intended to use every means in his
                    power to introduce agricultural and domestic arts among the Indians and especially among those with
                    whom intercourse was easiest. 
                  
                     26 Conference with Little Turtle and other Indian Chiefs, February 7,
                            1802, U.S., War Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs,
                            Letter Book A, 136.
                  
                     27 Little Turtle to American Commissioners, January 4, 1802, ibid., 141.
                  
                     28 President Jefferson to 
                                Miami
                            , Potawatomi, and Wea, January 7, 1802. ibid., 143.
                  
                     29 Secretary of War to Governors Wm. C. C. Claiborne, William H.
                            Harrison, Arthur St. Clair, February 23, 1802, ibid., 166.
               
                     He hoped to receive great assistance from the governors in
                    carrying his benevolent intentions into effect.30
            
            At 
                        Vincennes
                     that August, Harrison addressed the 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Kickapoo, Wea, Eel River
                    
                        Miami
                    , Piankashaw, and Potawatomi: 
                        Your father, the President, has directed me to inform you, that he wishes you to assemble
                            your scattered warriors, and to form towns and villages, in situations best adapted to
                            cultivation; he will cause you to be furnished with horses, cattle, hogs, and implements of
                            husbandry, and will have persons provided to instruct you in the management of them. My
                            children, turn your thoughts seriously to this important object. You know that the game
                            which afforded you subsistence is yearly becoming more scarce, and in a short time you will
                            be left without resource, and your wives and children will in vain ask you for food.
                        
                     My Children, it is very easy for you to avoid this calamity. A great many
                            years ago the white people subsisted as you do now upon the wild beasts of the forest. When
                            those were becoming scarce the Great Spirit communicated to them the method of raising grain
                            for bread, and taught them to bring the ox and the horse under their subjection though they
                            had been as wild as your deer and buffaloe and thus to assist them in cultivating the earth.
                        
                     My Children, you may perhaps think that the plan I have recommended is too
                            difficult to be effected; but you may depend upon it that with the proper exertions on your
                            part there is no doubt of its success. The experiment has been fairly tried with your
                            brothers the Creeks and Cherokees. Many individuals of the former have herds of cattle
                            consisting of some hundreds together with an abundance of corn and vegetables. This has had
                            a most happy effect on their population and all their wigwams are already filled with
                                children.31
                  
                    
                
            In spite of all the words and promises of the previous years, very little was said about civilizing
                    the Indians in Indiana Territory in the many treaties negotiated with the Indians during the next
                    two years. At the negotiation of the Treaty of 
                        Vincennes
                     on August 13, 1803, a one-hundred-dollar annuity was granted the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     for the support of a 
                  
                     30 Secretary of War to Governor Harrison, February 23, 1803, ibid., 189.
                  
                     31 Governor Harrison's address to 
                                Kaskaskia
                            , Kickapoo, Wea, Eel River
                            
                                Miami
                            , Piankashaw, and Potawatomi at 
                                Vincennes
                            , August 12, 1802, Esarey, Messages and Letters, I,
                        54-55.
               
                     Catholic priest, who, in addition to his religious duties, was
                    to teach the rudiments of literature. An additional three hundred dollars was granted to help build
                    a church. These were the only provisions of a section included to procure "the means of
                    improvement in the arts of civilized life."32
            
            In May, 1806, the Secretary of War authorized the Piankashaw to use one hundred dollars of their
                    annuity to pay a Catholic priest.33 A treaty made with the Piankashaw on August 27, 1804, at 
                        Vincennes
                     provided for a ten-year annuity of two hundred dollars to be paid in "money,
                    merchandise, provisions, or domestic animals, and implements of husbandry, at the option of the said
                        tribe…."34
            
            The only one of all the treaties negotiated by Harrison that provided for a definite program was made
                    with the 
                        Delaware
                     on August 18, 1804, at 
                        Vincennes
                    : 
                        Article 2. The said tribe shall receive from the 
                                United States
                            , for ten years, an additional annuity of three hundred dollars, which is to be
                            exclusively appropriated to the purpose of ameliorating their condition, and promoting their
                            civilization. Suitable persons shall be employed, at the expense of the 
                                United States
                            , to teach them to make fences, cultivate the earth, and such of the domestic
                            arts as are adapted to their situation; and a further sum of three hundred dollars shall be
                            appropriated, annually, for five years, to this object. The 
                                United States
                             will cause to be delivered to them, in the course of the next spring, horses
                            fit for draught, cattle, hogs, and implements of husbandry, to the amount of four hundred
                                dollars.35
                  
                    Two years later, however, there seems to have been little of this provision carried out. 
                        Montgomery
                     Montour, chief of the 
                        Delaware
                    , petitioned the 
                        United States
                     Congress giving assurance that his people loved the white people, and wished to settle
                    near them and "even round about them," that his people wanted to learn agriculture
                    and other improvements of life, that they, in short, wanted to "become … one
                    people" with the whites. As a result, 
                        Dearborn
                     recommended to Congress that one hundred acres be granted to each 
                  
                     32 Treaty of 
                                Vincennes
                            , August 13, 1803, American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I,
                            687.
                  
                     33 Secretary of War to Governor Harrison, May 12, 1806, Carter,
                            Territorial Papers, VII, 36.
                  
                     34 Treaty with Piankashaw at 
                                Vincennes
                            , August 27, 1804, American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I,
                            690.
                  
                     35. Ibid., 689.
               
                     Delaware family according to a suggestion made by Montour as a
                    means of making farmers of the fifty families of the tribe.36 The suggestion was
                    not acted on by Congress.
            Results appear to have been no less disappointing among the other tribes than among the 
                        Delaware
                    . William Ewing was sent to the Sac and Fox in the spring of 1805 at a salary of four
                    hundred dollars and expenses to train them in "the common and most necessary branches of
                        agriculture."37 A Catharine Shaw volunteered her services and was
                    given an advance of sixty dollars on a one-hundred-dollar grant by the Secretary of War to enable
                    her to be "useful to the Natives" in the region of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     agency. 
                        Dearborn
                    's constant repetition of the phrase "to be useful" seems to
                    infer that he was none too certain of what she intended to do.38 There is no
                    record of the payment of the remaining forty dollars, just as there is no further mention of Ewing
                    in the records after his appointment. The Congregationalists sent a Reverend Bacon among the
                    Chippewa. The latter expressed a strong desire to learn the art of husbandry, but records detailing
                    any work Bacon may have done among the Chippewa are obscure.39
            
            The Presbyterian Synod of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     desired to establish a mission among the Wyandot at 
                        Sandusky
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , but the preacher sent to address the Indians, one Joseph Badger, evidently was
                    "guilty of such base conduct" that the Secretary of War ordered him out of the
                    Indian country in August, 1806.40 He appears, however, to have proposed the
                    establishment of a school which was promised government aid if he encouraged 
                  
                     36 Petition to U.S. Congress by Montgomery Montour, December 26, 1806,
                                ibid., 744.
                  
                     37 Secretary of War to William Ewing, March 18, 1805, U.S., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book B, 46.
                  
                     38 Secretary of War to Catharine Shaw, April 16, 1806, ibid., 198.
                            Secretary of War to William Wells, August 18, 1806, ibid., 247. Secretary
                            of War to Catharine Shaw, August 18, 1806, ibid., 248.
                  
                     39 Beverley Bond, The Civilization of the Old Northwest:
                                A Study of Political, Social, and Economic Development, 1788-1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 260-261.
                  
                     40 Secretary of War to Governor Hull, August 18, 1806, Carter, Territorial Papers, Vol. X, The Territory of 
                                    Michigan
                                , 1805-1820 (
                                Washington
                            , 1939), 66. Secretary of War to William Hull, July 18, 1806, US., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book B, 238.
                            Bond, Civilization of the Old Northwest, 260. Bond says Badger had been
                            sent in 1800 along with Reverend Thomas Hughes to establish a mission at 
                                Detroit
                             but was unsuccessful. He was succeeded at 
                                Sandusky
                             by Reverend Elisha McCurdy.
               
                     "agriculture and domestic manufactures," and
                    took "sufficient pains to inculcate principles of sobriety, industry and sound
                        Morals."41 Badger appears to have remained at 
                        Sandusky
                     for some time as a "teacher of Morality," but his intentions, though
                    unrevealed by documents and letters, seem to have roused the suspicions of the government.42
            
            Two Moravian missionaries, named Kluge and Luckenbach, accompanied by three families of Christian
                    Indians, went from the Moravian mission at 
                  Goshen,
                            Ohio
               , to the White River
                    
                        Delaware
                     of Indiana in the spring of 1801. According to John Heckewelder, the historian of the
                    Moravians, the mission did not succeed because it represented a scheme on the part of the 
                        Delaware
                     to make the Christian Indians members of their own tribe.43 In
                    1806, the Prophet (whom Heckewelder confuses with Tecumseh) and his followers burned one of the
                    Christian Indians, a 
                        Delaware
                     chief, and a woman as witches.44 As troubles multiplied, results,
                    if possible, decreased and the mission was abandoned in 1806.45
            
            As stated previously, Little Turtle had held several conferences with the Quakers. In 1804 he and
                    Five Medals, a Potawatomi chief, induced the Quakers to send Philip Dennis among them. Dennis
                    established a farm thirty-five miles southwest of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , but he remained there less than a year.46 The Indians asked that
                    someone replace him, and in 1806 William Kirke was sent by the 
                        Baltimore
                     Quakers. To help Kirke carry out his mission, the President gave him a grant of six
                    thousand dollars.47 His arrival marked the beginning of a stormy episode in
                    Indian affairs. 
                        Dearborn
                     asked William Wells, agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , to use all the means in 
                  
                     41 Secretary of War to John Johnston, February 11, 1807, U.S., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book B, 278.
                  
                     42 Secretary of War to Elisha Tyron and James Gillingham, March 24,
                            1808, ibid., 363.
                  
                     43 William E. Connelly (ed.), Narrative of the Mission of
                                the United Brethren among the 
                                    Delaware
                                 and Mohegan Indians, 1740-1808 by John Heckewelder (
                                Cleveland
                            , O., 1907), 505.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 508.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 511.
                  
                     46 Lawrence Henry Gipson (ed.), The Moravian Indian
                                Mission on White River: Diaries and Letters, May 5, 1799, to
                                November 12, 1806 (Indiana Historikal Collections, Vol. XXIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1938), 448-449.
                  
                     47 Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 464.
               
                     his power to aid Kirke in his efforts to induce the Indians to
                    turn to farming.48
            
            Wells's career was one of those which could have been found only in a frontier society.
                    Raised among the Indians, he had led a large band of Indians in the massacre of St. Clair's
                    army and had then served with distinction as a scout in the American army under Anthony Wayne.
                    Shortly after the Battle of Fallen Timbers, he returned to the Indians and married the daughter of
                    Little Turtle. His knowledge of the Indians and their great trust in him, as well as his past
                    services to the government, made him the logical choice for the post of Indian agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . What part he and Little Turtle played in the Kirke affair is uncertain, but charges
                    and recriminations flew from all sides, and, in the end, the reputations of both Kirke and Wells
                    were ruined.
            The facts of the case are difficult to sort out, for each side probably exaggerated its claims at the
                    expense of the other. Evidently, on his arrival in the territory, Kirke set out to find Indians
                    among the 
                        Miami
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    , and Potawatomi who would live on his farm and learn trades. The diary kept by Kluge
                    and Luckenbach, Moravian missionaries among the White River
                    
                        Delaware
                    , reveals what happened there when Kirke arrived at their mission on August 19, 1806: 
                  
                     
                        
                           19th. A Quaker came here. This man has lived near 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     since spring, his object being to civilize the 
                                        Miami
                                     nation. Two Quakers are among the 
                                        Miami
                                     to show them how to clear the land and plant. As the 
                                        Quaker
                                     mentioned above said, their object is not to remain there very long.
                                    After they have taught the Indians and several families are ready to become the
                                    leaders, then the Quakers will return home, turning the civilization begun over to
                                    the Indians to continue. Should they see that the Indians would continue the good
                                    work, a school would be established among them. The Quakers also desire to take some
                                    young Indians home with them and teach them trades. He said that he had come here to
                                    make a similar offer to the 
                                        Delaware
                                     nation. They want to ask permission to take a number of young Delawares
                                    home with them to teach them trades. The 
                                        Quaker
                                     stayed overnight with us. This gave us opportunity to speak more at
                                    length with him. It is evident that their one object is to better the outward
                                    conditions of the Indians. They do not seem to care for the spiritual welfare of the
                                        
                              
                                 48 Secretary of War to William Wells, February 28,
                                            1806, U.S., War Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent,
                                            Indian Affairs, Letter Book B, 177. For additional information on Wells, see
                                            in this issue Dwight L. Smith (ed.), "William Wells and the Indian
                                            Council of 1793."
                           
                                     heathen. The 
                                        Quaker
                                     told us that he was very well acquainted with the Brethren and that he
                                    believed that the efforts of the Quakers and those of the Brethren would fit well
                                    together. We told him that our only object was to preach the gospel to the Indians
                                    and acquaint them with their Creator and their Saviour, and to do all we could to
                                    bring about their eternal salvation, etc. He was a very pleasant man and expressed
                                    his pleasure at having made our acquaintance.
                        
                           20th. The 
                                        Quaker
                                     rode away to the Indian Chief to make known his errand….
                        
                           22d. The 
                                        Quaker
                                     returned and stayed with us overnight. He said the Chief had promised
                                    to send his answer to 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    . This was all that he could do.
                        
                           23d. Early in the morning he left us, inviting us cordially to
                                    visit him. While the Quaker was here a number of Indians came here for a visit. They
                                    inquired the object of his being here. When they learned that he desired to teach
                                    the Indians to work as the white people do, they said, "This man tires his
                                    horse in vain. He would better stay at home and work for himself as he pleases. We
                                    do not need anyone to teach us how to work. If we want to work we know how to do it
                                    according to our own way and as it pleases us," etc.49
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Wells claimed that Kirke's attempts were uniformly rejected by all the Indians as they did
                    not believe he could "fulfill the views of the President" and, evidently, because
                    they did not trust him since he had supposedly asked them to sign receipts for goods they had not
                    received. Wells suggested that if the program were to be successful, he (Wells) should be given full
                    charge of it without any raise in his pay.50
            
            Kirke complained to Secretary of War 
                        Dearborn
                     and to Governor Harrison that his failure was due to obstructions placed in his path by
                    Wells. Both chose to believe Kirke. 
                        Dearborn
                     minced no words in telling Wells that he should "give more satisfactory
                    evidence of more useful zeal and honest candor, than your late conduct has evinced." He
                    continued the reprimand: 
                        No subterfuge will be admitted to extenuate the evident unpropriety of your conduct in
                            relation to the persons sent into 
                        
                           49 Gipson, The Moravian Indian Mission on
                                            White River
                           , 448-450.
                        
                           50 William Wells to Governor Harrison, June, 1807, Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 218. According to Esarey, Dawson says
                                    there was a meeting of the chiefs at which they refused to support Kirke because he
                                    was a stranger; however, see Moses Dawson, A Historical Narrative of
                                        the Civil and Military Services of Major-General William H. Harrison (
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , O., 1824), 91-92. Dawson plainly took the side of Johnston and related
                                    that the Indian attitude toward Kirke was produced by "one of those
                                    intrigues for which the agent [Wells] was noted."
                     
                             that country for the express purpose of aiding the
                            natives in the arts of civilization. The circumstances attending this business render your
                            intentions so self evident, as to require no other proof than the result of the different
                            conferences with the respective chiefs in your presence. At all events, one of two things
                            must be a fact, either that you possess no kind of useful influence with the chiefs in your
                            agency or that you make an improper use of what you possess. In either case YOU cannot be
                            considered as well qualified for the place you hold.51
                  
                    
               
                        Dearborn
                     then wrote other local officials asking them to remove any unfavorable impressions of
                    Kirke's work that Wells had implanted among the Indians and to give Kirke all the aid they
                        could.52
            
            Wells answered protesting his devotion to the plan of civilizing the Indians. He stated that his
                    advocacy of the government's program was well known and that he was at a loss as to what
                    had caused him to be suspected. He asked to be allowed to go to 
                        Washington
                     to clear himself but commented that for the present he could say 
                  
                     
                        that Mr Kirk will never be able to carry the business trusted to his management into
                                    execution and had he any regard for telling the truth He would of never said that
                                    obstructions had been put his way by any person but himself
                        The Indians have seen him spend a Large Sum of money that was apropriated by the
                                    Quakers at 
                                        Baltimore
                                     for their use with out their receiving any benefit from it—
                        The Little turtle told Mr Kirk last fall that He wished to better the situation of
                                    the Indians by turning their attenion to the cultivation of the Earth and that he
                                    had got them to lay out their annuities for this perpose and that by these means He
                                    hoped to receive the aid of the goverment and that himself and some other chiefs had
                                    formed a plan which they intended to Lay before the President and by his assistince.
                                    on hereing this Mr Kirk Hurried off to 
                                        Baltimore
                                     and there prevailed on the Quakers to Lay this matter before the
                                    goverment as coming from himself in order to get him Self a Lucrative appointment
                                    and the money that was so Liberally apropriated by the goverment for the benifit of
                                    the Indians trusted to his management—
                        the turtle and others took fire at this conduct of Mr Kirk in as much as they were
                                    convinst that He would never be able to carry the Business into Execution and the
                                    fruits of their Labours for several years Blasted—in addistion to 
                              
                                 51 Secretary of War to William Wells, August 5, 1807,
                                            U.S. War Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian
                                            Affairs, Letter Book B, 326.
                              
                                 52 Secretary of War to Charles Jouett, August 6, 1807,
                                                ibid., 327.
                           
                                     this the Indians found that when Mr Kirk arived
                                    a mong them that He had expended upwards of 3000 Dollars of the money apropriated by
                                    the goverment for their benifit before He made his appearence among them when they
                                    saw that He was likly to do them no good but to do them a great deal of Harme by
                                    creating jellousies and sowing the seeds of Discord among them
                        I conceived it my Duty as well as it was my first wish to reconsile the Indians to
                                    Mr. Kirk—but with these impresions on the minds of the Indians conserning
                                    him I believe if the President was present and to tell the Indians that he wished
                                    them to respect and Listen to Mr Kirk they would not do it— and this man
                                    ought not to of intimated that I had obstructed the views of the goverment trusted
                                    to his derections when He found that he was not capable to fill the appointment He
                                    had obtained by Intreague and Deception
                        So far from my obstructing the views of goverment towards the Indians under the
                                    Derections Mr Kirk I am ready to prove to you and the world that I done every thing
                                    in my power to forward them. and while I was doing so Mr Kirk was Living at my House
                                    and receiving every Kindness and assistance when He was making representations to
                                    the goverment that He calculated on to ruin me and at the same time professing all
                                    the Friendship a man could for a nother—
                        This man may be a 
                                        Quaker
                                     but I can not Beleave He is one of the Best Sort—
                        I have the Honor to be Sir with respect your most obt Servent
                        
                                    WILLIAM WELLS
                              53
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Kirke left 
                        Fort Wayne
                     before the end of the year to establish himself among the Shawnee; and Wells, believing
                    himself the victor in the dispute, sent 
                        Dearborn
                     his plan for civilizing the Indians. He believed that as long as the Indians were so
                    scattered any attempt by the government would be wasted. Therefore, he proposed that they be brought
                    together into twelve settlements where a government could be set up for them. He would employ men
                    the Indians knew and trusted, not strangers. This proposal would cost about six hundred dollars for
                    each of the six tribes, much less than the amounts which had been spent by Kirke. He suggested that
                    Captain Hendricks of the Stockbridge Indians and some of his Indians who had offered their services
                    be hired to train the other Indians, to attach them to farming, and to induce them to sell their
                    surplus lands.54
                    
                        Dearborn
                    's 
                  
                     53 William Wells to Secretary of War, August 20, 1807, Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 469-471.
                  
                     54 William Wells to Secretary of War, December 31, 1807, ibid., 510-511.
               
                     reaction to these suggestions was to suspect that Wells was
                    intent on finding a means whereby he could have charge of the funds devoted to civilizing the
                    Indians and continue his dealings with the Indians without interference.55
            
            On January 23, 1808, when Wells complained that the Potawatomi were on the verge of starvation and
                    were demanding more relief and provisions than he could supply, 
                        Dearborn
                     did not miss the opportunity to remind him that "if no improper measures had
                    been opposed to the intentions of the Government by dissuading the Indians from receiving its Aid in
                    raising provisions, they would not have now been in such distress."56
                    Within a month, Wells's attitude became conciliatory. He suddenly noticed how much more
                    inclined the Indians were to work than usual, disavowed knowledge of any person who might have
                    persuaded the Indians to reject Kirke, and professed a desire for the complete success of government
                    plans which had been confided to Kirke's care.57
            
            At the end of 1808, Kirke was dismissed by the Secretary of War. He had apparently achieved nothing,
                    and there was little prospect of any success in the near future.58 Two months
                    later, Kirke had not forwarded his accounts and vouchers to the War Department; the Secretary was
                    uneasy and wrote: "You had before been apprized that it was feared the monies disbursed by
                    you would be unprofitably expended—Your conduct has not been approved by your friends or
                    by the Government…."59 Five days after Kirke's
                    dismissal, Captain Hendricks and his Stockbridge Indians were appointed "for the purpose of
                    assisting and instructing the 
                        Delaware
                     Nation of Indians in Agriculture & Domestic Arts" at an annual salary
                    of two hundred and fifty dollars and an allowance of one hundred dollars for the purchase of farm
                        implements.60
            
            Wells was removed from his post as Indian agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     a month later and replaced by John Johnston. John 
                  
                     55 Secretary of War to John Johnston, March 10, 1808, U.S., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book B, 361.
                  
                     56 Secretary of War to William Wells, March 10, 1808, ibid., 362.
                  
                     57 William Wells to Secretary of War, April 20, 1808, Carter,
                            Territorial Papers, VII, 557.
                  
                     58 Secretary of War to William Kirke, December 22, 1808, U.S., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book B, 409.
                  
                     59 Secretary of War to William Kirke, February 4, 1809, ibid., 431.
                  
                     60 Secretary of War to Captain Hendricks, December 27, 1808, ibid., 410; Secretary of War to John Johnston, January 27, 1809, ibid., 429.
               
                     Shaw, of the Society of Friends, was made Johnston's
                        assistant.61 Johnston had resided at the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Indian Agency as a clerk for many years and had developed a deep hatred and distrust of
                    Wells. He thought his predecessor was totally unprincipled, that Wells had no regard for anything
                    "held sacred by honest and honorable men," and that he had "so long
                    travelled in the crooked, miry paths of intrigue and deception, that he never could …
                    pursue a straight, fair, and honorable course…."62 No one
                    person can be said to have done more to make Governor Harrison and the Secretary of War suspicious
                    of Wells's motives and activities than Johnston.
            Johnston's report on his visit to Kirke's settlement among the Shawnee shortly
                    after he became agent makes the search for the truth of the matter even more difficult. He reported
                    that 
                        the settlement is in a state of great forwardneas, the Saw Mill almost ready to run, the
                            materials for the Grist Mill on the spot and some of the Machienery completed, both mills I
                            think might be in a condition to work in three months with the same number of hands formerly
                            employed—The Indians you will perceive are very solicitous to have the settlement
                            continued, the Mills completed and Mr Kirk to return and reside with them, he is much loved
                            by them the settlement bears the marks of industry, and on the whole does him much
                                credit—63
                  
                    
                
            The government's program of civilizing the Indians in Indiana Territory was evidently
                    sabotaged by a bitter struggle between Wells and Little Turtle on the one hand, and Johnston and
                    Kirke on the other. Before the wreckage caused by this feud could be salvaged, troubles with Indians
                    led by Tecumseh which culminated in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1811, were developing. This situation made any plans for civilizing the Indians
                    subordinate to the problems of subduing them.
            Attempts to civilize the Indians elsewhere in the Old Northwest during the period prior to the War of
                    1812 appear to be nonexistent except in 
                        Michigan
                     Territory. There, Governor William Hull was authorized in January, 1806, to hire a
                    practical farmer and a blacksmith to instruct the Indians. He could give domestic animals to those
                    chiefs who would make 
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 428.
                  
                     62 John Johnston to Governor Harrison, June 24, 1810, Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 432.
                  
                     63 John Johnston to Secretary of War, April 15, 1809, Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 648.
               
                     good use of them, and cards, wheels, etc. to the women.64 For such purposes, he received an original sum of one thousand dollars,65 but what the results of these expenditures may have been does not appear in
                    the records.
            The chief concern of the War Department in 
                        Michigan
                     was a school established by Reverend Gabriel Richard at Spring
                    Hill, two or three miles north of 
                        Detroit
                    . In April, 1808, President Jefferson approved Richard's plan for a
                    coeducational school for poor white children and a few Indians. The Secretary of War promised two to
                    four hundred dollars a year for its support as soon as it should be in operation, the amount to
                    depend on the number of Indians enrolled.66 Richard planned to teach
                    agriculture, trades, and the fundamentals of most branches of learning. Taken as a whole, his views
                    on the subject of civilizing the Indians were the same as the government's except that he
                    intended to train children in schools away from their homes instead of teaching adults in their own
                        villages.67
            
            By November, 1809, the school at Spring Hill appeared to be well on its way to
                    unqualified success. Richard had equipped a large farmhouse and several outbuildings with the
                    necessary furniture, clothing, and provisions, including 
                        a loom, more than a dozen of Spinning wheels, a Spinning Jenny … Electrical
                            Apparatus, an air-Pump, an Optics, few hundred books, a Surveying Compass …
                            mathematical Instruments: 5 or 6 hundred lb of nails as many hundred of window Glasses,
                            timber, shingles, boards planks, &c for buildings, An organ, a Printing-Press with
                            6, or 700 lb of types and above 60 reams of paper &c.
                    Five or six hundred pounds of wool had already been used in teaching children how to spin.
                    He had employed five or six people continuously since May, 1808. Richard planned a bakehouse, a
                    washhouse, a shop for the carpenter and the weaver, and a dormitory for the boys. But he was in
                    trouble. He had gone ahead without waiting for word from 
                        Washington
                     concerning the money promised him. Since none was sent, his bills became long overdue,
                    his credit declined, he was unable to carry out his building program, and the timbers and sup- 
                  
                     64 Secretary of War to Governor Hull, January 28, 1806, ibid., X, 38.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 38, n. 77.
                  
                     66 Secretary of War to Governor Hull, April 30, 1808, ibid., 217.
                  
                     67 Memorial to Congress by Rev. Gabriel Richard, January 19 and 20,
                            1809, ibid., 262-266.
               
                     plies began to rot.68 Governor Hull
                    endorsed all Richard's claims and, as a matter of fact, had gone so far as to advance
                    Richard three hundred dollars out of his own pocket. Hull reported that the twelve Indian children
                    were making good progress in their studies and that they and their parents were "very much
                    satisfied with their new condition."69
            
            Unfortunately governmental bungling and red tape destroyed Spring Hill and the
                    plans of its founder. The farm was in the hands of the Treasury Department as the result of default
                    on a debt due the government by the original owner. Jefferson, Dearborn, and Secretary of the
                    Treasury Albert Gallatin had reached an agreement that when the farm was placed at auction as
                    required by law, the War Department would bid on it up to the amount of its true value. In addition
                    to Richard, the farm would then be used by two Frenchwomen who wished to conduct a school for Indian
                    girls, by the "practical farmer" employed to teach farming to the Indians, and by
                    the carpenter and blacksmith hired by the government. Since Spring Hill was the
                    site of Indian encampments when the tribes came to 
                        Detroit
                    , it was in an ideal location for bringing its varied services to the attention of the
                    Indians. All these points had to be explained by Jefferson to his successor, James Madison, in a
                    letter in which he argued that the civilized arts taught by the school would "soften,
                    conciliate, & preserve" the Indians. Thus, Jefferson commented, peace could be
                    obtained at the cost of four hundred dollars a year and the price of the farm.70
            
            The incoming secretary of war, William Eustis, allowed Richard the four hundred dollars but refused
                    to grant any other aid.71
                    
                        Madison
                     agreed that the farm be sold by the Treasury Department with the intention of allowing
                    Father Richard (and, by implication, not the War Department) to buy it.72 With
                    so many individuals and governmental departments involved, it is only natural that the plan went
                    awry. When the farm was put up for auction, Judge James Witherell 
                  
                     68 Gabriel Richard to President Madison, November 17, 1809, ibid., 287-290.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., 291. It is of interest to note that the indictments presented
                            against Governor Hull and Judge James Witherell in 1809 were printed on Richard's
                            press. See Bond, Civilization of the Old Northwest, 237.
                  
                     70 Thomas Jefferson to President Madison, December 7, 1809, Carter,
                                Territorial Papers, X, 300-302.
                  
                     71 Secretary of War to Governor Hull, January 3, 1810, U.S., War
                            Department, Secretary's Office, Letters Sent, Indian Affairs, Letter Book C, 10.
                  
                     72 Secretary of War to Governor Hull, May 21, 1810, ibid., 29.
               
                     bid five thousand dollars for it, an amount far beyond
                    Richard's means and even beyond what Jefferson and 
                        Dearborn
                     would have paid had they still been in office. At the same time, Richard was presented
                    with a bill from the Treasury Department for over two hundred dollars in back rent. Richard had not
                    known of that part of the bargain and protested that to pay the bill he would have to sell part of
                    his equipment. He argued that the improvements he had made on the farm were worth far more than the
                    rent payments. So far as that was concerned, those same improvements had been responsible for the
                    high price the farm brought, for a resulting profit for the Treasury, and for the loss of
                    Richard's school.73
            
            Though it soon appeared that the judge was dissatisfied with his purchase, neither Father Richard nor
                    the War Department could pay the price he asked and Richard was forced to move. "My present
                    Situation is extremely painfull…. I said to myself: it is then in vain I have worked so
                    hard, travelled so far, and struggled against so many obstacles!"74 But
                    in a letter to Jefferson he said, "I have not given up & I will not give up the
                    design of Instructing lndian children. I am certain that with constancy we shall
                        succeed."75 Unfortunately Richard's hopes and the hopes of
                    all those who thought like him came to nought in the period of deteriorating Indian relations before
                    the War of 1812.
            Whatever the motives of the government between 1800 and 1810, whether to cheat the Indian of his
                    lands or to civilize him and make him one with the American people (and no strong case can be made
                    to support either view), the problems were greater than anyone realized at the time and the means
                    for dealing with them were too feeble for success. Probably the task of educating the Indian would
                    not have been so formidable before the policy of Indian removal to less fertile and more
                    inhospitable lands west of the Mississippi River was inaugurated, as was proved
                    by the experience with the Cherokee and Creek Indians. In the Old Northwest, land hunger, apathy,
                    personal rivalries, and mounting Indian problems made the experiment impossible. But there were
                    those who tried.
            
               
                  73 Gabriel Richard to President Madison, January 28, 1811, Carter, Territorial Papers, X, 334-335.
               
                  74
                        Ibid., 336.
               
                  75 Gabriel Richard to Thomas Jefferson, February 9, 1811, ibid.,
            
         
         
         
            William Wells and the Indian Council of 1793
            
                    Edited by Dwight L. Smith∗ Contributed by Mrs. Frank
                        Roberts
                    ∗∗
                
            With the catastrophic defeat of Arthur St. Clair in early November, 1791, the American effort to
                    establish peace with the Indians of the Old Northwest through the use of force virtually collapsed.
                    Although the new 
                        United States
                     had gained the area on paper, along with its independence from Great Britain, at the
                    end of the American Revolution in in 1783, the facts seemed to indicate otherwise. The Indians posed
                    a real threat to the very survival of the small settlements which hugged the north bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     and even to those south of the river in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Moreover, the British had not even bothered to evacuate several posts on the American
                    side of the Canadian border,1 evidence which the Indians certainly respected
                    more than the treaty surrender of these posts. Seemingly determined to hold actual control, the
                    British gave the Indians moral and material aid, They increased the garrison strength of the posts
                    which they held and even built (later, in 1794) another one, Fort Miamis along the Maumee
                        River, at a strategic spot in the midst of the Indian country.2
            
            Prophets of doom predicted dire consequences. Rufus Putnam accurately asserted that the Indians
                    "began to believe them Selves invinsible,"3 while John Cleves
                    Symmes feared that Congress would abandon the frontier because of the costliness of an adequate
                    military force and that the 
                        Ohio country
                     settlements would soon fall to the Indians.4
            
            
               
                  ∗ Dwight L. Smith is professor of history at 
                            Miami
                         University, 
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  . His major field of interest is the
                        American Middle West.
               
                  ∗∗ Mrs. Frank Roberts is a resident of 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana, who has long been interested in William Wells and in Indian history.
               
                  1 The posts stretched from Dutchman's Point on Lake Champlain on
                        the east to Fort Michilimackinac on the west. In addition to the latter, Fort Erie and 
                            Detroit
                         were of immediate concern to the western country.
               
                  2 The fort was built at the site of a previous fortification within the
                        present town of 
                            Maumee
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        . It was constructed as an outpost to protect 
                            Detroit
                        . Samuel F. Bemis, Jay's Treaty: A Study in Commerce and
                            Diplomacy (
                            New York
                        , 1923), 169, 175.
               
                  3 Rowena Buell (ed. & comp.), The Memoirs of Rufus
                            Putnam and Certain Official Papars and Correspondence (
                            Boston
                         and 
                            New York
                        , 1903), 116.
               
                  4 Symmes to Elias Boudinot, January 12 and 15, 1792, in Quarterly Publication of the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , V (July-September, 1910), 93-101.
            
            
            With more insight than most American policy makers possessed, a British Indian agent, Colonel
                    Alexander McKee, asserted that the Indians "will not quietly give up by negotiation what
                    they have been contending for with their lives since the commencement of these
                        troubles."5 The official instructions of two American peace
                    emissaries illustrate the considerable divergence of American policy from McKee's point of
                    view. These instructions asserted: "We cannot ask the Indians to make peace with us,
                    considering them as the aggressors: but they must ask a peace of US."6
                    The Americans were determined to cling to the north bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     and, furthermore, to push settlement up the rich valleys of the Muskingum, Scioto,
                    Little 
                        Miami
                    , Great 
                        Miami
                    , and 
                        Wabash
                    .
            Repeatedly during the years from 1792 to 1794 the American olive branch was extended to the Indians.
                    At the same time, however, a determined major military effort was abuilding under Anthony Wayne. If
                    the former failed, the sword would be unsheathed.
            Confident of their success, if it came to a military showdown, the Indians were nevertheless willing
                    to make peace if the Americans met their demands. One of the Indian efforts to this end was a
                    general council held in the summer of 1793 on the lower Maumee River. William
                    Wells attended this council.
            Wells had been taken captive as a boy of twelve by the 
                        Miami
                     Indians and was adopted by their chief, Little Turtle. He married a daughter of the
                    chief and lived as an Indian for a number of years. He participated with the Indians in action
                    against Josiah Harmar in 1790 and Arthur St. Clair in 1791. After a visit with his family, he
                    decided to leave the Indians and join the American army. Wells became a scout for Wayne, rendered
                    valuable service in the campaign, and was rather severely wounded in a minor skirmish a few days
                    before the Battle of Fallen Timbers. He also figured in subsequent peace negotiations. Wells later
                    became an Indian agent. He 
                  
                     5 McKee to Joseh Brant, August, 1792, in William L. Stone, Life of Joseph Brant (Thayendanegea) (2 vols., Cooperstown, N.Y., 1865),
                            II, 333.
                  
                     6 Henry Knox to Peter Pond and William Steedman, January 9, 1792,
                            U.S., Congress, American State Papers, Indian Affairs (2 vols., 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1832-1834), I, 227.
               
                     was one of the victims of the Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     massacre in the War of 1812.7
            
            The following document is a deposition which Wells made to Wayne and concerns the Indian council
                    along the 
                        Maumee
                    .8 The intelligence it contains was important in helping to
                    determine the decisive American move against the Indians. The failure of the American commissioners
                    at the council signaled the march of Wayne from Hobson's Choice, near Fort 
                        Washington
                     (
                        Cincinnati
                    ), northward into Indian country, a move which ended in Indian defeat at the Battle of
                    Fallen Timbers in the summer of 1794 and the Treaty of 
                        Greene
                     Ville in the following summer.
            N. Western Territory SS1
            
            Personally appeared before me a Certain Wm. Wells, aged twenty four years born in the State of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , on the Monongahela & employed as one of my Emissaries at the private council
                    of the Hostile Indians lately held at the Rapids of the 
                        Miami
                     of the Lake.
            Who deposeth & saith, that he arrived at the rapids on the 10th day of July last when he sat
                    in Council with the 
                  
                     7 William Wells awaits a biographer. General information on his career
                            is found in Bert J. Griswold, The Pictorial Histow of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1917), 127, 136, et passim.
                  
                  
                     8 The details of the council are found in the papers of some of the
                            observers, commissioners, and participants. The official records of Benjamin Lincoln, 
                                Beverly
                            
                            
                                Randolph
                            , and Timothy Pickering, the American commissioners, are found in American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I, 340-361. See also Benjamin Lincoln,
                            "Journal of a Treaty Held in 1793, with the Indian Tribes North-West of the 
                                Ohio
                            , by Commissioners of the 
                                United States
                            ," 
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society Collections (
                                Boston
                            ), 3d series, V (1836), 109-176. Unofficial observers were sent by the Quakers.
                            See Jacob Lindley, Joseph Moore, and Oliver Paxson, "Expedition to 
                                Detroit
                            , 1793," 
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer and Historical Collections (Lansing), XVII (2d ed.,
                            1910), 566-671. The journal of Joseph Brant, one of the principal Indians at the council is
                            in Ernest A. Cruikshank (ed.), The Correspondence of Lieut. Governor John
                                Graves Simcoe, with Allied Documents Relating to His Administration of the Government of 
                                    Upper Canada
                                
                      (5 vols., 
                                Toronto
                            , 1923-1931), II, 5-17. For other related documents, see ibid., I and II, passim.
                  
                  
                            
                        1 In the transcription of this document, the editor has been as
                                literal as possible. The vagaries of the scribe as to capitalization, spelling,
                                punctuation, and paragraphing have been retained. In instances of doubt, as for example
                                in cases where a mark can be interpreted as either a comma or a period, editorial
                                prerogative has been exercised by choice of the proper one demanded by the occasion. The
                                use of "sic" and other editorial devices is held to
                                a minimum. If words are repeated from the end of one line or page to the beginning of
                                the next, they are not repeated in the transcription.
                            In the document occasional words or passages are lined out. They were probably left out
                                of the copies of this original deposition that were
                        
               
                     Hostile Indians—being adopted and
                    consider'd as one of them,
            that he was Captured by the [Weeaws?]2 at 14 years of age
                    & has resided with them, for Nine years & has frequently been passing from Post 
                        Vincennes
                     into the Indian Country, that he went with a message from Genl Putnam last fall as far
                    as the rapids to invite the hostile indians to a treaty:3
            
            "At his arrival on the 10th of July last at the rapids of the 
                        Miami
                     there were about 1400 Indians assembled & Continued to arrive daily until about
                    the 20th when they amounted to twenty four hundred; Eighteen hundred of whom were
                        warriors.
            
            That they continued to Council daily until they sent their order to the Commissars
                    [Commissioners] to go home that they wou'd not treat with them,4 this
                    was about the latter end of July. that they continued to meet in Council daily for ten days after
                    they had sent that message to the Commissoners, [consulting upon the mode & operation of war
                        &c.]5
            
            That they demanded the 
                        Ohio
                     as the boundary & in their private conversation—they also said they
                    ought to be paid for all the Lands in the State of 
                        Kentucky
                    —
            That Simon Girty sat constantly with them as one of the Council-That Governor Simcoe's Aid
                    De Camp & a Lieut 
                  
                            made to be sent by Wayne to his superiors. These words are omitted in this transcription
                                unless they are necessary to the sense of the manuscript or unless they reveal
                                additional information which the scribe as an afterthought decided to omit. In such
                                cases they are included with the lined out words indicated in brackets and labeled by
                                footnotes.
                            Since many of the place names and names of persons herein mentioned are generally
                                familiar in the literature of tie period, extensive editorial identification is not
                                made. Their specific application to this particular situation is demonstrated in the
                                other documentary accounts. See note 8 in the introduction to this document.
                            The abbreviation "ss" appearing in the first line of this document
                                stands for "scilicet," which means "namely" or
                                "to wit."
                            The original manuscript from which this transcription is derived is in the Anthony Wayne
                                Papers, Historical Society of 
                           Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
                        , and is published here by permission of the
                                society. A photocopy was graciously supplied the editor by Mrs. Frank Roberta, 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Indiana, who is conducting research in the same general area in
                                preparation of a study for publication.
                        
                  
                     2 The Wea were a subtribe of the 
                                Miami
                            .
                  
                     3 The Rufus Putnam peace mission of 1792 is detailed in his
                            correspondence and memoirs. See Rowena Buell (ed. & comp.), The Memoirs
                                of Rufus Putnam and Certain Official Papers and Correspondence (
                                Boston
                             and 
                                New York
                            , 1903), passim.
                  
                  
                     4 The impasse was reached because the council demanded the
                                Ohio River boundary as its sine qua non, a
                            concession the American commissioners were not authorized to make.
                  
                     5 The bracketed passage was lined out in the manuscript.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM WELLS
                  
               
                     Silvy of the 5th British Regiment & one other British
                    Officer with, Colo McKee,6 remained in Colo McKees house at about 50 or 60 yards
                    distance,
            That every night several of the principle head Chiefs— particular the Shanowas &
                    Delawares used to meet in private Council at McKees—with the aforesaid Aid De Camp,
                    & British Officers—
            That Colo McKee always promised, that the King their father would protect them & offerd them
                    every thing they wanted in case they went to war such as arms ammunition & provision, at
                    that place, but that they must come there for the provision that he cou'd not carry it any
                    further; That they ought not to make peace upon any other terms, than to make the 
                        Ohio
                     the boundary Line, but to defend their Lands at all events, & that the King
                    their father would not suffer them to be imposed upon"
            That a Majority of the Council had at three diff[er]ent times determined for peace & to send
                    for the Commission[or]s —but Colo McKee always made them rescind next day—by
                    his promisses over night—& that nothing prevented a peace taking place but the
                    advice & influence of the British—that all the Western Indians were in favor of
                    peace except the Shawanees Delawars—& Wayondotts
            That the southern Indians i e the Creeks & Cherokees were determined for war, &
                    wou'd Never hear of peace,
            That it was ul[t]imately determined—that they wou'd all unite in making a General
                    War & distroy the whole of the frontier inhabitants that the Southern & Western
                    armies of Indians shou'd form a junction at the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     & penetrate the Country—that they wou'd never be at a loss
                    for Provision, that the Kentuckians & Long Knife had plenty of cattle
                    & corn & that they cou'd supply themselves—
            That the western Indians were to fall upon & Destroy the army in the 1st
                    Instance—& the Southern Indians to fall upon the frontier [of 
                        Georgia
                    ]7 this fall & winter;
            That Colo McKee furnished the whole of the Indians with arms ammunition scalping knives &
                    tomhawks as soon as the treaty was over, & promissed them Clothing when they wanted 
                  
                     6 Simon Girty and Alexander McKee were renegade American frontiersmen
                            who defected to the British during the American Revolution and who figured importantly in
                            relations between the Indians and the English.
                  
                     7 The bracketed words were lined out in the manuscript.
               
                     it—that the supply of Ammunition was very abundant
                    even more than they cou'd use this winter that the arms furnished were partly rifles
                    & partly Fusces [fusilsl—the Rifles carry an ounce ball & have three
                    sights behind two to lift up—in proportion to the distance at which they fire, that the
                    Chiefs were furnished with Horsman swords & pistols
            That the number of warriors who wou'd immediately operate against the Legion8 wou'd be about sixteen Hundred composed of the following Nations,
                    viz 
                  Fighting men
                  
                     Shawanoes
                     300
                     Chepawas
                     150
                  
                  
                     Delawares
                     350
                     part of the Six Nations
                     35
                  
                  
                     Miamies
                     100
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     Wayondotts
                     200
                     Cherokees & other Indians living on the Miami
                     65
                  
                  
                     Tawas [
                                    Ottawa
                                ]
                     150
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     Munsays9
                     
                     30
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     Pottawatimes
                      
                     100
                     There are six or seven other nations living on Lake Michigan who
                                will be with them say
                     40
                  
                  
                      
                     1230
                      
                     290
                  
                  
                      
                      
                      
                     total 1520
                  
                total Fifteen Hundred & twenty provided the army moves with rapidity—but
                    if they advanced as slow as the[y] did in the Campaign of 1791—they [sic] Indians will most certainly Collect to at least two thousand warriors,
                    they appear to be confident of success:—after delivering the terms &c they had a
                    General war dance, that the British officers joined in it—particularly Gov Simcoes ADC
                    [aide-de-camp] painted as an Ind[ia]n.
            That the distance from the 
                        Miami
                     towns is about 35 to Au Glaise, & from Au Glaise to Colo McKee's is
                    about 24 miles—the place from which the Hostile Indians always received their
                    supplies—that Mr Elliot10—partner of McKee's had
                    set off for detroit for a large supply of Indian stores. 
                  
                     8 After the defeat of St. Clair the army was reorganized. Its new
                            designation was "Legion of the 
                                United States
                            ."
                  
                     9 The Munsee comprised one of the three principal divisions of the 
                                Delaware
                            .
                  
                     10 Matthew Elliott had defected to the British along with Girty and
                            McKee.
               
                     that by this time, he must have returned with them; That there
                    are small Indian Villages all the way from Au Glaise on both sides of the river down to Colo McKees.
                    & from McKees to the Lake which is sixteen miles. & allong the Lake all the way to 
                        Detroit
                    —That there are always a number of Indians with and about Colo
                    McKee's
            That the distance from Fort Jefferson to the 
                        Miami
                     Villages is about Seventy miles & from Au Glaise to Fort Jefferson is nearly
                    about the same distance, the Indians however say it is nearer from Au Glaise to Fort Jefferson, than
                    from, the 
                        Miami
                     Villages to that Fort:—that the 
                        Miami
                     Indians went directly from the field of battle to Au Glaise. That the route which Genl
                    St Clair was on led to the right of the 
                        Miami
                     Villages, & wou'd have crossed Genl Harmars trace before he
                    reach'd that town, that the battle was fought on the main branch of the 
                        Wabash
                    —& that had he taken a direct course from Fort Jefferson he
                    shou'd not have crossed that river but once the course he was on wou'd have
                    crossed it three times, that he believes the Indian path which Genl St Clair followed is on the best
                    ground & wou'd have led him to the 
                        Miami
                     Villages by turning considerably to the left after leaving the field of Battle, but the
                    path is now grown up & full of bushes:—that he is of Opinion the nearest
                    & best route from Fort Jefferson to Glaise wou'd be by the field of Battle
                    & then to incline a little more to the right—was to fall in with the
                        Glaise river some distance from its junction with the miami & keep
                    down it which wou'd be sure guide to the Indian towns, that the distance from the field of
                    Battle to Au Glaise is not more than forty Miles;
            That the I[n]dian spies or runners frequently come in from the vicinity or within view of Fort
                    Jefferson to Au Glaise in one day—that is between daylight & dark—that
                    one of those runners wou'd go from Fort 
                        Washington
                     to Fort Jefferson in one day—that he believes it to be farther From Fort 
                        Washington
                     to Jefferson—than from Jefferson to Au Glaise
            That their plan of operation will be in the first instance to attack the convoys—to kill
                    the pack horses—to harress the army by firing frequently upon them in the
                    night—four or six hundred at a time, until they fatigue them out—provided they
                    think the army too numerous—but shou'd they think  themselves in force sufficient—they will immediately attack
                    the army after passing the Battle Ground11 perhaps before.
            That the Indians seperated on the 28th ultimo & were to assemble again at Au Glaise in twenty
                    five days from that time, in order to Operate, as circumstances may [illegible]— i e to
                    watch the motions of the Army—& wait a favorable moment to strike
            That two men belonging to Cap Priors Company deserted from Fort Jefferson one of them arrived at the
                    rapids on the 18th of July—& gave the Indians as full intelligence as he was
                    capable of—that two soldiers were captured near fort Jefferson, they were brought to Au
                    Glaise, one of them was Killed immediat[e]ly & his body thrown into the river, the other was
                    sent to a Shawane's town lower down
            That were the Legion to penetrate as far as the rapids— he is decidedly of Opinion, that
                    not only the Militia about detroit but also the British troops wou'd advance to Oppose us:
                    that the Militia French & English are about fifteen Hundred Commanded by Colo. McKee
            That the Creeks & Chickasaws were on the point of going to war with each other—but
                    the Creeks say they were desuaded from it by their Fathers the Spaniards—who told them if
                    they wished to go to war—there were people who wanted to take their Lands from
                    them—to unite & go to war against them—i e against the US—
            That the Creeks were accompanied by a British officer from their Nation to the rapids of the 
                        Miami
                     who they Called their Father—he lives in the Creek's
                    Nation—immediately upon his arrival Colo McKee furnished him with a sailboat to go down
                    lake Erie to Governor Simcoe's that he returned from thence to the rapids at the time that
                    the Commissioners sent by two runners that they were going home
            That this officer told the Indians he had accomplished the business upon which [he] went that arms
                    & ammunition &c were already sent to the Creek Nations by water—that the
                    American Army wou'd be divided that part must go to the southward—that he had
                    seen a paper mentioning that since they left home—the Creeks & Cherokees had
                    destroyed several Villages & all the frontier inhabitants next those Nations —he
                    told the western Indians—that they wou'd have but a 
                  
                     11 "Battle Ground" and "field of
                            battle" used previously refer to the site of St. Clair's defeat, where
                            Fort Recovery, 
                                Ohio
                            , now stands.
               
                     small army to oppose, that the Kentuckians wou'd find
                    business enough at home—that they & the people of Cumberland wou'd be
                    attacked by the Choctaws & Cherokees—that this is corroborated by the Cherokees
                    themselves:
            That all the southern Indians say they were advised & encouraged by the Spaniards to go to
                    war against the Americans with a promise of a full supply of every thing they— wanted
            That upon the whole he is fully of Opinion that a very General Confed[e]racy is formed and forming
                    among the Indian nations against America except the 
                        Wabash
                     & 
                        Illinois
                     & Kickpoos [& the Six Nations]12 Tribes of Indians
                    who are determined for peace nor did they or any of the Chickasaw or Choctaws attend the
                    Council—that there were letters from the two last named nations by which it
                    wou'd appear that those Nations were much divided in their sentiments for war or
                    peace—& that part of the Chickasaws—threatened to
                    fall upon Piomingo
               13 & his towns—because he
                    refused to go to war against America.
            That the Six Nations, were Generally inclined for peace, from the first to the last, except a few of
                    their young warriors, & one Chief of considerable note who had but one eye
            Wm Wells
            Sworn before me at Hobsons Choice this 16th day of Sepr 1793
            Anty Wayne
            
               
                  12 The bracketed passage was inserted in the manuscript and then lined
                        out.
               
                  13 Piomingo was the leader of a pro-American Chickasaw contingent that
                        joined the St. Clair expedition in 1791. See "William Colbert," Frederick W.
                        Hodge (ed.), Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico (2 vols., 
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , 1907-1910), I, 322. Hodge's Handbook is Bulletin 30 of the Bureau of American Ethnology.
            
         
         
         
            Minutes and Ordinances of the Town of Anderson, Indiana, 1849-1850
            
               Edited by Donald F. Carmony
               ∗ Contributed by
                    Edward J. Ronsheim, Sr.∗∗
            
            The organization of counties and the incorporation of towns was an important function of the Indiana
                    General Assembly in pioneer days. Moreover, such organization and incorporation was as much a part
                    of pioneering as was the building of log cabins, clearing of forests, establishment of grist mills,
                    opening of roads, founding of newspapers, and establishment of churches and schools. Under the
                    Constitution of 1816 the Indiana General Assembly enacted a local or special law for the
                    organization of each county and for the incorporation of each town, with the result that the annual
                    volumes containing the laws were generally cluttered by numerous special laws.
            What is the present area of the city of Anderson was obtained from the Indians by the New Purchase
                    Treaty of 1818.1
                    
                        Madison County
                     was organized in 1823, and commissioners named by the state legislature in the act
                    organizing the county considered Andersontown as a possible location for the county seat. Since the
                    commissioners did not decide in favor of Andersontown, however, sessions of the courts were to be
                    held at Pendleton according to the terms of the act establishing the county. Pendleton served as the
                    county seat until 1827, when Andersontown became the county seat. Various changes have been made in
                    the boundaries of the county, before and after 1827, but Anderson (then Andersontown) has remained
                    county seat since that time.2
            
            
               
                  ∗ Donald F. Carmony is associate professor of history at
                        Indiana University and editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
               
               
                  ∗∗ Edward J. Ronsheim, Sr., is a resident of
                        Anderson who has been interested in the early history of that city for many years. He was
                        instrumental in the preservation of this document by the Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana
                        Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  1 R. C. Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                        1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1951), I, 111-112.
               
                  2 The information regarding the organization of 
                            Madison County
                        , selection of a county seat, and changes in boundaries is based on George Pence and
                        Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries: Territory, State, and County (Indiana
                            Historical Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1933), 570-579.
            
            
            Andersontown grew slowly, and its population was only 383 by 1850.3 In 1848 its
                    name was shortened to Anderson,4 and the next year the town was incorporated by
                    special act of the general assembly. This act named "John Davis, Esq., P. H. Lemon, Adam
                    Reed, W. G. Atherton, and Brazelton Nowland"5 as trustees of the town,
                    declared Anderson a body politic, and gave the trustees substantial legislative and police
                        powers.5
            
            As indicated in the document which follows, the trustees met in 1849, were sworn into office, and
                    began enacting laws, appointing officials, and otherwise establishing town government under the new
                    charter. The record which follows includes minutes of and ordinances passed at early meetings in
                    1849 and 1850. A careful reading of these minutes and ordinances shows that the town organizers gave
                    attention to: the immediate need for revenue from taxes and fees, the problem of restraining
                    livestock from running at large and damaging property, the necessity for removing obstructions from
                    public ways and improving streets and sidewalks, and the question of obtaining persons willing to
                    serve in essential local offices. This document, though brief, affords an interesting glimpse of the
                    beginnings of town government in Anderson following its incorporation by the Indiana General
                    Assembly.
            
               
                  3 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Seventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            : 1850, 769.
               
                  4 Indiana, Local Laws (1847-1848), 300.
               
                  5 Most, if not all, of the persons included in the minutes and ordinances
                        are either mentioned or made the subjects of biographical sketches in various histories of 
                            Madison County
                        . Because of this fact and also because the emphasis here is on the process by which
                        a pioneer town became incorporated and established as a "body politic," no
                        effort is made here to include biographical material about these "founding
                        fathers" of Anderson. Persons interested in such information should consult: Samuel
                        Harden, History of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, from 1820 to 1874 … (Markleville, Ind., 1874);
                        Biographical Publishing Co. (pubs.), Portrait and Biographical Record of 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Hamilton Counties
                            , Indiana … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1893); John L. Forkner and Byron H. Dyson, Historical Sketches and
                            Reminiscences of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana (Anderson, Ind., 1897); John L. Forkner (ed.), History of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                         and 
                            New York
                        , 1914); J. J. Netterville (ed.), Centennial History of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., Anderson, Ind., 1925). These volumes also offer
                        considerable information about the early history of both Anderson and Anderson-town.
               
                  6 Indiana, Local Laws (1848-1849), 33-36.
            
            
            State of Indiana1
            
            
                    
                        Madison County
                    
                
            Be it remembered that this day before me the undersigned a Notary public of the State of Indiana in
                    and for said County this day personally appeared Willis G Atherton Adam Reed Peter H Lemen and John
                    Davis who being by me duly sworn took an Oath to faithfully dilligently and impartially discharge
                    the duties of Trustees of the town of Anderson under the name of the President and trustees of the
                    town of Anderson
            W. G. Atherton Adam Reid Peter H. Lemen. John Davis James A. Kindle
            In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affix my official seal at Anderson this 28th day
                    of May AD 1849
            Townsend T Sharp Notary Public
            James A Kindle was by me duly sworn on the 14th day of July 1849
            Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this 14th day of July 1849
            T. T. Sharp Notary Public
            State of Indiana 
                        Madison County
                     SS2
            
            Be it remembered that on the 28th day of May, A.D., 1849 (in pursuance of an act of the Legislature
                    of the State of Indiana, approved January 17th 1849 for the purpose of incorporating the Town of
                    Anderson) Willis G. Atherton, Adam Reid, Peter H. Lemen and John Davis convened at the 
                  
                     1 The minutes and ordinances which follow are a faithful and complete
                            copy of the handwritten document, and original spelling and punctuation are retained. In
                            instances where the writer's intention in use of punctuation is uncertain, modern
                            usage is followed. Spacing has been slightly modified in a few places where reproducing the
                            original spacing was not feasible. The original minutes and ordinances are preserved in the
                            William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and are published with the permission of Caroline Dun, Librarian.
                  
                     2 The letters "SS" stand for
                            "scilicet," which means "namely" or "to
                            wit."
               
                     office of John Davis Esq, in said Town of Anderson for the
                    purpose of organizing under said Act. Said Board of Trustees when so convened appointed Willis G.
                    Atherton President of said Board of Trustees and also appointed Peter H. Lemen Clerk of said Board.
            Ordered by the Board that John Goodykoontz be appointed Assessor for said Corporation for the term of
                    one year from this date, and that he proceed forthwith to make an assessment list and appraisement
                    of all the Real and Personal property & a list of Polls subject to taxation within said
                    Corporation limits
            Ordered by the Board that said Corporation use a scrawl until it can procure a seal, for purposes of
                    attestation, Ordered by the Board that this meeting of the Trustees stand adjourned to 2
                    o'clock of Saturday next the 2nd day of June.
            Attest, P. H. Lemen clk.
            W. G. Atherton President.
            Saturday June 2nd 1849, 2 o'clock P.M. Board of Trustees (to wit Willis G. Atherton, Adam
                    Reid, John Davis & Peter H. Lemen) met pursuant to adjournment.
            Ordinances passed June 2nd A.D 1849.
            —No 1.—
            Sec. 1. Be it ordained by the President and Trustees of the Town of Anderson:
            That each and every person who shall shoot off any gun, Pistol or any other shooting apparatus within
                    the limits of the Corporation of the Town of Anderson, shall be fined for every such offence, in any
                    sum not exceeding three dollars; nor less than one Dollar.
            Sec 2 And be it further ordained—that every person who shall gallop or canter any horse,
                    mare, or gelding over along or through any Street or Alley of said town of Anderson, shall be
                    subject to a fine for each such offence, in any sum not less than one dollar, and not more than five
                    dollars.
            —No 2.—
            Sec. 1. And be it further ordained—that any person who shall lead, ride, or drive, any
                    horse, mare, gelding, mule, ass, cow  beast, wagon, carriage,
                    dray, cart, or other vehicle, upon or over any of the side walks, within said Corporation, shall pay
                    a fine not exceeding five dollars, nor less than twenty five cents.
            Sec. 2 And be it further ordained—that each and every person who shall hitch, halter, or
                    fasten, any horse or other animal, to any tree or trees set along any side walk within said
                    Corporation, shall be fined for each offence in any sum not exceeding one dollar, nor less than
                    twenty five cents.
            —No 3.—
            Sec. 1. And be it further ordained—that each & every person over the age of ten
                    years, who shall be found engaged in playing what is commonly called "Alley Ball,"
                    against the County Jail, or any other wall or building within the Corporate limits of said Town of
                    Anderson, shall be liable to a fine for each offence, in any sum not less than twenty five cents,
                    nor more than one dollar.
            —No 4.—
            Sec. 1 And be it further ordained—that each person within the limits of said Corporation,
                    shall remove all obstructions, such as stones, brick, brickbats, timber, sticks, brush, lumber,
                    shavings, chips, boxes, barrels, wood, and all other things or materials of what description soever,
                    for the space or width of ten feet on the side of the street fronting his or her real property, or
                    the property upon which he or she may occupy, reside, or own—Provided
                        however, that any person or persons who may be putting up any building or buildings within
                    said Corporation, shall have the privilege of depositing the necessary materials for the same in
                    front of his, hers or their premises, if room cannot be conveniently found on the premises of the
                    builder for said materials. And provided further, that no person shall come under
                    the exemption above granted for a longer period than six months from the commencement of any
                    building or buildings. Every person violating or not complying with the provisions of this ordinance
                    for every such violation or non Compliance shall forfeit and pay a sum not less than one dollar nor
                    more than five dollars, for each day he may violate or not comply with this ordinance upon complaint
                    of any officer of said Corporation in an action  of Debt in the
                    name of the President and [Trustees for the town of Anderson?] before any Justice of the Peace
                    within said Corporation.
            —No 5.—
            Sec. 1. And be it further ordained—that every person who shall in proper person, or by an
                    Agent, show or exhibit any Menagerie, Caravan, Animal, or Collection of Animals, Circus, theatre, or
                    any natural Curiosity or wax works, or figures, or any feats in tumbling, sleight of hand, or rope
                    or wire dancing, for gain, within the limits of said Corporation shall pay a tax for each day or
                    night so performing, as follows— to wit—each Menagerie, Caravan, or Collection
                    of Animals, the sum of five dollars—all others, one dollar, to be paid over to the
                    Treasurer & Collector of said Town. Every person who shall fail or refuse to pay said tax as
                    above provided, for each such offence, shall be fined in double the amount of the tax required
            Sec. 2. And be it further ordained—that every peddler of goods wares, merchandise,
                    jewelry, medicines, or other commodity whatever, shall, for each day he may trade or sell in the
                    business above specified, within the limits of said Corporation, pay the sum of twenty five cents,
                    and upon failure or refusal so to do, shall be fined in fourfold the amt of tax so required.
            It is ordered by the Board that Gamy T. Hoover be, and he is hereby appointed Marshall of said
                    Corporation for the term of one year, and until his successor is chosen and qualified: and that said
                    Hoover enter into Bond & Security in the sum of Five hundred dollars for the faithful
                    performance of the duties of his said office,
            It is further ordered that Enos B. Wright be and he is hereby appointed Treasurer & Collector
                    of said Corporation for the term of one year, and until his successor is chosen & qualified:
                    and that said Wright enter into bond with security, in the sum of Five hundred
                    dollars—for the faithful performance of his duties and trusts as such Treasurer &
                    Collector,
            It is further ordered—that William R. O'[Neal?] be, and he is hereby appointed
                    Engineer for said Corporation,  to ascertain and fix the proper
                    grade of the streets & side walks within said Corporation,
            It is further ordered that this Board now adjourn to meet on Saturday next, the 9th day of June
                    instant.
            Attest. P. H. Lemen Clk
            W. G. Atherton President.
            Saturday June 9th 1849, met pursuant to adjournment. Present John Davis Adam Reid and Peter H. Lemen.
                    Absent Willis G. Atherton. The Board hereby appoint John Goody-koontz Treasurer & Collector
                    for one year, in place of Enos B. Wright, who refuses to accept.
            —No 6.—
            Sec. 1. Be it ordained by the President and Trustees of the Town of Anderson: That there shall be
                    levied & collected a tax of thirty cents on each one hundred dollars worth of taxable
                    property assessed & returned by the Assessor of said town, and a tax of fifty cents on each
                    Poll, said tax to be collected and returned by the Treasurer of said town, for Corporation purposes.
            June 9th Ordered by the Board: that the ordinances passed by this Board, be published for two weeks
                    in succession in the "Weekly Democrat" printed & published in said town,
            Board adjourned to meet on Saturday next, the 16th instant.
            Attest P. H. Lemen Clk
            W. G. Atherton President.
            Saturday June 23rd AD 1849. Board failed to meet pursuant to adjournment.
            Saturday June 30th A.D. 1849. Board of Trustees met by previous arrangement—Present Adam
                    Reid John Davis and Peter H Lemen. The Board now appoints James A. Kindle as Trustee of the
                    Corporation of the Town of Anderson in the place of Brasselton Noland, who failed to qualify.
            
            The Board now appoints Ralph N. Clark Treasurer & Collector of said Corporation in the place
                    of Enos B. Wright, and afterwards John Goodykoontz, who refuse to qualify. The Board now appoints
                    George Millspaugh Town Supervisor of said Corporation and require him to qualify immediately.
            No 7.
            Sec 1 Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the Town of Anderson, that each person
                    owning Real property on the South & East side of the Streets immediately South &
                    East of the Public Square in said Town of Anderson be and they are hereby required to curb and pave
                    or gravel the side walks for the width of twelve feet in front of his, her or their property
                    aforesaid on or before the first day of October next under the direction & supervision of
                    the Town Supervisor, and that the curbing be made of durable wood or stone not exceeding three
                    inches in thickness, and that the curbing be made so as to be on a level with the centre of the
                    streets, all to be done under the direction of the Supervisor aforesaid. Sec 2. And be
                        it further ordained: that all persons owning real property within said Corporation shall,
                    immediately, when called upon by said Supervisor grade the side walks in front of their property,
                    the width aforesaid, when directed so to do by the Town Supervisor; and each person so required
                    (after having first had three days verbal or written notice from said Supervisor) to work upon said
                    side walks, and failing to work, shall be liable for the amount and ten per centum damages with
                    costs of Amt required to do said work, under the setting and supervision of the Board of Trustees in
                    an action of debt in the name of the President & Trustees of [said] Corporation before any
                    Justice of the Peace of [Sic] within said Corporation having jurisdiction, together [with?] costs of
                    suit.
            No 8.
            Sec. 1 Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the Town of Anderson that all persons
                    required to pay a corporation tax be and they are hereby allowed the privilege to work out (if done
                    when called for) said tax upon the side walks of said Town of Anderson at the rate of one dollar a
                    day for each able bodied person for which labor when performed 
                    the Town Supervisor shall receipt, which said receipt shall be taken for the amount expressed upon
                    its face by the Treasurer and Collector of said Town for taxes charged against the person presenting
                    the same.
            No 9.
            Sec. 1. Be it ordained by the President and Trustees of the Town of Anderson that Ordinance No 5,
                    passed June 2nd 1849, be and the same is hereby amended so that in all cases where Pedlers and
                    showmen are required to pay a tax as therein named, each such Pedler and showman shall pay the amt
                    so required to the Treasurer & Collector of said Corporation who shall give the person
                    paying a receipt for the amt: and if the Board of Trustees be not in session the Clerk thereof is
                    authorised upon a presentation of the Treasurers & Collectors receipt, by the person
                    applying therefor, to issue a permit to any person or persons to carry on within the Corporation the
                    business of trading merchant, hawker, &c, or to exhibit any show &c, as named in
                    said ordinance No 5. Each person violating the provisions of this ordinance shall pay the amount of
                    that fine recited in the 2nd section of said ordinance—in an action of debt or assumpsit
                    before any Justice of the peace having jurisdiction, within the limits of said Corporation.
            Passed June 30th 1849. Board adjourned.
            Peter H. Lemen Clk
            W. G. Atherton Prest.
            Board of Trustees met at the office of John Davis Esq— July 14th AD 1849.
            General Ordinances
            No 10.
            Sec 1. Be it ordained by the President and Trustees of the Town of Anderson: That
                    all fines, forfeitures & penalties, ordained by the President and Trustees of the Town of
                    Anderson, shall be collectible before any Court having legal & competent jurisdiction to
                    take cognisance thereof in an action of debt in the name of the President & Trustees of  said Corporation, & that all costs in any such action
                    shall follow the judgment of the Court trying the [cause?], provided and it is hereby [declared?]
                    that in no suit or action where the President & Trustees are Plaintiffs, shall costs be
                    charged against them in such suit or action.
            No 11
            Sec. 1 Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the Town of Anderson:
                    That each and all persons who shall hitch, halter or fasten any horse, mare or other animal to the
                    fencing around the Public Square in said Town of Anderson, shall pay for each such offence, not less
                    than one dollar nor more than five dollars.
            Ordinance No 6 Amendment of, No 12.
            Sec 1. Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the Town of Anderson:
                    that so much of Ordinance No 5, passed June 9th 1849, be & the same is hereby declared to be
                    so amended that all Circuses which may show or exhibit within the limits of said Corporation, for
                    gain, for each time such Circus shall exhibit or perform as aforesaid, the manager or agent thereof
                    shall pay to the Treasurer of said Corporation the sum of five dollars: and upon refusal or neglect,
                    shall pay for the use of said Corporation the sum of twenty dollars. And [each?] other show
                    & amusement exhibited for gain the sum of two dollars—and on [failure] or refusal
                    shall pay the sum of [illegible] dollars.
            Ordinance No 8, a misprint. No 13.
            Sec. 1. Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the Town of Anderson:
                    that the word "side walks", which occurrs in Ordinance No 8., passed June 30th
                    1849, is hereby struck out & declared to be a misprint.
            Ordinance relating to duties of Treasurer &c. No 14.
            Sec. 1 Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the Town of Anderson:
                    that plenary power is hereby given to the Treasurer & Collector of said Town to correct,
                    equalize, and  make assessments of all property or polls within
                    said Corporation, which may have been omitted by the Assessor of said Town; and place the same upon
                    his duplicate. Passed July 14th 1849.
            Attest. P. H. Lemen Clk.
            W G. Atherton President.
            The tax duplicate for the year 1849, containing charges making a grand total of One
                        hundred & ninety four dollars and ninety six
                    cents—and said duplicate was placed in the hands of the Treasurer &
                    Collector, Ralph N Clark, on the 15∗ day of July 1849—properly certified by
                    the President & Clerk of said Board. The No. of Polls charged upon said duplicate was sixty
                    and the whole amount of taxables charged on said Duplicate was the sum of Sixty four thousand nine
                    hundred & eighty six dollars & 66 cts.
            The Bond of R. N. Clark, Tr. & C. with T. Ryan as security is approved and accepted by the
                    Board.
            Attest P. H. Lemen Clk.
            W. G. Atherton President
            At a called meeting of the Board of Trustees on Tuesday the 24th day of July 1849, at the office of
                    P. H. Lemen, said board appointed Robert Worster Marshal of said Town of Anderson for one year from
                    this date, in the place of Garry T. Hoover heretofore appointed and who failed to qualify and that
                    said Worster be required to enter in Bond immediately and enter upon the duties of his said office.
                    Ordained July 24th 1849.
            P. H Lemen Clk C. A.
            W G. Atherton Prent
            At a meeting of the President & Trustees on Saturday the 4th day of August 1849, the
                    following ordinances were passed, viz—
            Ord. No 15. Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the Town of
                    Anderson: that each Pedlar of Drugs, medicines, Wares, merchandise, Varieties & notions
                    or any other Commodities, shall pay the sum of five dollars to the Treasurer  & Collector of said town for the privilege of vending any of
                    said articles, for the term of one year, within the Corporate limits of said town; and for the term
                    of three months the sum of one dollar and twenty five cents, and that the receipt from the Treasurer
                    & Collector shall be filed by every such Pedlar with the Clerk of said Corporation who shall
                    thereupon issue a permit for the time such receipt may specify, & that said Clerk be allowed
                    for issuing said permit the sum of twelve & one half cts, to be paid by the person receiving
                    such permit. Ordinance No on this subject is hereby repealed. Passed August 4th 1849.
            Attest P. H. Lemen Clk.
            W G. Atherton Prest.
            Ord. No 16. Be it ordained by the President & Trustees of the town of
                    Anderson: that the Marshal of said town is hereby authorized & empowered to see all
                    wood or other materials of value (building materials heretofore named excepted) which may obstruct
                    or incumber the streets or side walks within the said Corporation, the said Marshal in all cases
                    giving at least twenty four hours notice to the owner or other person required to remove such
                    obstruction. Passed August 4th 1849.
            Attest. P H. Lemen Clk
            W. G. Atherton Prest.
            January 8th 1850. Board met to wit John Davis, James A. Kindle & P. H. Lemen, proceeded to
                    appoint a Marshall in the place of Robert Worster resigned, and hereby appoint Philip S. Hay[mire?]
                    Marshall of said Corporation for the term of one year, also said Board hereby appoint William
                    Craycraft Trustee in the place of Adam Reid removed to serve until the next regular election of
                    Trustees. Board adjourned.
            Attest P. H. Lemen Clk.
            Ordered by the board that P. H. Lemen be allowed six dollars & 25 cts ($1.25 being
                    paid) for printing ordinances & making out assessor Book.
            W. G. Atherton
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Heads of Families in 
                        Clay County
                    , Indiana, 1830
            Compiled and edited by Dorothy Riker∗
            
            Since there is a lack of information available on early families in 
                        Clay County
                     because of the destruction of the courthouse records by fire in 1851, the Genealogy
                    Committee of the Indiana Historical Society feels that it would be helpful to make available the
                    names of families residing in the county at the time the census was taken in 1830. 
                        Clay County
                     was formed by act of February 12, 1825, effective April 1 of that year. The area
                    comprising the new county had formerly been a part of Owen, 
                        Putnam
                    , Vigo, and Sullivan counties. The names listed below are transcribed from a photostatic
                    copy of the Fifth Census of the 
                        United States
                    : 1830, which is in the Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               Acre [or Acres], John
               Acre [or Acres], Luke
               Alexander, Joseph
               Allen, Robert
               Anderson, Isaac
               Anderson, Reuben
               Archer, Abigail
               Archer, Patrick
               Archer, Simon
               Archer, William R.
               Ballard, William
               Barnett, James
               Barnett, Peter
               Basye, Thomas
               Beavers, William
               Beavins, Elijah [S.?]
               Benham, Peter
               Biggs, Robert
               Birch, Robert
               Birchfield, Jane
               Bleavins, Warren
               Bowlin, Celey
               Bowlin, Elisabeth
               Bowlin, Noah
               Bowlin, William
               Bowls, Martin
               Brady, Isaac
               Breeden, Elijah
               Breeden, Philip
               Breedin, William
               Briley, Absalem
               Briley, James
               Brown, Benjamin
               Buchannan, David C.
               Buckelow, William
               Bundy, Nancy
               Bundy, Simeon
               Burnett, Elisha
               Bybee, Lee
               Carman, Benjamin
               Carpenter, William
               Carrell, Hickman
               Carrell, James
               Case, Joseph
               Casiah, James
               Casiah, Samuel
               Chamberlin, Sarah
               Chance, Daniel 
                     
                        ∗ Dorothy Riker is an editor on the staff of the
                                Indiana Historical Bureau.
                  
               
               
               Chance, John
               Chance, Pernal
               Chance, Randolph
               Chance, Tilman
               Christie, David
               Christie, William
               Christie, William M.
               Church, Enoch
               Church, Joel
               Clark, Charles
               Coale, William
               Coffelt [or Coffett], George
               Coffelt [or Coffett], James
               Coffman, Sarah
               Comer [or Comes], Matthew
               Cooksey, William T.
               Cooly, Samuel
               Cooprider, John
               Cooprider, Peter
               Cowen, Riley
               Cox, Eli
               Cox, Matthew
               Crafton, James
               Crafton, William
               Creech, William
               Crist, William
               Croake, Robert W.
               Crosdey, John
               Crossley, Thomas C.
               Crummel, Joshua
               Crummel, Levi
               Crummel, Nicholas G.
               Crummel, Thomas
               Curry, Henderson
               Dalton, Jacob
               Deal, Michael
               Deal, William
               Defore, James
               Denny, Zachariah
               Dickings, James
               Doming, James H.
               Downs, Isaac
               Drake, William, Jr.
               Drake, William, Senr.
               Dutton, John
               Dyar, Ezekial
               Dyar, Luke, Jr.
               Dyar, Luke, Senr.
               Eckara, Moses
               Ellis, Stephen
               Ely, George
               Flanagan, Isaac
               Flick, Hiram
               Fortener, Lewis
               Frazure, James
               Galaspy, Thomas L.
               Gerrel, John
               Godwin, Nathan
               Godwin, Netheldre[dge?]
               Goodrich, Jacob
               Gowens, Canaan
               Grabel, Jonathan
               Graves, John
               Graves, Sarah
               Graves, William
               Green, Henry
               Green, James
               Green, Lewis
               Griffith, Joseph
               Griffy, Bartly
               Hackworth, Samuel
               Hale, William
               Hall, Joseph
               Harpool, Nicholess
               Heddy, James
               Hix, Uriah
               Holson, Nicholas
               Holt, Francis
               Hudson, James
               Hufman, Jacob
               Hufman, John
               Hufman, Solomon
               Jewell, John
               Johnson, Benjamin
               Johnson, Charnel C.
               Johnson, Eliphalet
               Johnson, Simon
               Jones, Allen
               Jones, Fletcher
               Jones, Hiram
               Jones, Joseph
               Jones, Pearce
               Jones, Wesley
               Kelly, William
               Killeon, Eli H.
               Killion, Aaron L.
               Killion, Gabriel C.
               Killion, Mathias J.
               Kindle, William
               Kintzley, Christian
               
               Kintzley, George
               Landers, Zacharia
               Lartham, John, Jr.
               Lartham, John, Senr.
               Lartham, Labern
               Lawson, Charles
               Leonard, Lawrence
               Lite, Bird
               Luther, Jacob
               Luther, James
               Luther, John
               Luther, Joseph
               Luther, Michael
               Luther, Peter
               Luther, Samuel
               Luther, Sarah
               Luther, Thomas
               Luther, William
               Luther, William, Jr.
               McBride, William
               McCollister, John
               McIntire, Jesse
               McIntire, Nancy
               McKinley, George G.
               Mace, Isaac
               Maguire, James
               Maguire, William
               Mann, John
               Maxwell, William
               Melton, Eli
               Melton, Jesse G.
               Melton, JohnRunalds, Richard
               Melton, Watson Runnels, James
               Miers, Archibald
               Miers, Joseph
               Miers, Michael
               Miers, West
               Miers, William
               Monroe, Abram
               Moore, Samuel
               Moore, Thomas
               Moore, Thomas, Jr.
               Moore, William [1]
               Moore, William [2]
               Morgan, Even
               Mostiller, Elizabeth M.
               Mostiller, Joseph
               Murphy, [Sion?]
               Music, Samuel
               Nuckles, David
               Ott, Isaac
                
               Owen, Joel
               Owen, Jonathan
               Owen, Presly
               Owen, William
               Owens, Wilbern
               [Pane?], Elizabeth
               Parr, Moses
               Peyton, Jared
               Peyton, Wesly
               Phips, Ambrose
               Phips, Benjamin
               Piner, Nathan
               Pitts, Ezekiel
               Prater, Archib[ald?]
               Pritchet, James
               Rawley, Elijah
               Rawley, Ev[i?]n
               Ray, Jesse
               Reed, Jacob
               Rice, William
               Richerson, John
               Ringo, William
               Rizley, Hiram
               Rizley John
               Roberts, Thomas
               Roberts, Thomas [S.?]
               Ross, William
               Ruddle, James
               Runnels, Sarah
               Scamerhorn, John
               Scarlet, Polly
               Scrotchfield, James
               Shull, Isaac
               Slavin[s?], Samuel
               Smith, John R.
               Smith, Oliver
               Snider, James
               Snoddy, Josiah
               Stallcup, Elias
               Steed, Samuel
               Stewart, William
               Stockton, Daniel
               Strader, Jesse
               Sturdevant, John
               Owen, David
               
               Taylor, Abraham
               Taylor, Richard S. [D.?]
               Thomas, David
               Thomas, James
               Thomas, James, Jr.
               Thompson, Lawrence
               Tranum, Sheltun [J.?]
               Vanmeter, Abraham
               Vantrece, Jacob
               Vest, Caleb
               Vest, Thomas
               Walker, Danial
               Walker, Davis
               Walker, Ephram
               Walker, James
               Walker, Levie
               Walker, Mary
               Walker, Richard
               Walker, William
               Weathers, Thomas
               Webster, Daniel
               Wheeler, Benjamin
               Wheeler, Joshua
               Wheeler, Thomas
               White, James
               White, Mathew
               Widener, Jacob
               Wiley, Alexander
               Wilkes, Francis
               Wilson, James
               Wools, Danial [W.?]
               Wright, Elijah
               Zenor, George
               Zenor, George, Jr.
               Zenor, Joseph
                
            
         
         
         
            Marriage Affidavits, 
                        Clay County
                    , Indiana, to 1852
            
                    Compiled and edited by Carolynne Wendel
                    ∗
                
            Published below is a list of affidavits attesting to 
                        Clay County
                     marriages that took place before or during 1852. After the original marriage records
                    were destroyed in the courthouse fire on November 30, 1851, 
                        Clay County
                     marriages prior to that time were re-recorded by affidavit. Since a marriage could not
                    be recorded unless the persons involved arranged for it, the list published here undoubtedly does
                    not include all 
                        Clay County
                     marriages that occurred by 1852. The original affidavits are recorded in a volume at
                    the County Clerk's Office, 
                        Brazil
                    , Indiana. The list given here was compiled from a microfilm copy of the affidavits
                    which is filed at the Genealogy Division, Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               AFFIDAVITS
               
               
                  William [K?] 
                                Houston
                            —Jane Miles
                  lic. April 30, 1849
                  p. 71
               
               
                  Enos Miles—Caroline B. Osborn
                  lic. Aug. 11, 1851
                  7
               
               
                  Jesse Fuller—Susan Thorp
                  lic. Nov. 16, 1845†2
                  
                  8
               
               
                  George Pinckly—Rebecca Williams
                  lic. Jan. 30, 1838†
                  9
               
               
                  Redman Jones—Elizabeth Smith
                  lic. Aug. 27, 1844†
                  10
               
               
                  Andrew H. Turner—Starlin Peyton
                  Nov. 2, 1852†
                  11
               
               
                  John Latham—Sophia D. Nees
                  1852
                  12
               
               
                  William B. Parker—Martha E. Linley
                  lic. Oct. 6, 1851†
                  13
               
               
                  Alvin B, Thorp—Sarah Tribble
                  Feb. 1, 1849†
                  14
               
               
                  Samuel Auston Edmondson—Elizabeth Freedly
                  Oct. or Nov., 1849
                  15
               
               
                  Michael McCullough—Eliza Jane Zenor
                  Sept. 1, 1842
                  16
               
               
                  Squire L. Case—Nancy Acrea
                  Nov. 24, 1842
                  17
               
               
                  William Blunk—Catharine Arnold
                  Jan. 2, 1844
                   
                  18
               
               
                  Burley E. Tilley—Hetta Helton
                  Sept. 11, 1844
                  19
               
            
            
               
                  ∗ Carolynne Wendel is head of the Genealogy Division, Indiana
                        State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  1 Dates preceded by "lic." refer to the day the marriage
                        license was issued. All other dates given are the day of marriage. Page numbers refer to the
                        page on which the affidavit appears in the 
                            Clay County
                         record book in which it is recorded.
               
                  2 In some of the affidavits, the date of the marriage license or of the
                        marriage is given as "on or about" a certain day. In the compilation printed
                        here, each of these doubtful dates is marked by a dagger.
            
            
            
               
                  David T. Walker—Mary Ann Cromwell
                  Oct. 17, 1844
                  20
               
               
                  William L. Cromwell—Susan Rizley
                  Oct. 31, 1844
                  21
               
               
                  Absalom B. Wheeler—Jane Lowdermilk
                  Mar. 2, 1845
                  22
               
               
                  James Sparks—Elizabeth Walker
                  Sept. 25, 1845
                  23
               
               
                  Elisha B. Peyton—Mahalia Walker
                  Nov. 13, 1845
                  24
               
               
                  James Deal—Hannah Case
                  Feb. 2, 1846
                  25
               
               
                  David T. Sparkes—Susan E. Walker
                  Oct. [14?], 1846
                  26
               
               
                  George Drake—Eliza Ann Gildea
                  Apr. 23, 1846
                  27
               
               
                  Elias Helton—Susannah Tilley
                  Aug. 28, 1846
                  28
               
               
                  Linsey Stineon—Sally Ann Graves
                  Dec. 27, 1846
                  29
               
               
                  John Eades—Delila Ann Killion
                  Feb. 1, 1847
                  30
               
               
                  Oliver Cromwell, Jr.—Elizabeth Walker
                  May 9, 1847
                  31
               
               
                  David Parker-Nancy Payne
                  Feb. 18, 1847
                  32
               
               
                  John Mills—Sarah Cromwell
                  Mar. 25, 1847
                  33
               
               
                  Charles Welburn—Mary Long
                  Aug. 13, 1847
                  34
               
               
                  Daniel D. Walker—Elizabeth Ann Rizley
                  Oct. 14, 1847
                  35
               
               
                  William Walker—Mary Jane Phipps
                  Aug. 3, 1848
                  36
               
               
                  Robert McIntire—Alley Carter Oct. 3, 1848
                  37
               
               
                  Samuel C. Blunk—Rachel Ann Hues
                  Oct. 21, 1848
                  38
               
               
                  George W. Reed—Elizabeth Eddy
                  Nov. 16, 1848
                  39
               
               
                  Benjamin [Gamere?]—Amanda Cromwell
                  July 29, 1849
                  40
               
               
                  James P. Hickman—Sally Ann Scamahorn
                  Aug. 19, 1849
                  41
               
               
                  Aaron Stark—Lydia Elen Wilson
                  Aug. 27, 1849
                  42
               
               
                  John D. Mace—Sally Ann Zenor
                  Dec. 2, 1849
                  43
               
               
                  Charles N. Mills—Sarah Roberts
                  Oct. 27, 1849
                  44
               
               
                  William McCullough—Elizabeth Mace
                  Nov. 7, 1850
                  45
               
               
                  Jared P. Peyton—Mariah H. Walker
                  Nov. 28, 1850
                  46
               
               
                  Laban Latham—Mary Ann Parker
                  Dec. 26, 1850
                  47
               
               
                  Edmond Butt [or Bull]—Jane Mace
                  Dec. 29, 1850
                  48
               
               
                  Hezekiah Wheeler—Effy Harp
                  July 20, 1851
                  49
               
               
                  William Anderson—Dorcas Hinote
                  Sept. 28, 1851
                  50
               
               
                  George Hantwerk—Susan Lints
                  Nov. 3, 1851
                  51
               
               
                  Ananias W. Lowdermilk—Frances Wheeler
                  Jan. 25, 1851
                  52
               
               
                  Dillon W. Bridges, Jr.—Lucinda Davis
                  Sept. 3, 1850
                  54
               
               
                  John Dalgarn—Harriet Phegley
                  [n.d.]
                  55
               
               
                  Jonathan M. Parker—Eliza Latham
                  Mar., 1851
                  56
               
               
                  Michael Myers—Charlotte Latham
                  Aug., 1846
                  57
               
               
                  Andrew H. Nees—Martha Slack
                  Nov., 1848
                  58
               
               
                  John Oswalt—Eupha Latham
                  Dec., 1845
                  59
               
               
                  William Zenor—Elizabeth Latham
                  Mar., 1839
                  60
               
               
                  West Myers—Cloah Cromwell
                  May, 1835
                  61
               
               
                  Henry Gilbrech-Martha Crafton
                  Sept. 24, 1850†
                  62
               
               
                  Shallum Thomas—Mary Stigler
                  Dec. 1, 1831†
                  63
               
               
                  William Thomas—Betsey Godwin
                  Nov. 1, 1830†
                  65
               
               
                  Hiram Rizley—Louisa Parish
                  Nov. 1, 1826†
                  66
               
               
                  Bird Light—Catharine Lake
                  Jan. 3, 1828†
                  67
               
               
                  Levi Walker—Drusilla Thomas
                  Mar. 2, 183†
                  68
               
               
                  Luke Dyer—Olive Hicks
                  Oct. 17, 1826†
                  69
               
               
                  George W. Randall—Nancy J. Peyton
                  lic. Aug. 23, 1850†
                  70
               
               
               
                  Charles Rheile—Amelia Wittenberg
                  Apr., [1851?]
                  71
               
               
                  David S. Grimes—Caroline Pickard
                  Aug. 7, 1852
                  73
               
               
                  Samuel S. Baily—Eliza E. Ness
                  Dec., 1836
                  75
               
               
                  David Kimery—Sarah Ann Turner
                  Nov., 1845
                  76
               
               
                  William Slack—Margury Lowdermilk
                  Jan. 10, 1833
                  77
               
               
                  John T. Alexander—Esther Denny
                  Dec., 1832
                  78
               
               
                  James T. Alexander—Cyntha Ann Downing
                  Jan., 1839
                  79
               
               
                  Ransalaer Horton—Sarah Dalton
                  June 29, 1836
                  80
               
               
                  George H. Alexander—Sarah E. Buckallew
                  Aug., 1843
                  81
               
               
                  William L. Alexander—Ann Alexander
                  May, 1840
                  82
               
               
                  Owen D. Cromwell—Huldah Rizley
                  July, 1837
                  83
               
               
                  John Bybee3—Mary Drake
                  Sept., 1838
                  84
               
               
                  George M. Alexander—Sophiah Ann Vanmeter
                  Feb., 1847
                  85
               
               
                  James Dalgarn—Margaret Booth
                  Mar., 1842
                  86
               
               
                  Thomas Drake—Mariah Bybee
                  Jan., 1841
                  87
               
               
                  Wesley M. Peyton—Nancy Chance
                  Sept., 1829
                  88
               
               
                  James Anderson—Elizabeth Cagle
                  Nov., 1832
                  89
               
               
                  Robert Anderson—Lydia Cagle
                  Jan., 1836
                  90
               
               
                  James A. Pickard—Sarah Luther
                  lic. May 23, 1850
                  93
               
               
                  William Anderson—Barbary Neese
                  Sept. 24, 1835
                  94
               
               
                  
                     
                                Washington
                             Neese—Leah Anderson
                  Jan., 1836
                  95
               
               
                  William Nees—Martha Birchfield
                  Dec. 23, 1838†.
                  96
               
               
                  David Coble—Mary Ann Margaret McIntire
                  Jan. 17, 1833†.
                  98
               
               
                  William Drake—Elizabeth McIntire
                  June 22, 1831
                  99
               
               
                  Thompson Boothe—Huldah Thomas
                  June 7, 1831†.
                  100
               
               
                  Isaac Mace—Delana Acre
                  Dec. 21, 1832†.
                  101
               
               
                  William M. Acre—Pherabe Walker
                  Dec. 12, 1832†.
                  102
               
               
                  Philip Nelson—Margaret Nees
                  1838
                  103
               
               
                  Luke Anderson—Nancy Hinote
                  June, 1839
                  105
               
               
                  Nathan D. Walker—Sarah Rizley
                  May 1, 1838
                  106
               
               
                  James P. Thomas—Barbary Barnett
                  Fall, 1828 or 1829
                  107
               
               
                  Isaac N. Morris—Naomi A. Witty
                  lic. Aug. 26, 1849†.
                  108
               
               
                  Isaac N. Morris—Nancy A. Witty
                  lic. Oct. 26, 1852†.
                  109
               
               
                  Milo Hoyt—sabella Barrett
                  Apr., 1849
                  112
               
               
                  Henry Nees—Mary Ann Wright
                  Apr. 18, 1847
                  114
               
               
                  Baldwin H. Witty—Elizabeth Walker
                  Mar. 7, 1837
                  115
               
               
                  James B. Reed—Nancy Jane Miller
                  Feb. 29, 1844†.
                  116
               
               
                  John Linn—Mary Alexander
                  1848 or 1849
                  120
               
               
                  Elias Cooprider—Polley Lankford
                  Oct. 13, 1832†.
                  122
               
               
                  Oliver Cromwell—Nancy L. Bybee
                  Aug., 1831
                  125
               
               
                  Herod Rizley—Merom Ramsey
                  Sept., 1831
                  126
               
               
                  Samuel Long—Arra Carroll
                  1840
                  128
               
               
                  Morgan B. Ringo—Mary Ann McKinley
                  Fall, 1842
                  129
               
               
                  Edmund Phigley—Rebecca Lucas
                  Dec. 11, 1845
                  131
               
               
                  Isom D. Yocom—Mary Wilson
                  May, 1841†.
                  132
               
               
                  Francis B. Yocom—Rhoda Webster
                  July 11, 1833†.
                  133
               
            
            
               
                  3 The heading of the affidavit gives Bybee's first name as
                        "John." In the affidavit itself, however, his name appears as "Thomas
                        John."
            
            
            
               INDES TO MARRIAGE AFFIDAVITS
                  4
               
               
                  Name
                  Page
                  Name
                  Page
               
               
                  Acre, Delana
                  101
                  Cromwell, Oliver
                  125
               
               
                  Acre, William M
                  102
                  Cromwell, Oliver, Jr
                  31
               
               
                  Acrea, Nancy
                  17
                  Cromwell, Owen D
                  83
               
               
                  Alexander, Ann
                  82
                  Cromwell, Sarah
                  33
               
               
                  Alexander, George H
                  81
                  Cromwell, William L.
                  21
               
               
                  Alexander, George M
                  85
                  Dalgarn, James
                  86
               
               
                  Alexander, James T
                  79
                  Dalgarn, John
                  55
               
               
                  Alexander, John T
                  78
                  Dalton, Sarah
                  80
               
               
                  Alexander, Mary
                  120
                  Davis, Lucinda
                  64
               
               
                  Alexander, William L
                  82
                  Deal, James
                  25
               
               
                  Anderson, James
                  89
                  Denny, Esther
                  78
               
               
                  Anderson, Leah
                  95
                  Downing, Cyntha Ann
                  79
               
               
                  Anderson, Luke
                  106
                  Drake, George
                  27
               
               
                  Anderson, Robert
                  90
                  Drake, Mary
                  84
               
               
                  Anderson, William
                  50, 94
                  Drake, Thomas
                  87
               
               
                  Arnold, Catharine
                  18
                  Drake, William
                  99
               
               
                  Baily, Samuel s
                  75
                  Dyer, Luke
                  69
               
               
                  Barnett, Barbary
                  107
                  Eades, John
                  30
               
               
                  Barrett, Isabella
                  112
                  Eddy, Elizabeth
                  39
               
               
                  Birchfield, Martha
                  96
                  Edmondson, Samuel Auston
                  15
               
               
                  Blunk, Samuel C
                  38
                  Freedly, Elizabeth
                  15
               
               
                  Blunk, William
                  18
                  Fuller, Jesse
                  8
               
               
                  Booth, Margaret
                  86
                  [Gamere?] Benjamin
                  40
               
               
                  Boothe, Thompson
                  100
                  Gilbrech, Henry
                  62
               
               
                  Bridges, Dillon W., Jr
                  54
                  Gildea, Eliza Ann
                  27
               
               
                  Buckallew, Sarah E
                  81
                  Godwin, Betaey
                  65
               
               
                  Butt [or Bull], Edmond
                  48
                  Graves, Sally Ann
                  29
               
               
                  Bybee, John
                  84
                  Grimes, David S
                  73
               
               
                  Bybee, Mariah
                  87
                  Hantwerk, George
                  51
               
               
                  Bybee, Nancy L
                  125
                  Harp, Effy
                  49
               
               
                  Cagle, Elizabeth
                  89
                  Helton, Elias
                  28
               
               
                  Cagle, Lydia
                  90
                  Helton, Hetta
                  19
               
               
                  Carroll, Arra
                  128
                  Hickman, James P
                  41
               
               
                  Carter, Alley
                  37
                  Hicks, Olive
                  69
               
               
                  Case, Hannah
                  25
                  Hinote, Dorcas
                  60
               
               
                  Case, Squire L
                  17
                  Hinote, Nancy
                  105
               
               
                  Chance, Nancy
                  88
                  Horton, Ransalaer
                  80
               
               
                  Coble, David
                  98
                  
                     
                                Houston
                            , William [K?]
                  7
               
               
                  Cooprider, Elias
                  122
                  Hoyt, Milo
                  112
               
               
                  Crafton, Martha
                  62
                  Hues, Rachel Ann
                  38
               
               
                  Cromwell, Amanda
                  40
                  Jones, Redman
                  10
               
               
                  Cromwell, Cloah
                  61
                  Killion, Delila Ann
                  30
               
               
                  Cromwell, Mary Ann
                  20
                  Kimery, David
                  76
               
            
            
               
                  4 This index is not part of the 
                            Clay County
                         records. It has been compiled for the convenience of those who might wish to locate
                        the affidavit of marriage for a particular person or persons in the county records; page numbers
                        refer to the county record book in which the affidavite appear.
            
            
            
               
                  Name
                  Page
                  Name
                  Page
               
               
                  Lake, Catharine
                  67
                  Parker, David
                  32
               
               
                  Lankford, Polley
                  122
                  Parker, Jonathan M
                  56
               
               
                  Latham, Charlotte
                  57
                  Parker, Mary Ann
                  47
               
               
                  Latham, Eliza
                  56
                  Parker, William B
                  13
               
               
                  Latham, Elizabeth
                  60
                  Payne, Nancy
                  32
               
               
                  Latham, Eupha
                  59
                  Peyton, Elisha B
                  24
               
               
                  Latham, John
                  12
                  Peyton, Jared P
                  46
               
               
                  Latham, Laban
                  47
                  Peyton, Nancy J
                  70
               
               
                  Light, Bird
                  67
                  Peyton, Starlin
                  11
               
               
                  Linley, Martha E
                  13
                  Peyton, Wesley M
                  88
               
               
                  Linn, John
                  120
                  Phegley, Harriet
                  65
               
               
                  Lints, Susan
                  51
                  Phigley, Edmund
                  131
               
               
                  Long, Mary
                  34
                  Phipps, Mary Jane
                  36
               
               
                  Long, Samuel
                  128
                  Pickard, Caroline
                  73
               
               
                  Lowdermilk, Ananias W
                  52
                  Pickard, James A
                  93
               
               
                  Lowdermilk, Jane
                  22
                  Pinckly, George
                  9
               
               
                  Lowdermilk, Margury
                  77
                  Ramsey, Merom
                  126
               
               
                  Lucas, Rebecca
                  131
                  Randall, George W
                  70
               
               
                  Luther, Sarah
                  93
                  Reed, George W
                  39
               
               
                  McCullough, Michael
                  16
                  Reed, James B
                  116
               
               
                  McCullough, William
                  45
                  Rheile, Charles
                  71
               
               
                  McIntire, Elizabeth
                  99
                  Ringo, Morgan B
                  129
               
               
                  McIntire, Mary Ann Margaret .98
                  Rizley, Elizabeth Ann
                  35
               
               
                  McIntire, Robert
                  37
                  Rizley, Herod
                  126
               
               
                  McKinley, Mary Ann
                  129
                  Rizley, Hiram
                  66
               
               
                  Mace, Elizabeth
                  45
                  Rizley, Huldah
                  83
               
               
                  Mace, Isaac
                  101
                  Rizley. Sarah
                  106
               
               
                  Mace. Jane
                  48
                  Rizley, Susan
                  21
               
               
                  Mace, John D
                  43
                  Roberts, Sarah
                  44
               
               
                  Miles, Enos
                  7
                  Scamahorn, Sally Ann
                  41
               
               
                  Miles, Jane
                  7
                  Slack, Martha
                  68
               
               
                  Miller, Nancy Jane
                  116
                  Slack, William
                  77
               
               
                  Mills, Charles N
                  44
                  Smith, Elizabeth
                  10
               
               
                  Mills, John
                  33
                  Sparkes, David T
                  26
               
               
                  Morris, Isaac N
                  108. 109
                  Sparks, James
                  23
               
               
                  Myers, Michael
                  57
                  Stark, Aaron
                  42
               
               
                  Myers, West
                  61
                  Stigler, Mary
                  63
               
               
                  Nees, Andrew H
                  58
                  Stinson, Linsey
                  29
               
               
                  Nees, Eliza E
                  75
                  Thomas, Drusilla
                  68
               
               
                  Nees, Henry
                  114
                  Thomas, Huldah
                  100
               
               
                  Nees, Margaret
                  103
                  Thomas, James P
                  107
               
               
                  Nees, Sophia D
                  12
                  Thomas, Shallum
                  63
               
               
                  Nees, William
                  96
                  Thomas, William
                  65
               
               
                  Neese, Barbary
                  94
                  Thorp, Alvin B
                  14
               
               
                  Neese, Washington
                  95
                  Thorp, Susan
                  8
               
               
                  Nelson, Philip
                  103
                  Tilley, Burley E
                  19
               
               
                  Osborn, Caroline B
                  7
                  Tilley, Susannah
                  28
               
               
                  Oswalt, John
                  69
                  Tribble, Sarah
                  14
               
               
                  Parish, Louisa
                  66
                  Turner, Andrew H
                  11
               
               
               
                  Name
                  Page
                  Name
                  Page
               
               
                  Turner, Sarah Ann
                  76
                  Wheeler, Frances
                  52
               
               
                  Vanmeter, Sophiah Ann
                  86
                  Wheeler, Hezekiah
                  49
               
               
                  Walker, Daniel D
                  36
                  Williams, Rebecca
                  9
               
               
                  Walker, David T
                  20
                  Wilson, Lydia Elen
                  42
               
               
                  Walker, Elizabeth
                  23, 31, 116
                  Wilson, Mary
                  132
               
               
                  Walker, Levi
                  68
                  Wittenberg, Amelia
                  71
               
               
                  Walker, Mahalia
                  24
                  Witty, Baldwin H
                  116
               
               
                  Walker, Mariah H
                  46
                  Witty, Nancy A
                  109
               
               
                  Walker, Nathan D
                  106
                  Witty, Naomi A
                  108
               
               
                  Walker, Pherabe
                  102
                  Wright, Mary Ann
                  114
               
               
                  Walker, Susan E
                  26
                  Yocom, Francis B
                  133
               
               
                  Walker, William
                  36
                  Yocom, Isom D
                  132
               
               
                  Webster, Rhoda
                  133
                  Zenor, Eliza Jane
                  16
               
               
                  Welburn, Charles
                  34
                  Zenor, Sally AM
                  43
               
               
                  Wheeler, Absalom B
                  22
                  Zenor, William
                  60
               
            
         
         
            Queries
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to fifty words, exclusive of name and address. Reply
                    directly to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The genealogy committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot engage in
                    correspondence. 
                        Want information on the families of John and George Crist who came to 
                                Franklin
                             Co., Ind. John came in 1812, George at a later date. —Druzie McKee,
                            R. R. 1, Glenwood, Ind.
                        Want names and addresses of descendants of Susan Jane Crutch-field, b. Monroe Co., Ind.,
                            1840; m. Lewis Buhl; later moved to 
                                Missouri
                            . Parents were from 
                                Kentucky
                            ; mother's maiden name was Murphy.— Col. Buhl Moore, R. R.
                            2, 
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C.
                        Want information on parents of Rebecca French (1802-1876), who was m. to Adam Dodds in
                            Harrison Co., Ind., in 1820.—Frederick Griffin, Corydon, Ind.
                        Want information on descendante of Isaac (d. 1788) and Jane Gano of 
                                N.J.
                            , whose children (Isaac, George, Delilah, Jeremiah) came to 
                                Fayette
                             Co., 
                                Ohio
                            , and then to Clinton Co., Ind.—Mrs. Ethel Quick, R. R. 3, 
                                Frankfort
                            , Ind.
                        Want information on Isaac William Jordan, b. 1822; m. (1) Electa Biggs; (2) Rachel Carlisle
                            (or Carlyle) Could. Probably lived in Jennings Co., Ind.—Dorothy Mansfield, 38702
                            Frontier Ave., Palmdale, Calif.
                    
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Calumet Region: Indiana's Last Frontier. By Powell A. Moore. Indiana Historikal Collections, Volume XXXIX. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1959. Pp. xiii, 654. Illustrations, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $6.00.)
            There has long been a need for an historical treatise on the Calumet area of northwestern Indiana.
                    Powell A. Moore, for many years associated with the Indiana University Center in 
                        East Chicago
                    , is well qualified to write such a work.
            The Calumet region, defined as the area drained by the Grand Calumet and Little Calumet
                        rivers, and consisting of the northern halves of Lake and Porter counties, developed
                    slowly; Professor Moore regards it as Indiana's last frontier. He holds that the
                    "formative period" of the Calumet ended in 1933, and he prefers to believe that
                    little of historical consequence has occurred since, at least in terms of departures from
                    established patterns. This contention, in the opinion of the writer, is open to serious question.
                    The politics of 
                        Lake County
                    , population problems, industrial development, to say nothing of transportation and
                    communication, are all topics with enormous possibilities for scholars interested in the
                    quarter-century after 1933.
            In the Preface, three periods are designated: Indian occupation and haphazard attempts at settlement
                    by whites to 1833; slow, but steady, settlement and development to 1869; industrial growth coupled
                    with rapid increase in population, 1869 to 1933. Once having set up these three periods, however,
                    the author does not clearly distinguish them in the sixteen chapters which follow.
            Approximately the first quarter of the book is devoted to geography, Indian occupation, and the
                    founding of numerous villages in 
                        Porter
                     and Lake counties. (The chapter entitled "Log Cabin Era, 1816-1852,"
                    pays no heed to the 1833 period boundary.) The next third of the book is concerned with 
                        Hammond
                    , Whiting, 
                        East Chicago
                    , and Gary. Here the emphasis is on the close relationship between industry and urban
                    growth in the Calumet. 
                        Hammond
                     and meat packing, Whiting and petroleum refining, 
                        East Chicago
                     and Gary and steel—in each case the history is traced carefully, and
                    sometimes includes a mass of detail which seems unnecessary. The last 40 per cent of the work is
                    given over to a topical treatment that deals with population (origins, problems of assimilation),
                    newspapers, education (origins of 
                        Valparaiso
                     University, the career of William A. Wirt in Gary, and Indiana University's
                    extension centers in 
                        Gary
                    , 
                        Hammond
                    , and 
                        East Chicago
                    ), labor and labor troubles (the Pullman strike, the steel strike of 1919), politics to
                    1933, defiance of Prohibition, and the Great Depression. In connection with the latter topic,
                    Professor Moore carefully describes self-help efforts of cities, townships, and counties which
                    finally had to be replaced by federal relief activities. This data is of value to teachers of recent
                    American history.
            
            On the whole, the work lacks balance. It gives the impression that it is a collection of chapters or
                    articles written at different times and for presentation to various types of audiences. Both primary
                    and secondary sources are used; their number is indicative of much painstaking effort. The
                    bibliography is excellent, but most of the materials cited are from the period before 1940.
            Useful for the study of many problems pertaining to Indiana and to the Calumet, in particular, this
                    work's greatest value is in its treatment of the growth of industry in the four largest
                    cities of the Calumet and in its discussion of labor-management relations in certain of the largest
                    companies operating there.
            
               Indiana State Teachers College Richard H. Gemmecke
         
         
            
               The Appalachian Frontier: America's First Surge Westward. By John
                    Anthony Caruso. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. 408. Maps, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $5.75.)
            
               Westward Expansion: A History of the American Frontier. Second edition. By Ray
                    Allen Billington, with the collaboration of James Blaine Hedges. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1960. Pp. xv, 893. Maps, bibliographical note, index.
                    $8.00.)
            In The Appalachian Frontier Professor Caruso discusses important chapters or
                    episodes in the exploration and early development of the Appalachian Mountain
                    region. After noting the first explorations of the Appalachian Mountains by
                    Virginians during the seventeenth century, he tells of the coming of the Germans and Scotch-Irish
                    during the eighteenth century. His narrative as well as his maps indicate why and how such
                    settlement generally pressed down the Appalachian Valley—with
                    vanguards of settlements into tributary valleys and through passes both eastward and
                    westward—from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to the lower end of the valley. Successive chapters consider the French and Indian
                    Wars, the advent of the Long Hunters into 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Regulators of 
                        North Carolina
                     and the emigration of some of them to eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , the Watauga settlements, Lord Dunmore's War, the opening of the Wilderness
                    Trail, and the attempted colony of Transylvania. Remaining chapters discuss the impact of the
                    Revolution upon the Appalachian frontier, the continued expansion of the frontier during the
                    Revolution, and statehood movements in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            This volume is an interesting and very readable general account which centers on major high lights
                    and important episodes in the early development of the Appalachian frontier—and some of
                    its western hinterland. Such high lights and episodes stand out in bolder relief than that in which
                    they usually appear in historical writings. Moreover, the importance of the Appalachian frontier is
                    indicated, as is the very great importance of the Ohio Valley frontier, as
                    settlers proceeded westward from the mountains into the foothills and thence into the fertile
                    hinterland farther west. Upperclassmen, graduate students, and general readers can all find much
                    useful material in The Appalachian  Frontier.
                    Nevertheless, this book is not as rich in factual material as it might be, and Caruso's
                    weighing of his evidence, notably material used from the Draper Collection, is not always as
                    critical as desirable.
            Professor Billington's Westward Expansion which appeared in 1949 was the
                    most detailed history of the American frontier ever published. His new second edition differs from
                    the first in two important aspects. In the first place, the chapter by chapter bibliography has been
                    brought up to date to include numerous articles and books which have appeared within the last
                    decade. This expanded bibliography, like its predecessor, is an annotated one; its ninety-two pages
                    are packed with invaluable suggestions and comments. In the second place, the new edition includes
                    some revision of the text of the previous one to incorporate the most recent findings and viewpoints
                    about the American frontier. In general, however, such revision is of a limited nature—so
                    that one might say that the 1949 text has been "amended" but generally speaking
                    not "revised." Nevertheless, the augmented bibliography and the textual changes
                    combine to make the second edition of Westward Expansion an important and welcome
                    achievement. Professor Billington has established himself as one of the outstanding students of the
                    American frontier, but in the Preface to this new edition he says with candor and humility:
                    "Generations of study are necessary before anything approaching a final history of westward
                    expansion in the 
                        United States
                     can be written." Reference to Billington's expanded bibliography
                    indicates that articles and books about state and regional topics fortunately continue to make
                    important contributions to various facets of westward expansion.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Anthony Wayne, A Name in Arms; Soldier, Diplomat, Defender of Expansion Westward of a
                        Nation: The Wayne-Knox-Pickering-McHenry Correspdence. Transcribed and edited by Richard C.
                    Knopf. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 566. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, indices. $7.00.)
            This volume on Anthony Wayne is a valuable work on a subject in American history that has too long
                    been slighted. Although this third campaign of the Indian Wars (1790-1795) has with few exceptions
                    become the "forgotten war" in our history texts, it was considered at that time a
                    campaign of great importance in the 
                        United States
                    ' struggle to make a place among the nations of the world. Newspapers, both
                    houses of Congress, and several foreign countries, especially 
                  England, France
               , and 
                        Spain
                    , were all much concerned with and interested in the outcome of the campaign.
            Richard Knopf has transcribed and edited the correspondence between Major General Anthony Wayne,
                    commander of the Legion of the 
                        United States
                    , and the secretaries of war, Henry Knox, Timothy Pickering, and James McHenry. Of these
                    three Henry Knox plays the most important role.
            While Knopf lets Wayne's correspondence tell its own story, he includes brief statements
                    introducing the correspondence of each new  year. He adds
                    explanations of the political background and historical significance behind each year's
                    correspondence and behind Wayne's plans and actions. With the aid of excellent footnoting
                    one can easily follow along with Wayne during those challenging and often frustrating years,
                    1792-1796.
            The introductory chapter explains some of the background previous to 1792. It also gives information
                    about the two main characters of the correspondence, Wayne and Knox, as well as about the minor
                    characters, Pickering and McHenry. The correspondence itself "gives in detail the plans,
                    operations, and peace negotiations carried on between the Commander-in-Chief of the Legion of the 
                        United States
                     and the hostile Indian Confederacy. It unwinds the full development of the Indian Wars,
                    military, political, and diplomatic. Here is the panorama of domestic pressures, international
                    cupidity, and political expediency which formed the backdrop of Wayne's frontier
                    enterprise" (p. 10).
            During the four years, 1792-1796, Wayne proved himself to be a worthy ambassador of peace and a great
                    general, a diplomat as well as a soldier. On April 13, 1792, he was commissioned a major general and
                    was named commanding officer of the troops in the service of the 
                        United States
                    , Although Wayne had his faults, 
                        Washington
                     made a wise decision when he chose Wayne from the field of candidates for this
                    position. And even though he was thought of as an unmitigated egotist and a military perfectionist,
                    his most ardent enemies feared and respected him. The hardships and frustrations that Wayne and his
                    small legion were to endure before achieving their final victory in battle and at the peace
                    conference could well have overcome a lesser man. Wayne's task was made even more difficult
                    by political unrest in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Spanish and British plots to separate West from East, disloyalty of high-ranking
                    officers, especially Brigadier General James Wilkinson, who was St. Clair's and then
                    Wayne's second-in-command, and party struggles in Congress back East. In spite of all these
                    obstacles, Wayne achieved a final triumph at the Battle of Fallen Timbers and proved himself a fine
                    diplomat in handling the negotiations for the Treaty of 
                        Greene
                     Ville and in taking over the British posts according to the Jay Treaty.
            Most of the correspondence in this volume is concerned with purely military matters, such as the
                    recruitment and training of men, officer appointments and dismissals, and discussions of the
                    relative merits of various plans. Both Wayne and Knox sometimes accompanied an official letter,
                    however, with a personal one not for public record.
            Of interest throughout the correspondence are the references concerning civilian contractors, who
                    often did not live up to their bargain to feed, clothe, and equip the Legion. Indeed, to Wayne,
                    these contractors seemed a constant thorn in his side.
            In spite of the many handicaps and obstacles Wayne faced, he accomplished his mission and truly won
                    for himself "A Name in Am." For those who are interested in the history of the Old
                    Northwest this book is a must.
            
               
                  
                            Columbus
                         Senior High School 
                            Columbus
                        , Indiana Maurice D. Randall
         
         
         
            
               Edward G. Ryan: Lion of the Law. By Alfons J. Beitzinger. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1960. Pp. vi, 214. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $3.95.)
            A judicial biography should indicate, as far as possible, how a judge's social, economic,
                    political, and legal concepts are molded prior to his selection to the bench and then show how these
                    concepts shape his work on the bench. In addition, there are often personal factors that have great
                    weight in determining a judge's role. Of course, the effect that a judge's
                    decisions have in forming the law must also be demonstrated. Professor Beitzinger's neat
                    little volume satisfactorily meets these criteria.
            When he was appointed chief justice of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Supreme Court in 1874 at the age of sixty-three Irish-born Edward Ryan had been
                    anything but successful, even in his law practice. Yet he brought to the bench a "keen
                    intellect, profound learning, high principles, and great moral courage" (p. 170). The
                    author competently demonstrates how these qualities along with Ryan's irascible nature and
                    his political and economic views—locofocoism, devotion to states' rights, and
                    basic conservatism—were instrumental in shaping his judicial career.
            Although he was on the bench for only six years (he was elected in his own right in 1875), Ryan left
                    his stamp on the law. His most important contribution was his realistic opinion in Attorney General v. Railroad Companies shortly after his appointment. In
                    this opinion he forcefully asserted the authority of the legislature to regulate corporate
                    combination by upholding the Potter Law of 1874, which, among other things, fixed railroad rates.
                    Ryan also fought vigorously, for he knew no other way, against encroachment on state court
                    jurisdiction by the federal courts, for a high standard of ethics for the 
                        Wisconsin
                     bench and bar—with lasting effect, successfully for limiting the original
                    jurisdiction of his court to prerogative causes, and unsuccessfully against municipal aid to
                    railroads.
            Particularly interesting aspects of Ryan's pre-judicial career are his role in the
                    Barstow-Bashford gubernatorial controversy of 1855, his defense of law and order during the Booth
                    controversy, and his defense of constitutional rights during the Civil War.
            There are of course points on which Beitzinger's volume can be criticized. The author
                    unfairly ranks Ryan with 
                        Kent
                    , Shaw, and Gibson. Ryan could not begin to accomplish in his six years on the bench
                    what Shaw did in his thirty years and approximately 2,200 opinions. Organization is also open to
                    criticism, e.g., the reader must wait until Chapter Ten to learn the effect of Ryan's
                    Jesuit training on his thinking. But on the whole this biography is a thoroughly researched and
                    interestingly-written addition to an all too uncultivated field.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State University Donald Roper
         
         
         
            
               Emanuel L. Philipp: 
                            Wisconsin
                         Stalwart. By Robert S. Maxwell. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1959. Pp. xvi, 272. Illustrations, notes, note on sources, index. $6.50.)
            This volume is in a sense a sequel to the author's La Follette and the Rise of
                        the Progressives in 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                ([
                        Madison
                    ], 1956) and is devoted to the "other side" of the Progressive Era.
                    The life and times of Emanuel Philipp, three-term Republican governor of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and long-time antagonist of La Follette, are treated with directness and sympathy.
                    Philipp was the son of Swiss immigrants from the back country of central 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and his rise is in the Horatio Alger tradition. Blessed with a pleasing yet forceful
                    personality, shrewd business acumen, and tremendous capacity for hard work, he rose in the brewing,
                    lumber, and railroad industries to become a millionaire transportation magnate.
            Like many wealthy businessmen of his day, Philipp entered politics. After an unsuccessful attempt in
                    1900 to work with La Follette and the Progressives, he assumed the leadership of the conservative
                    Republican opposition. In the years which followed, his voice was raised in defense of the status
                    quo and in opposition to "Fighting Bob," the Progressive leader, theorist, and
                    practitioner, who made 
                        Wisconsin
                     a virtual laboratory experiment in applied progressivism. In 1908 Philipp's
                    successful libel suit against McClure's Magazine, Ray Stannard Baker, and
                    the excesses of muckraking journalism catapulted him into state and national attention. In 1914 he
                    capitalized on the voters' temporary disenchantment with progressivism to win the
                    governorship of his state. Twice he was re-elected to that office.
            Philipp's administration, sandwiched between the two Progressive administrations of La
                    Follette and John J. Blaine, served a useful purpose in tempering the excesses of extravagance and
                    bureaucratization of the former and thus preparing the way for the latter. During his tenure in
                    office the numerous progressive boards and commissions were consolidated and reorganized in the
                    interest of greater economy, efficiency, and responsibility. Although Philipp's methods
                    were largely negative and his career less glamorous than those of the crusading reformers, Maxwell
                    does not dismiss him as merely a roadblock to progress. Typical of conservative political and
                    economic thought in an era of changing ideas, Philipp's sense of realism is usually treated
                    with sympathy and understanding.
            As governor during the critical period of World War I, Philipp's sane and stable
                    administration was commendable. Originally opposed to American entry into a "foreign
                    war," he avoided the intransigent position assumed by La Follette and provided effective
                    leadership at a time when his state's loyalty was suspect. After the war his opposition to
                    American membership in the League of Nations reflected the views of his Midwestern constituents.
            Professor Maxwell shows a thorough grasp of recent 
                        Wisconsin
                     history. The result is a brief but well-written and fully documented account of the
                    life of the first of several conservative 
                        Wisconsin
                     governors in the twentieth century.
            
               Indiana University Herbert J. Rissler
         
         
         
            
               The Mind and Spirit of John Peter Altgeld: Selected Writings and Addresses.
                    Edited by Henry M. Christman. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 183. $4.00.)
            John Peter Altgeld appeals to most Americans, who know his name as "the Eagle
                    Forgotten" of Vachel Lindsay's poem, as the man who sacrificed his political
                    career to pardon the Haymarket anarchists who he thought had been unjustly imprisoned. The present
                    volume of Altgeld's works reveals him as a many-sided man who deserves to be remembered by
                    history for more than that fearless pardon.
            Students of American political liberalism will welcome this volume, which for the first time makes
                    Altgeld's essays available. It includes his writings on immigration, labor, education, the
                    currency question, law and justice, and prison management, as well as his inaugural address as
                    governor of 
                        Illinois
                     and a lengthy defense of his actions during the Pullman strike of 1894 when he clashed
                    with Grover Cleveland. Altgeld's literary style is not easy, but it presents a wealth of
                    thought and a vigor that expresses his thoughts well.
            These essays reveal that Altgeld was a man of stubborn independence and a champion of justice, and
                    also that he was a hard-headed, competent, and driving lawyer and politician. The same vigor and
                    drive that made him espouse justice and political liberalism also enabled him to achieve outstanding
                    careers both in law and business in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            The most interesting of these articles are the ones on Altgeld's proposed reforms in the
                    administration of justice and prisons. His demands for the abolition of legal fines, for
                    indeterminate sentences, a probation system, vocational training for prisoners, and honor farms and
                    minimum security systems for privileged inmates marked him well ahead of his time. That most of
                    these have since been adopted is a tribute to his vision.
            Unpopular causes did not deter Altgeld; indeed, they aroused his sense of justice. A champion of the
                    rights of labor and a believer in free silver, he sacrificed a great deal of personal popularity to
                    espouse both causes. Ineligible for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1896 because of his
                    foreign birth, Altgeld supported Bryan, though with some misgivings.
            Much of Altgeld's constructive program for the state of 
                        Illinois
                     was lost in the adverse publicity surrounding the Haymarket anarchists' pardon
                    and the Panic of 1893, and these selected writings help restore that program and Altgeld's
                    ideas to their rightful place. This book is not a biography or autobiography, but one could wish for
                    a little more editing and a more detailed introduction. Nonetheless, it is well prepared. A picture
                    of the man and his causes and crusades emerges, and it rests first and foremost on his personal
                    integrity and sense of justice. Perhaps Altgeld himself wrote his epitaph when he said:
                    "The world gives only when it is obliged to, and respects only those who compel its
                    respect" (p. 110).
            
               San Jose State College H. Wayne Morgan
         
         
         
            
               Samuel Vetch: Colonial Enterpriser. By G. M. Waller. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1960. Pp. x, 311. Endpaper map, illustrations, bibliographical note, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Professor G. M. Waller, head of the Department of History and Political Science at 
                        Butler
                     University, has subtitled his biography of Samuel Vetch "Colonial
                    Enterpriser," but "Promoter" might not be an inappropriate term. This
                    colonist of Scottish origins was one of those individuals who demonstrated the fluidity and mobility
                    of seventeenth and eighteenth-century American society by rising to great heights. Of dissenting
                    stock in Restoration 
                        Scotland
                    , Vetch served briefly in the military campaigns in Europe before participating in the
                    Darien enterprise, the ill-fated Caledonian attempt to establish a colony and trading station on the
                    Isthmus of Panama. With the failure of the trading venture, Vetch found himself at 
                        New York
                     in possession of some of the Company's merchandise. By judicious, if not
                    entirely principled, use of the Scottish Company's goods, he promptly established himself
                    in the provincial mercantile community. He soon became a leading, but not necessarily legal,
                    merchant. His connections brought him entrance into the political and social world of 
                        New York
                     and the Bay Colony and soon into marriage with Margaret Livingston, daughter of the
                    important Livingston clan. There then followed a not too honest but evidently most profitable career
                    as merchant, during which Vetch further built his fortune by legal and illegal trading and shipping
                    ventures. But his well-placed political connections in 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        New York
                     saved him eventually from any legal embarrassment and confirmed his position in the
                    colonies and in the eyes of officials in 
                        England
                    .
            Professor Waller has devoted the bulk of his work to the role of Vetch in the "Glorious
                    Enterprise," the attempt to eliminate the French from North America. The transplanted Scot
                    was instrumental in initiating and coordinating colonial and English efforts in the several
                    unsuccessful campaigns against 
                        New France
                     at the beginning of the eighteenth century. The ambitious scheme for the expedition
                    against 
                        Canada
                     in 1711—a project in which Vetch was a prime mover—failed, but
                    Vetch reached the summit of his career with the capture of French Acadia. Until 1717 he was governor
                    of the new British colony, 
                        Nova Scotia
                    . But his star faded quickly after this time. Although he claimed to have the support of
                    many influential British politicians, he was unsuccessful in pressing his suit for the governorship
                    of 
                        Massachusetts
                    . He rose no further and died in 1732, a prisoner in the King's Bench for debt.
                    But the "enterpriser's" career had not been in vain; he left extensive
                    property in the colonies to his widow and offspring.
            Professor Waller's chief contribution has been to illuminate the hitherto neglected career
                    of an important colonial and imperial figure. He is particularly adept at handling the complicated
                    political situation in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    . In seeking evidence for this biography, the author has done extensive research in the
                    repositories of North America, but for the most part he has depended upon incomplete  transcripts in the Library of Congress and in the Canadian archives for
                    British material.
            Waller's work is more than a biography of Vetch; the career of the Scot is the focus for the
                    wider scene of intercolonial rivalries, provincial politics, and the administration of the empire.
                    Consequently, this history is of greater value than a more narrowly treated biography would be.
            There are, however, some questions which remain unanswered. Perhaps lack of material accounts for the
                    rather skimpy account of Vetch's later years when he apparently had many influential
                    contacts in 
                        London
                    . Still more important, how much of Vetch's "Great
                    Enterprise" was conceived because of legitimate concern for the empire? Or was he acting to
                    promote the advancement of Samuel Vetch as he did in so many of his other activities? In
                    consistently violating the Trade and Navigation Acts he did not appear to be overly concerned with
                    the imperial interest. In dealing with Vetch's "Glorious Enterprise,"
                    Waller appears to have overestimated the ability of 
                        England
                     to wage war in the colonial sphere. She was not in the same pre-eminent position early
                    in the eighteenth century as she was during the Seven Years' War. Waller concludes that the
                    eventual success of Vetch's plan, the elimination of 
                        France
                     as a colonial power in North America, freed the colonials from the threat which had
                    tied them to the mother country, brought on the program of imperial taxation, and thus helped
                    institute the American Revolution. This fact, he concludes, was "the imperial irony of
                    history." But are historical developments that inevitable?
            
               University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
                Jack M. Sosin
         
         
            
               Alexis de Tocqueville: Journey to America. Translated by George Lawrence. Edited
                    by J. P. Mayer. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1960. Pp. 394. Appendix, index. $6.50.)
            Since 1835 Alexis de Tocqueville has been known chiefly for his classic study, Democracy
                        in America, an analysis and description that remains unsurpassed in perceptivity, lucidity,
                    and charm. For more than a century virtually nothing was known of its background, conception, or
                    preparation. In 1938 George W. Pierson, having discovered some of the notebooks Tocqueville kept on
                    his American tour, published a monumental study based on them, Tocqueville and Beaumont
                        in America. Nineteen years later J. P. Mayer made the original texts available as part of
                    the fifth volume of his complete works of Tocqueville. Now they are available in an English
                    translation by George Lawrence. They comprise thirteen notebooks, some arranged topically and others
                    chronologically, and three travel sketches covering a period of nine months from May 10, 1831,
                    through January, 1832. The contents include notes and extracts from a variety of books, diary
                    entries, observations and comments on American affairs, and reports of interviews, many of them
                    given in dialogue form.
            The wide range of Tocqueville's interests, his sensitivity to the people he met and to his
                    physical surroundings, his delight in the  adventure of an
                    American tour (especially to the 
                        Michigan
                     frontier, Lake Oneida, Quebec, and 
                        New Orleans
                    ), and the cordiality with which he was received are all clearly evident throughout. The
                    rapid growth of his interest beyond the original purpose of studying the penitentiary system is
                    particularly striking. Here is the raw material on which a good many studies will no doubt be based;
                    and much of it, even though not written for the public eye, will be read with pleasure by those who
                    enjoy travel accounts of bygone times.
            Unfortunately the editing is designed neither for the scholar nor the general reader. The
                    introduction is abridged in translation and the bibliography omitted. Most of the footnotes are
                    cross references to Pierson's volume and will be useless to those without it. Some are used
                    to identify such men as Calhoun and John Quincy Adams, but less eminent persons are left in complete
                    obscurity. Occasionally notes in the French edition are silently suppressed. Misleading paging
                    (e.g., pp. 150-151) seems to have been determined by the compositor. The author's errors go
                    uncorrected (e.g., p. 214, Berian for Berrien? and p. 216, Arisban for Harristown or 
                        Harrisburg
                    ?). The translation is on the whole excellent, but errors in proofreading are compounded
                    by the introduction of mistakes that do not appear in the 
                        Paris
                     edition. A university press has done a valuable service in publishing this English
                    version, but it has not done justice to itself.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         University Harry R. Stevens
         
         
            
               William Hickling Prescott, A Memorial. Edited by Howard F. Cline, C. Harvey
                    Gardiner, and Charles Gibson. (Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 1959. Pp. 179. Frontispiece.
                    $3.00.)
            To mark the centennial of the death of William Hickling Prescott the Hispanic American
                        Historical Review devoted an entire issue in 1959 to the writings of the great historian.
                    This book is a clothbound edition of the periodical, and it makes available to a wider public the
                    essays which constitute a reassessment of Prescott and his works. While each essayist acknowledges
                    the merits of Prescott as a historian and as a writer, at the same time he presents a critique with
                    the benefit of one hundred years of hindsight. It is the style of Prescott which comes under most
                    severe scrutiny. Robin A. Humphreys, in "William H. Prescott: The Man and the
                    Historian," calls it "magniloquent." According to Humphreys, Prescott
                    seemed to prefer the Latin for the Anglo-Saxon word and used "verdant" for
                    "green," etc. It may be that "green" is preferable to
                    "verdant" as Humphreys alleges, but it must be admitted that the English language
                    would be impoverished by the complete elimination of all but a basic vocabularly of Germanic words.
            The most interesting contribution, "History as Romantic Art," is that of David
                    Levin, assistant professor of English at 
                        Stanford
                     University. This essay alone is worth the price of the book, for it shows how the work
                    of any writer, even the greatest, may be improved by skillful analysis and editing. Levin scores
                    Prescott's lack of originality in phraseology, his inattention to detail. Prescott wrote,
                    says Levin,  with "rhythmic phrases rather than
                    individual words" (p. 40). His histories represent the triumph of form over content, method
                    over sense. Levin feels that Prescott was given to unnecessary simile and repetitions, while he was
                    at his best in the "tableau, the sweeping panorama, the grand procession" (p. 44).
                    He dissects one of Prescott's paragraphs with considerable candor, and anyone concerned
                    with writing history can profit by this analytic example. In short, Levin sees Prescott as a product
                    of his times with all its vices and virtues. His work is the "epitome of romantic
                    art" (p. 45).
            The remaining essays are bibliographic in character. Guillermo Lohman Villena explores the sources
                    used by Prescott in his History of the Conquest of Peru, while C. Harvey Gardiner
                    demonstrates the historian's reliance on the Spaniard, Pascual de Gayangos y Arce, in
                    collecting his source materials. Jerry E. Patterson provides a check list of all the works bearing
                    on the life and writings of Prescott. The editors have also included many interesting contemporary
                    reviews of Prescott's books.
            Whatever the criticisms of Prescott's writing, however, it should be pointed out that he is
                    still read after one hundred years with pleasure and profit. Will the same be said of many
                    historians writing today?
            
               Indiana University Robert E. Quirk
         
         
            
               Frontier Ways: Sketches of Life in the Old West. By Edward Everett Dale.
                    (Austin: University of 
                        Texas
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xiv, 265. Illustrations, index. $4.50.)
            This rather small book is a collection of articles that Edward Everett Dale has produced over the
                    years. Publication has been in such varied journals and magazines as the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review, American Hereford Journal,
                        Journal of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society, and Indiana Magazine of History.
                    These articles (twelve in all) have been printed in a single illustrated volume, and their value in
                    chapter form is uniformly high. As Dale points out in the Preface, there is considerable basis for
                    scholarly research in the "Indian-Pioneer Papers" at the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     library. The author admits that his own twenty-five years on the 
                  Oklahoma-Texas
                frontier has given him considerable experience which is reflected in
                    these pages. Perhaps the greatest value in the essays comes from Dale's own experience
                    tempered by his training under Frederick Jackson Turner as a professional historian.
            
               Frontier Ways should have considerable appeal to the general reader. It is well
                    written, and, having first appeared as separate articles, the chapters do not depend upon one
                    another, a fact that the spare-moment reader will appreciate. These chapters do not describe life in
                    the romantic glow of cowboys' campfires, nor do they tell of great wealth, nor of saloon
                    gunfights. The discomforts and adjustments of simple settlers in the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West are presented. The members of this largely unsung group are not even treated as
                    individuals  but as almost a class. Descriptions of their
                    struggles, their rewarded efforts, their simple enjoyments, their habits and prejudices, and their
                    attempts to make monotonously simple foods attractive can be found in these pages. Dr. Dale
                    describes some of the pioneers' attempts to found and participate in literary societies. He
                    shows a familiarity with their preventatives and medical cures in a land where life was frequently
                    difficult and even inadequate medical aid difficult to obtain. The plain, everyday life of the
                    homesteader and settler is delightfully examined. Recipes with a sturdy sound to them are to be
                    found in the chapter on cowboy cookery. They will definitely never appear in slimming-diet
                    cookbooks. The people Dr. Dale knew in the West around the turn of the twentieth century were more
                    concerned with getting enough nourishing and reasonably varied food to support the tremendous energy
                    they expended than they were with maintaining trim figures.
            This little volume is an experience most readers will enjoy. The illustrations by Malcolm Thrugood
                    are pleasant and folksy but add little to the book. Frontier Ways is real, for it is Edward Everett
                    Dale, a man who, though a good professional historian, saw the American frontier pass.
            
               
                  
                            Colorado
                         College D. P. Greene
         
         
            
               Quakers and the Atlantic Culture. By Frederick B. Tolles. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1960. Pp. xiii, 160. Notes, index. $3.95.)
            The author's reputation as one of the leading historians and interpreters of Quakerism is
                    reinforced by this volume concerning 
                        Quaker
                     beliefs and practices and Quakerism's relationship to its social and
                    intellectual environment during the course of the historical and cultural changes of three
                    centuries. Tolles has brought together here a series of seven of his published essays and addresses
                    from over a fifteen-year period on subjects so closely related that little more than a foreword and
                    introductory paragraphs to each chapter were needed to make the collection a unified whole.
            The term "Atlantic Community" was coined in our time to include all those countries
                    bordering on the North Atlantic with closely interwoven historical and cultural relationships. The
                    ties of international Quakerism have been so close that Tolles follows other 
                        Quaker
                     historians in looking on English, Irish, and American Quakers as one community. The
                    binding ties and media of communication have been the traveling ministry, the exchange of epistles
                    between Meetings, the dissemination of a wealth of 
                        Quaker
                     literature, and, in more recent times, joint humanitarian projects.
            As history this volume is topical rather than comprehensive. While references are made, for instance,
                    to separations among Friends, the author supplies little detail and, surprisingly, makes no
                    reference to Elias Hicks, Joseph John Gurney, and John Wilbur, whose opposing ideas rocked
                    nineteenth-century Quakerism on both sides of the Atlantic, creating in this country schisms which
                    are still only partly healed. Other aspects of 
                        Quaker
                     principles and history such as great humani- 
                    tarian activities and traditional opposition to war and military eervice Tolles frankly leaves to
                    other historians.
            Distinguishing marks of Tolled treatment are his emphasis on the 
                        Puritan
                     rather than the mystical origins of the Society of Friends and on the corporate life of
                    the group rather than on individual experience. A valuable feature of this volume is the treatment
                    of characteristic aspects of the 
                        Quaker
                    : his attitudes—rooted in 
                        Quaker
                     principles— toward politics, business, scientific research, and the arts.
                    Tolles also discusses the effect of these attitudes on individual and cultural development,
                    recognizing that until recent times the repressive attitude toward the fine arts has limited
                    achievement in that area. Yet, "whatever their failures in practice," concludes
                    Tolles, "it was given them to glimpse a vision of perfection and, by striving to achieve it
                    within the conditions of their culture, to hold it up as a goal for the Atlantic Community of their
                    day and ours. That is the real historical significance of the Quakers in the civilization of the
                    Atlantic world" (p. 133).
            Trustworthy scholarship, clear thinking, and lucid writing make the book valuable to anyone who would
                    like to add to his knowledge in this area.
            
               Earlham College Opal Thornburg
         
         
            
               Roman Catholicism and the American Way of Life. Edited by Thomas T. McAvoy.
                    (Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 1960. Pp. viii, 248. Index. $4.50.)
            In the 
                        United States
                     where many of the aspects of a pluralistic society are obvious, few endeavors would
                    appear to be more needed than a bringing together of men of sincerity and good will to seek mutual
                    understanding regarding their diverse traditions and differing ideologies. In such a spirit,
                    non-Catholics and Catholics have contributed to this volume in which most of the essays presented
                    are the product of two symposia held at the University of Notre Dame under the auspices of the
                    Department of History and the Faculty Seminar in American Civilization. The first half of the volume
                    deals with the general position of Roman Catholics in the 
                        United States
                     and discusses the overall present-day religious situation, the position of the Catholic
                    minority in the country, and important problems faced by Catholics in the 
                        United States
                    . The second half deals with the adaptation of the immigrant Catholic to the American
                    scene.
            The volume is generally imbued with a truly objective spirit. Indeed, one of the contributors, Will
                    Herberg, of Drew University, in his effort to present an unbiased analysis of the
                    "thoroughgoing secularization" of religion in the 
                        United States
                     (p. 13), may have overstated his case and minimized the tenacity (especially in
                    churches of Catholic, Lutheran, and Calvinistic backgrounds) with which the teachings and values of
                    the Judaeo-Christian tradition are vigorously cherished.
            To this reviewer, the high quality of most of the essays is not attained in that by the French
                    Dominican, R. L. Bruckberger. He ap-  pears to be strangely
                    inconsistent and narrowly intolerant. On the same page (p. 42) he states that non-Catholic Americans
                    most often "hardly know what to think" religiously, and then he declares that
                    almost all of them "believe in God and in the principal mysteries of Christianity,
                    including the divinity of Christ." He apparently, moreover, has never been able to sense
                    the admirable qualities of American Puritanism along with its excesses. Therefore, he is led to
                    write: "The whole world, with the possible exception of South America, is now dominated by
                    Puritanism and this is a terrible danger" (p. 47). He further attributes to Puritanism
                    "the segregation between men and women, a thing which is so striking in America"
                    (p. 47), yet surely Puritanism never sanctioned the sex "segregation" which is a
                    part of the way of life of his own Dominican order. He also apparently fails to appreciate the
                    extent to which so-called 
                        Puritan
                     tendencies in the 
                        United States
                     stem from Irish Roman Catholicism as well 89 from the spiritual heirs of Calvin and
                    Knox. Yet, Father McAvoy has shown his breadth of spirit in presenting the personal judgments of men
                    as diverse in viewpoint as Dr. Herberg and Father Bruckberger.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State University Francis P. Weisenburger
         
         
            
               The End of American Innocence: A Study of the First Years of Our Own Tim,
                    1912-1917. By Henry F. May. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1959. Pp. xv, 412, xvii. Bibliographical essay, index.
                    $5.75.)
            Customarily the first World War is regarded as a watershed in recent American history dividing
                    modern, contemporary culture formed in the whirligig decade of the twenties from the bygone
                    placidity of the nineteenth century. Henry May has challenged this view with a close inspection of
                    the years preceding America's entry into the war. He chooses 1912 as the watershed year,
                    with the dinner celebrating Howells' seventy-fifth birthday as symbol of the climacteric of
                    traditional American values: moralism, faith in progress, faith in culture— respectable
                    culture. Eastern universities and book and magazine publishers as well as interior strongholds of
                    cultural tradition in the 
                        South, California
                    , and the Midwest endorsed and cherished these values. But the doubts and shafts of
                    naturalists, relativists, Freudians, bohemians, and radical socialists punctured American optimism
                    and confidence even before the postwar disillusionment.
            May ranges broadly over literature, the social sciences and politics, European influences, and
                    American centers of intellectual rebellion, such as the 
                        Chicago
                     of Harriet Monroe's Poetry and 
                        New York
                    's Greenwich Village. On the older phase of intellectual dissent, beginning
                    about 1890, his discussion deals chiefly with new currents of social science lapping at traditional
                    absolutes. The pragmatism of James and Dewey, the behavioristic psychology of John Broadus Watson,
                    the scientific history of Robinson and Beard, and the scientific management of Frederick W. Taylor
                    fall within this rubric. The later wave of rebellion, which started about 1912, emphasizes poets,
                    critics, editors, and publishers. Now sound out the new voices who will be heard so  prominently in the postwar years: Mencken slashing at American cultural
                    pretensions in the Smart Set, Van Wyck Brooks heralding a sober American maturity,
                    Amy Lowell speaking for emancipated poetry and women, Walter Lippmann bringing Freud and Marx into
                    politics, Emma Goldman with her communism, and Margaret Sanger with her birth control, and many
                    more, slicing and hammering at nineteenth century faiths. When war came, the intellectuals reacted
                    differently, and some like Dewey and Veblen and Mencken swallowed hard before lending their support. 
                        Randolph
                     Bourne moved from literary optimism to a hard and acid realism. Innocence had ended by
                    1917.
            In pushing up the end of innocence by a decade, May has called attention to a fertile and fermenting
                    six years before the war. He has accomplished a feat in synthesizing social philosophies and
                    literary currents ordinarily kept in the separate compartments of the social sciences and
                    humanities, and further, in giving personalities to the institutions that support ideas, the
                    universities and magazines and publishing houses. One question that intrudes itself is whether the
                    end of innocence did not arrive even earlier than 1912. If the older dissenters have to be traced
                    back to 1890, the watershed that divides modern times from nineteenth century optimism may belong in
                    the nineteenth century itself. By the 1880's the new social sciences had arisen; the
                    depression of 1873 and the reformers that came after, from George to Gronlund, were shaking
                    traditional American dogmas. Howells himself embraced socialism. Literary realism seemed as
                    rebellious as the later naturalism now appears. Sandburg today is as venerable a symbol as Howells
                    was in 1912, and his own radicalism of 1912-1917 is now the purest respectability.
            The method of writing intellectual history, still a new field for American history, poses the problem
                    of how much to include. If the historian of ideas is encylopedic, as is Merle Curti in The Growth of American Thought, he cannot discuss ideas in any detail. If he emphasizes
                    systems of thought, as does Stow Persons in American Minds, he necessarily
                    excludes many currents of thought and cultural processes for transmitting ideas. May has tended to
                    use the inclusive approach and has introduced a full roster of rebels and dissenters. As a
                    consequence, treatment is descriptive rather than speculative, and the ideas of Freud or T. S. Eliot
                    or Woodrow Wilson are presented in capsule form. As one technique to epitomize the thought of the
                    intellectuals he discusses, May uses a succinct quotation of one or two sentences from their works.
                    The technique is suggestive, but it also underlines the difficulty of giving satisfactory individual
                    attention to a crowded canvas.
            
               Indiana University Richard M. Dorson
         
         
            
               The American Constitution. By C. Herman Pritchett. McGraw-Hill
                        Series in Political Science. Edited by Joseph P. Harris. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. xiv, 719. Selected references, appendices,
                    indices. $10.75.)
            After a generation during which Professor E. S. Corwin has declared that a "Constitution of
                    Rights, both State rights and private rights, has been replaced to a great extent by a Constitution
                    of Powers," there is a dearth of comprehensive surveys of the field of American  constitutional law. Good casebooks abound, and a number of valuable
                    studies of the Supreme Court are available; but until The American Constitution
                    appeared, the bulky and rather technical Constitution of the 
                            United States
                         of America: Analysis and Interpretation (
                        Washington
                    , 1952) was virtually alone in the field of general constitutional analysis. The latter
                    reference, prepared under the editorship of Professor Corwin, undoubtedly remains the best single
                    purchase in the field by virtue of its combination of comprehensiveness and modest cost. The American Constitution offers, however, a conciseness and a clarity of
                    exposition and analysis that make it far more usable for either textual or general use than the
                    Corwin volume.
            
               The American Constitution follows the usual pattern in its topical breakdown of the
                    subject. Professor Pritchett's study is characterized, however, by the elimination of
                    relatively insignificant judicial decisions and other materials which frequently serve more to
                    clutter than enhance analysis. Particularly fruitful is his introductory section in which he
                    presents a brief constitutional sketch of the pre-convention period and sets forth his own
                    philosophy of constitutional interpretation. The subsequent exposition and analysis of
                    constitutional doctrine is lucid and in the scholarly tradition of the author's numerous
                    writings.
            Even in as careful a study as this the reader should remain aware that he is dealing with commentary
                    and not with actual texts. Dependence upon the former alone, however able the analysis, may on
                    occasion offer some risks. The disadvantages of commentary can be compounded in the area of
                    constitutional law by the speed with which any commentary is out of date. Professor
                    Pritchett's brief summary of 
                        
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                     v. Nelson (pp. 65 and 461), for example, does not make clear that the state
                    of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was restrained only in an endeavor to prosecute for sedition against the 
                        United States
                     and was not limited in any power to defend itself from injury. While this point is
                    clearly set forth in 
                        
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                     v. Nelson (although ignored in many of the ill-tempered attacks against this
                    holding), it has been made more explicit in Uphaus v. Wyman
                    (1959) since the publication of the present study.
            Perhaps of greatest interest for the general public in these times is the philosophy of
                    constitutional interpretation and of the role of the Supreme Court that is developed throughout the
                    text. Answering those who would strait-jacket the solution of national problems by an excessive
                    deference to the past, the author presents what he chooses to call the "experiential
                    approach" to constitutional interpretation. In the spirit of such justices as Marshall and
                    Holmes, and drawing directly upon the latter, Professor Pritchett considers the Constitution
                    "more as a political than as a legal document. It considers current understandings as
                    relevant as the debates of the Constitutional Convention…. The goal of constitutional
                    interpretation … is the achieving of consensus as to the current
                    meaning of the document framed in 1787 … while still recognizing guidelines derived
                    from the written document and philosophy of limited governmental power which it sought to
                    express" (pp. 46-47).
            The Supreme Court is counseled "to reach constitutional issues reluctantly and to be chary
                    of disagreeing with legislatures or executives, whether state or national" (p. 154). But
                    the right of each generation to adapt the Constitution to its needs is limited "to the
                    extent that  such adaptations are reconcilable with the language
                    of the Constitution" (p. 47). Within such limits the author finds occasion to be critical
                    of the work of the Supreme Court, both for engaging too freely in the determination of questions
                    best left to the political branches of the government (p. 281) and for an evasion of its duty in
                    other instances by too free a resort to such shields as "political questions" (p.
                    154).
            
               The American Constitution comes nearer than any recent constitutional survey to
                    following in the tradition of W. W. Willoughby's classic commentary, The
                        Constitutional Law of the 
                            United States
                        
               , published earlier in this century. It will have a broad use.
            
               Indiana University Warner O. Chapman
         
         
            
               Political Theory: The Foundations of Twentieth-Century Political Thought. By
                    Arnold Brecht. (
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        N.J.
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1959. Pp. xviii, 603. Appendix, supplementary bibliography, indices.
                    $12.00.)
            Arnold Brecht, professor emeritus of the Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science, New School
                    for Social Research, has had a long and distinguished career as a scholar, political administrator,
                    and political advisor. He was notably successful as a civil servant under the Weimar Republic, and
                    after fleeing 
                        Germany
                     in 1933 he began to make a series of notable contributions to the field of political
                    science. The work under review, while not intended to be his final book, is a fitting capstone to
                    his scholarly career, for it is a work that shows great learning and insight.
            Professor Brecht is concerned with scientific political theory rather than with the
                    crosscurrents of contemporary political and social ideologies. His objective is to provide a
                    systematic statement of the philosophical and methodological foundations of present scientific
                    political theory while, at the same time, tracing the genesis of the efforts to develop such a body
                    of theory. The organization of the book entails an initial statement of the primary elements of
                    scientific method, including a careful and extremely lucid statement of scientific value relativism.
                    The latter statement includes a special case study treatment of the impact of scientific value
                    relativism upon traditional theories of justice. The initial value and methodological considerations
                    are succeeded by a rich series of essays dealing with the historical origins of present scientific
                    orientations towards the study of man in society. This historical excursion is followed by a careful
                    consideration of the views of contemporary critics on efforts to construct a science of politics,
                    with particular attention given to criticisms of scientific value relativism.
            This volume is to be commended upon many grounds. Professor Brecht is eminently fair in treatment of
                    intellectual positions with which he does not agree. He does not set up any straw men, and he fully
                    grasps the nature of the arguments which he aims to refute or modify. His own analytical ability is
                    of a very high order, and he is particularly adept at selecting the right illustration and the
                    appropriate phrase. The breadth of his scholarship is great. He knows the relevant literature,
                    including minor works as well as those of major importance. (The notes to each of the chapters will
                    provide enough references to sources to provide a decade of fruitful reading for any graduate
                    student.)  Not only does Professor Brecht know the relevant
                    literature, but he also has the ability to guide the reader through the tortuously tangled trail of
                    twentieth-century philosophical and scientific controversy without leading him through unnecessarily
                    roundabout paths. This volume is, for that reason, probably the best introduction to the origins and
                    development of modern social sciences now in existence. All in all, this is a work of major
                    proportions which deserves the careful attention of all social scientists, historians, and social
                    philosophers.
            
               Indiana University Byrum E. Carter
         
         
            
               The Long Way to Freedom. By James T. Shotwell. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1960. Pp. 639. Index. $7.50.)
            The difficulties in employing a comprehensive survey of history to establish any set principle or
                    view, both in regard to the mastery of so much information and to the nearly impossible intellectual
                    acumen required to let the facts speak for themselves rather than to the issues concerned, have
                    frequently been illustrated before and are again shown here in Professor Shotwell's book.
                    This work is more than a survey of facts, however, and it should be judged primarily by the validity
                    and the accomplishment of its intent. This intent is to demonstrate that the rule of reason is the
                    only basis upon which civilization may find true freedom and avert utter stalemate or oblivion. For
                    Shotwell the rule of reason is more than logic since it must also account for irrational factors
                    governing human response and activity, and because inexorable and complete logic cannot envision the
                    compromise of conflicting interest in which justice is defined.
            To document this theme the author appeals to the full scope of human history. He draws the obvious
                    lessons that only history explains the transient present since in many ways it is the substance of
                    the present. Shotwell goes on, however, as one of the main objectives in the book to insist that
                    freedom defined as acceptance of responsibility is the result of man's historical
                    emancipation from spiritual, social, and economic oppression by breakthroughs achieved in the advent
                    of religion, the rise of politics and economics, and, ironically, the use of war. Yet, each of these
                    emancipating factors has obviously been the instrument of further oppression in itself, except for
                    the few creative periods when reason did temporarily prevail. Finally, mankind now faces its
                    greatest challenge, the necessity of adjusting to the machine as we turn to a new and unique era
                    requiring. us to "think our way through rather than grapple with nature by animal
                    strength" (p. 577).
            Those of us who are unable to attempt the writing of such a book should be careful in our criticisms
                    of it, but it seems clear that Shotwell's use of antiquity is based on an acquaintance
                    gained in his youth and uncorrected by the voluminous later literature which could be used to
                    challenge many of his factual assumptions about the ancient world. One example illustrating this
                    point is his acceptance of slavery as the basis of ancient economic life. One is tempted to reveal
                    author's and reviewer's weaknesses alike with the old cliche: he is far better in
                    the area of his own immense scholarly contribution, modern international relations, than he is in
                    the fields of ancient and medieval  history. But there are
                    points of argument with which to disagree as well. In his appraisal of Christian ethics, what of the
                    essential pessimism in regard to the amelioration of social ills in Christ's statement (St.
                    John 8:32), "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free"? This
                    pronouncement is surcharged with meaning in the study of freedom's development. The case
                    might have been well argued from antiquity; it is more effectively shown in this book from modern
                    history.
            Further, there are indications of haste in the preparation of this work, e.g., the poor explanation
                    for the observation that justice cannot be established in isolation: "it is in the
                    relations with other people that the animal mind tends to reassert itself" (p. 25); or the
                    evaluation of the Roman Republic as the "only creative period" for Roman history
                    (p. 131) when compared with the latter accomplishment of the ius gentium cited on
                    p. 606. It is perhaps only quibbling to point out the frequent faulty spelling of
                    "millennium," finally correct on p. 576, or the "Constane" for
                    "Constantine" on p. 143, but one feels Shotwell's purpose would have been
                    better served by more time and care, which his position as Bryce Professor Emeritus of International
                    Relations at 
                        Columbia
                     and his long career of research and writing and direct work for peace would merit.
            
               Indiana University John W. Snyder
         
         
            
               Prospects of a Golden Age. By John Dos Passos. (Englewood Cliffs, 
                        N.J.
                    : Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1959, Pp. xvi, 271. Illustrations, index. $7.50.)
            
               Prospects of a Golden Age is history, Book of the Month Club style. Written by the
                    novelist, John Dos Passos, this volume bears the traces of his craft. With Thomas Carlyle, Dos
                    Passos sees only great men at the bottom of history. Prospects of a Golden Age
                    tells the story of the Revolutionary generation by picturing its great men at work at their chosen
                    crafts or professions. It includes chapters on surveyors, sailors, painters, lawyers, writers,
                    explorers, architects, and mechanics. The author achieves an ironic effect by describing George
                    Washington surveying in the wilderness and Thomas Jefferson pleading a case before a county court,
                    both unaware of their future greatness. This artistic device at times plays havoc with chronology.
                    The author is the slave of the colorful and dramatic to such an extent that Alexander Hamilton
                    receives less attention than John Ledyard, the eccentric explorer. The great men of history as they
                    appear in these pages have almost none of the faults of men and most of the virtues of angels. Such
                    characterization is neither history nor good fiction, for even the novel, as the author should know,
                    must have its villain as well as its hero. The Revolutionary generation as drawn by Dos Passos was
                    composed of practical dreamers who worked to raise a civilization in the wilderness, yet they found
                    time to dream of a golden age when the country they were constructing would stand at the front of
                    the community of nations. Dos Passos has nothing new to say, but he tells an old story in a way
                    which will intrigue the layman and embarrass the scholar.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Wesleyan University Joseph C. Burke
         
         
         
            
               American Automobile Manufacturers: The First Forty Years. By John B. Rae. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Chilton Co., 1959. Pp. xii, 223. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            John Bell Rae, now associate professor of history at the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Institute of Technology, has written a book that will be received with mixed feelings
                    by historians, economists, and students of business history. The book is obviously a labor of love.
                    It is well written and, within the obvious limits of its objective, fulfills a need. Those of us in
                    middle age or later will feel many a nostalgic twinge as we discover what happened to the Overland,
                    Marmon, Moon, Essex, Stutz, and all the other wonderful cars we knew as children.
            Professor Rae has spun out his story of the first forty years of the automobile industry with grace
                    and style, putting it together in such a way that the reader will make his way through this
                    relatively short book with a gratifying sense of remembering what happened. The
                    author has a firm, comfortable grasp of his materials and handles exquisitely the details of growth
                    and change in the many companies of the early industry.
            In the very word "detail," however, the economic and business historian will find a
                    key to the one indisputable defect of this book. The author simply does not impose on his facts a
                    theory of industrial concentration that enables the reader to see why the automobile industry
                    acquired its present oligopoly structure. To be sure, he speaks of "the inevitability of
                    bigness in American automobile manufacturing" (p. 198), and here and there we have
                    statements attributing ultimate big-three domination to lower costs, greater staying power in
                    depression, and readier adaptability of the large firm. But of course anyone can make these
                    inferences without any reference to history. It is the job of the historian to tell us, after a look
                    at the records, how and why the large firm gained its ascendancy over the small. Specifically, from
                    a study like this we should learn what forces determine the optimum size of the firm. For example,
                    is E. A. G. Robinson's classification of technological, managerial, financial, marketing,
                    and risk forces a useful one? Does the change in the number of firms from hundreds at the beginning
                    of the twentieth century to more than a hundred in the early 1920's to five in the late
                    1950's demonstrate the usefulness of the "planning curve" as a concept of
                    economic theory? Does the change in structure of the automobile industry from one approaching the
                    norm of competition to that of an oligopoly so demonstrate the inevitability of bigness that
                    enforcement of the antitrust laws is meaningless? It is to questions such as these that someone must
                    ultimately address himself; indeed, Professor Rae may intend to do so in another volume.
            But perhaps this criticism is not fair. After all, the title of the book is American
                        Automobile Manufacturers. Men, not economic forces, are presumably the author's
                    concern, and for his treatment of men we must give him high marks. Most readers will be helped by
                    the skillful way in which the founders of the industry are brought to life, and Hoosier readers in
                    particular will be engrossed by Rae's treatment of the middle Westerners and their roles in
                    the early industry. Professor Rae's handling of the reasons for geographical concentration
                    of the industry in the Great Lakes region is persuasive, though it is still not
                    altogether clear why 
                        Detroit
                     and its environs should become the great  center of
                    automobile manufacturing unless we are willing to admit that pure chance often determines the course
                    of events. Certainly the fire that caused R. E. Olds to recoup his losses by producing nothing but
                    the curved-dash runabout, the first "merry Oldsmobile" and the first car to sell
                    in quantity, was fortuitous. It was likewise fortuitous that Detroit should be the home of Henry
                    Ford, who insisted that a light car could be made to run on America's abominable roads and
                    who "put 
                        Detroit
                     finally and unchallengeably ahead of any competitor" (p. 60).
            Mr. Rae's book will do for all of us what a good history book should do. It outlines a way
                    to work through complex and turgid detail, and it furnishes a small encyclopedia for handy
                    reference. More than this, the book gives us in its necessary abstraction from reality an
                    intelligent and perceptive look at what happened, a look that will help a good many of us to
                    understand better this great episode in American economic history.
            
               Indiana University Ross M. Robertson
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana's Abandoned Railrods. Part I, Abandoned Railroads of 
                            Bedford
                        . By Elmer G. Sulzer. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Council for Local History, 1959. Pp. 48. Illustrations, maps, charts, lists of
                    sources. Paperbound, $2.50.) This work gives its emphasis to abandoned steam railroads of
                    the 
                        Bedford
                     area, especially the line from Dark Hollow, near 
                        Bedford
                    , to Switz City. The seven lines here discussed were all associated with the growth of
                    the limestone business. Sulzer offers numerous details regarding their incorporation, construction,
                    maintenance, finance, and operation, as well as their abandonment. Pictures of trains, stations,
                    bridges, and right-of-ways, along with the reproduction of various schedules, add information both
                    useful and interesting. The author has apparently devoted much study to lines discussed, and
                    doubtless he knows more about his subject than does any other person. Nevertheless, the value of his
                    work would be more adequately safeguarded through the years if his sources were more precisely
                    pinpointed. Moreover, Sulzer should have winnowed his evidence more thoroughly than he has to make
                    very clear to readers which part of his account is history and which part is story and legend. The
                    subtitle of this volume indicates that the author plans to publish subsequent studies of abandoned
                    steam railroads in Indiana.
            
               Electric Railroads of Indiana. By Jerry Marlette. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Council for Local History, 1959. Pp. 158. Illustrations, map, appendix, bibliography.
                    Paperbound, $4.00.) Jerry Marlette offers an overview of electric railroads in Indiana
                    with emphasis on the period from 1900, when the first such line entered 
                        Indianapolis
                    , through the 1940's, the decade which marked the virtual disappearance of
                    electric lines from the Hoosier scene. Observing that street railways in this state began during the
                    Civil War when mule power was used to propel them, he notes that the first successful electric
                    street railway line commenced at 
                        South Bend
                     in 1885. Within a decade such lines replaced most of the mule- or horse-drawn railways.
                    The expansion from urban railways to "interurbans" evolved in the 1890's,
                    several such lines having  been established prior to 1898 when
                    the line between Anderson and 
                        Alexandria
                    , often termed the first interurban in Indiana, was opened. The rapid expansion of
                    electric lines soon made 
                        Indianapolis
                     one of the leading interurban centers of the country. By World War I, however,
                    abandonments had already begun, and the long decline and successive abandonments continued until the
                    system was largely gone by the early 1940's. Although the competition of automobiles,
                    buses, and trucks is recognized as an important factor in the decline of the electric railroads,
                    much emphasis is placed on overcapitalization as an important factor which contributed to their
                    waning. Marlette has obviously done massive research regarding the interurbans of Indiana, and he
                    includes numerous pictures to illustrate his account; but he modestly insists that this is in no
                    sense a complete or definite story. His Preface announces that histories of various individual lines
                    are in progress. It is hoped that in these histories Marlette will make more clear his sources and
                    thus augment the value of his writing in a field which needs additional plowing and thoughtful
                    study.
            
               English's Opera House. By William George Sullivan. Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, Volume XX, Number 3. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1960. Pp. 333-378. Illustrations. Paper-bound,
                    $1.00.) From the time of its erection in 1880 until its razing in 1948,
                    English's Opera House was one of the principal landmarks of "the Circle"
                    in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . During the Civil War, William H. English moved his family from southern Indiana to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the capital city this Democratic political leader—who was also banker,
                    real estate operator, and historian—became one of its distinguished citizens and was
                    nominated for the vice-presidency on the Democratic ticket with General Hancock in 1880. Early in
                    that same year, English had announced his intention of building a theatre upon property which he
                    owned on the northwest segment of the Circle. The new building, long known as the English Opera
                    House, was given to English's son Will. This booklet results from "a paper read
                    before the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club, March 5, 1951," by the late William George Sullivan. It
                    describes the English Opera House, indicates programs which appeared there, details various of Will
                    English's antics in pursuit of romance, etc. Sullivan presents an interesting account of
                    the English Opera House, and he also indicates that 
                        Indianapolis
                     has been indebted to the English family for various benefactions.
            "History of Culver Military Academy, 1894-1956." Volume I. By Charles C. Mather.
                    (Culver, Ind., 1959. Pp. 122, 6. Appendix, index.) Charles C. Mather, who has been associated with
                    Culver Military Academy for approximately four decades, is well qualified to write a history of the
                    academy. Mather stresses that Culver is "indigenous to the Middle West and by the same
                    token is peculiarly American, for if today any section of our country more than another represents
                    those special qualities and characteristics that identify us as American, surely it is found in the
                    great valley of the 
                        Mississippi
                    " (p. 1). Mather reviews the historical development of the area around Lake
                    Max-inkuckee; the high lights of the career of Henry Harrison Culver, founder of the Academy; the
                    Culver Park Assembly or chautauqua project of the late 1880's and early 1890's;
                    and then the founding of Culver Military Academy in 1894. Most of his history, however, portrays  the development and growth of Culver since its founding. The
                    high academic standards of this secondary institution are stressed. The picture which Mather paints
                    of Culver is generally favorable, but at times critical evaluations are made of persons and
                    policies. Since 1933 the academy has been owned and operated by the Culver Military Foundation.
            
               Catalog of the David Demaree Banta Indiana Collection. Edited by Robert Y. Coward
                    and Hester H. Coward. (
                        Franklin
                    , Ind.: 
                        Franklin
                     College, 1960. Pp. 36. Illustrations, index. Paperbound.) This catalog was prepared for
                    distribution in connection with the dedication of the David Demaree Banta Indiana Collection at 
                        Franklin
                     College, April 30, 1960, by the Indiana Delta Chapter of Phi Delta Theta upon the one
                    hundredth anniversary of its founding. David Demaree Banta was a native of 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana. During the 1850's he attended both 
                        Franklin
                     College and Indiana University; in 1860 he helped establish the Indiana Delta Chapter
                    of Phi Delta Theta at 
                        Franklin
                     College. Banta established a notable record as a lawyer, local historian, and professor
                    of law at Indiana Univerity prior to his death in 1896. This collection honoring him, which
                    apparently already exceeds one thousand volumes, is an appropriate and valuable memorial.
            
               Life of Abraham Lincoln. Facsimile edition. By W. D. Howells. Introduction by Clyde
                    C. Walton. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1960. Pp. xxxii, 94. Frontispiece, index. $6.00.)
                    This volume is a facsimile edition of William D. Howells' laudatory campaign biography of
                    Abraham Lincoln and is reproduced with annotations made by Lincoln, Howells, an editorial writer on
                    the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State Journal, 
                        Columbus
                    , was only twenty-three years of age when this biography was published. Though Howells
                    is known as a realist, his biography of Lincoln was written in the traditional manner of campaign
                    biographies. Presumably, Howells was realistic enough to know that some romance was expected in this
                    kind of writing. Howells' biography was published less than two months after
                    Lincoln's nomination. The unique value of this new edition arises from its inclusion of
                    corrections and comments added by Lincoln during the campaign. Samuel C. Parks, a lawyer and
                    neighbor of Lincoln at 
                        Springfield
                    , owned the copy which Lincoln used for this purpose. Parks had been an early student at
                    Indiana University and a former resident of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. Lincoln's additions are significant, but Clyde C. Walton's
                    statement that "since Lincoln was a conscientious workman, we can assume that everything in
                    Howells' book which he did not correct was of an accuracy acceptable to him" (p.
                    vii) is neither a logical conclusion nor consistent with related and known facts to the contary.
                    Howells' volume originally appeared as Lives and Speeches of Abraham Lincoln
                        and Hannibal Hamlin, but only the biography of Lincoln with his own annotations are
                    produced here. Also included are the Editor's Preface to a 1938 edition, which relates the
                    history of the volume, and an eyewitness account of the 1860 Republican National Convention, by
                    Murat Halstead, from his Caucuses of 1860.
            American Economic History. Eighth edition. By Harold Underwood Faulkner. Harper's Historical
                    Sm'es. Edited by Guy Stanton Ford. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, Pubs., 1960. Pp. xxv, 816. Maps, illustrations,  graphs, charts, bibliography, index. $7.00.) Professor
                    Faulkner's eighth edition of his well-known economic history of the 
                        United States
                     is not substantially different from the seventh edition which appeared in 1954.
                    Nevertheless, changes have been included, and the addition of Alaska and 
                        Hawaii
                     to the Union has resulted in textual adaptations here and there. Faulkner includes
                    considerable political, cultural, and diplomatic history, though his emphasis is naturally upon
                    economic developments. This volume exhibits the author's broad understanding of American
                    economic history, and it is quite readable. Faulkner's opinions and views are often frankly
                    expressed, but his text is packed with much essential information. A Historg of the Newspapers of 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , 1829-1920. By Louis W. Doll. Wayne State University Studies, History, Number 5. (
                        Detroit
                    : Wayne State University Press, 1959. Pp. viii, 174. Illustrations, notes, appendices,
                    index. Paperbound, $2.50.) Louis W. Doll has written an account covering the development
                    of newspapers in 
                  Ann Arbor, Michigan
               , from the birth of the Western Emigrant in 1829
                    until 1920, which excepts only papers connected with 
                        Michigan
                     University. Since the Western Emigrant was 
                        Ann Arbor
                    's initial organ, more than usual space is given to it and its successors.
                    Attention is also given to Democratic, Whig, and Republican papers of the pre-Civil War era, and
                    there are separate chapters on German and daily newspapers. The contrast between the pioneer
                    newspapers of 
                        Ann Arbor
                    -and of mid-western towns generally-and contemporary newspapers in small cities and
                    towns is indeed significant. Especially important, as illustrated in this account of 
                        Ann Arbor
                     papers, is the contrast between the personal journalism which reflected the
                    individualism of pioneer editors and the generally tepid, institutionalized, and impersonal
                    journalism of small towns and cities of recent decades. Moreover, those persons who think that the
                    midwestern pioneers were unconcerned about what happened outside their immediate communities should
                    read carefully a random selection of a few dozen newspapers from the states of the Old Northwest in
                    the pre-Civil War era. Histories similar to Doll's should be written for dozens of early
                    midwestern towns, such as 
                        Madison
                    , 
                  New Albany, Evansville, Terre Haute
               ,
                            
                  Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, Richmond, Logansport, South Bend,
                            Lafayette, Goshen
               , and Peru. Newspaper histories would be especially appropriate
                    theses for would-be newspapermen and editors. Laws of the Creek Nation. Edited by Antonio J. Waring.
                    University of 
                        Georgia
                    . Libraries Mkcellanea Publications, Number 1. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1960. Pp. vii, 27. Facsimiles. Paperbound, $1.00.) This item offering
                    the text of certain laws of the Creek Indians is announced as the first in a series of miscellaneous
                    publications by the University of 
                        Georgia
                     libraries. These laws afford useful information regarding the life and civilization of
                    the Creeks, the impact of American ideas and practices on Indian ideas and practices, and the
                    adamant hostility of the Creeks to joining other tribes in the trek westward across the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The Introduction, by Editor Antonio J. Waring, indicates that in dealing with the
                    Creeks Americans were too often corrupt and faithless.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
