
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 22, Issue 2, pages 101-228. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:22+issue:2+year:1926&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Last Pioneer Governor of Indiana—"Blue Jeans" Williams1
            
            HOWARD R. BURNETT, 
                        Monroe City
                    
            
            When "Blue Jeans" Williams came to Indiana in 1818, two years after the state was
                    admitted to the 
                        Union
                    , life was still primitive. The whipping post was still common. Only three circuit
                    courts were in existence, each with a judge drawing a salary of seven hundred dollars annually. The
                    duties of the governor were so light that he could be absent from his office a large part of the
                    time. The members of the Assembly were paid two dollars per day for attending the sessions at
                    Cory-don. Indians still had a claim to two-thirds of the soil of the state. Travel was dangerous and
                    was usually on foot or by horseback, the first stage line in the state not being opened until 1820.
                    Game was abundant and settlements were few and small, except in the southern part of the state.
                    Under such conditions the Williams family came into 
                        Knox County
                     to establish a home. Here they soon developed into typical pioneer Hoosiers.2
            
            Of the sixteen governors who served Indiana before 1877, fourteen were lawyers, one a gunsmith, and
                    one a newspaper man. James D. Williams, who was inaugurated January 8, 1877, was the first farmer
                    and last pioneer governor of the 
                  
                     1 This study was suggested by Dr. Logan Eaarey of Indiana University
                            in his clnss in Indiana History during the Summer Session of 1926. It was worked out in a
                            Seminar in Recent American History conducted by Dr. A. T. Volwller during the Second
                            Semester, 1926–1926.
                  
                     2 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana from Its
                            Exploration to 1860 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915). Chapter X.
               
                     state. Although most of his predecessors were born and reared
                    on a farm, none were farmers by occupation at the time of their election. None of his successors
                    were really pioneers; for by their time the true pioneer days had disappeared.3
                    James D. Williams was a typical pioneer farmer in his younger days, and was a "dirt
                    farmer" of 
                        Knox County
                     at the time of his election as Governor of Indiana, in the fall of 1876.
            Williams' paternal ancestors were of English-Welsh stock and came to 
                        Virginia
                     about 1750. His father, George Williams, after his marriage moved to 
                        Pickaway County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and here his first child, James D. Williams, was born, January 16, 1808. The elder
                    Williams lived here till the fall of 1818, when he moved to a farm a few miles north of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, in what is now 
                        Vincennes
                     Township, 
                        Knox County
                    , where a brother, who had previously settled here, helped him to become established.4
            
            Later, when James D. Williams became Governor, he was fond of telling how, at the age of ten, he had
                    made the trip from 
                        Ohio
                     on horseback, fording the shallow streams and swimming his horse across the deeper
                    ones. From his account we may infer that the Williams family, then consisting of father, mother, two
                    daughters and four sons, brought their goods on pack-horses over the trail from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    .5
            
            During the five years that James Williams lived on the farm north of 
                        Vincennes
                    , his life was like that of any typical pioneer boy of his time. When he could be spared
                    from the farm, he went to school in the pioneer log school house and acquired the "book
                    larnin" offered there. This was the extent of his school training and was equivalent to
                    that of the first five grades of the present schools.6 Life here was one of
                    extreme poverty. Clothing was of homespun material and shoes ere so hard to get that the entire
                    family went barefooted 
                  
                     3 Charles Joseph Oval. Governors of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), entire.
                  
                     4 For ancestry, see 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, Nov. 20, 1580. A short biography by T. A. Bland, M. D.
                            a Personal friend of Williams. For settlement in 
                                Knox County
                            , see 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, Sept. 19, 1873.
                  
                     5
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, Aug. 16, 1870. In public speeches, Williams often told the story of
                            his trip to Indiana.
                  
                     6 Oval, Governors of Indiana, 84.
               
                     during the summer. Each sister had but one pair of shoes and
                    stockings and they were for Sunday use only. The house was small and poorly furnished. Food, of the
                    commonest sort, consisted mainly of corn bread, mush, and wild game. Most of the game was shot by
                    his younger brothers, for James had to help his father clear the land and plant and cultivate the
                    crops. The first sieve owned by the Williams family in Indiana was made by stretching over a wooden
                    hoop a piece of deerskin, in which holes had been punched by the spindle from the spinning wheel.
                    Their tools were of the rudest sort, consisting of the ax, hoe, a wooden plow, wooden pitchforks,
                    "whang" leather harness, and a wooden harrow. Their main crop was corn. They
                    raised a few vegetables and a little patch of cotton.7
            
            In 1823, when young Williams was fifteen, the family moved to a farm in 
                        Harrison
                     Township, 
                        Knox County
                    . According to tradition, James, or "Long Jim" as he was now called,
                    became an expert hand at log rollings. He was especially skillful in dragging and placing the logs
                    with an ox team. His special virtues as an ox driver were his patience and his expert use of the
                    whip. His strength was very effective at the hand-spike, for he had developed a hardy and well knit
                    frame, with muscles kept hard as steel by pioneer labors in the woods and on the farm. James was
                    never fond of hunting and gave little time to it. During spare hours he preferred to read or to
                    visit among his neighbors. Thus he developed his powers of thought and his ability in conversation
                    to such an extent that he soon became known as a young man of more than ordinary ability. Even at
                    this early age he was noted for his honesty, industry, thrift, and an abundance of what his
                    neighbors called "horse-sense."8 Here, in 1828, George Williams died,
                    leaving a widow and six children, of whom James, then twenty, was the oldest. James immediately took
                    charge of the farm and managed it so successfully that he was able to support the family.
            During these years on the farm, "Long Jim" was mingling with the young people of
                    the neighborhood at their corn 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 3, 1877.
                  
                     8 Wllliam Wesley Wollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (Indlnnnpolin, 1883), 148.
               
                     huskings, apple bees, and dances, and building up a popularity
                    among his neighbors which he was able to maintain throughout his long life. He singled out from
                    among the girls of his acquaintance Nancy Huffman as the special object of his attentions, made love
                    to her so ardently that she accepted his suit and married him February 24, 1831. Thus, at the age of
                    twenty-three, James D. Williams took upon himself the duties of a husband in addition to the duties
                    of providing for his mother and his brother and sisters.9
            
            This union seems to have been an unusually happy one. James, from the first, gave his wife the name
                    of "Honey", and continued its use throughout the half century of their married life.10 Of the four daughters and three sons born to them, two daughters and one son
                    died in infancy. This was not an unusual occurrance in those early days of terrible infant
                    mortality. The surviving children were taught honesty, industry, and sobriety and were given the
                    full advantages of the local district schools. As they grew older, Williams became the wealthiest
                    man in his neighborhood, but to keep his children in sympathy with the democratic spirit of the
                    community, he frequently required them to go barefooted to Sunday school.11
            
            In 1836, when Williams was twenty-eight, he purchased a section of land, located along the banks of
                    Pond Creek in 
                        Harrison
                     Township, 
                        Knox County
                    . Upon it he erected a log house and moved his family there. This was his place of
                    residence throughout the remainder of his long life. In the sixties, however, the log house was torn
                    down and a story-and-a-half frame house erected upon the same site.12 Williams
                    was very successful in his farming operations and continued to add to the original section, until,
                    by the time of his election as Governor, he had built up an estate of approximately three thousand
                        acres.18
            
            
               
                  9
                  
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Western Bun, Sept. 19, 1873.
               
                  10
                  
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Commercial, Nov. 27, 1880.
               
                  11 Mrs. Ruth J. Davidson of Petersburg, Ind., a granddaughter of James D.
                        Williams, relates that her mother frequently went barefooted to Sunday school in obedience to
                        her father's orders.
               
                  12 A portion of the section containing the site of the Williams home is
                        now owned by his great-granddaughter and is known as "The Old Governor Williams
                        Homestead."
               
                  13
                  
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Western Bun, Aug. 7, 1874.
            
            
            
               Home of "Blue Jeans", Williams when he was elected Governor. The
                        little room at the left was his office; next was the living room; at the right the parlor. This
                        house, with Williams' papers in the office, burned in 1895.
            
            
            
            About 1845 Williams constructed a dam across Pond Creek a few hundred yards from his home, and
                    erected there what was probably the first grist mill in 
                        Harrison
                     Township. This dam, some two hundred yards long and six feet high, was constructed of
                    earth and logs and formed a pond covering something like fifty acres. Water stored in this pond was
                    used to operate an old fashioned turbine water wheel which furnished power to run the machinery in
                    the three-story log and frame grist mill built on the bank of the pond over the mill race.
                    Old-fashioned stone burrs were used for grain grinding,14 the lower one being
                    stationary, the upper one fastened to a shaft turned by a rawhide belt running from a pully on the
                    turbine shaft.15 No doubt this mill proved profitable, for before 1853 the toll
                    rate varied from one-sixth to one-eighth the grain ground. A law passed by the General Assembly in
                    1853 set the toll for a water mill at one-eighth the grain ground.
            A sawmill was later installed in a shed adjoining the grist mill and operated by the same power.
                    Sawing was done by an upright, sash saw, a method so slow that the workman would put the log on the
                    carriage, set the machinery in motion and go about the mill at other work, returning in time to
                    carry away the board when it was finished, and start the saw through the log again. This saw was
                    lifted by power from the water wheel, but was pulled downward by a heavy weight attached to its
                    lower end. The work at the sawmill became so heavy that a separate wheel had to be installed to
                    furnish power for its constant operation.16
            
            The necessity for help at the mill and on the farm forced Williams to hire many hands. To assist in
                    securing and keeping efficient and steady help, Williams built three double log houses in the mill
                    yard, each to be occupied by two families. Each half of each pair of houses consisted of a log room,
                    twenty-five feet square, with a lean-to kitchen in the rear and a small porch in front. With six or
                    more families in the same 
                  
                     14 One of these stones, showing the grooves for grinding grain, is now
                            used as a well cover in the yard of the former Williams premises.
                  
                     15 This description of the mill is drawn from information given by old
                            people living in the Williams community.
                  
                     16 This description of the sawmill is furnished by my father, who,
                            when a boy, frequently visited it.
               
                     yard, quarrels were sure to arise. Williams gained quite a
                    reputation for honesty, fairness, and efficiency in settling these quarrels justly and, in the main,
                    satisfactorily, when they became too serious to be settled by the participants themselves.17
            
            The Williams mill became the most important gathering place in the community. Many heated political
                    arguments took place here during the exciting political campaigns throughout the forties, fifties,
                    and sixties. It was the common meeting place for the township school board of which Williams was at
                    one time a member, and also secretary.18 Pond Creek Mills post office was
                    established here, and a stock of farm equipment was kept for sale. An effort was made to establish a
                    town about the mill site, but this was never done. The mill was kept in operation till late in the
                        seventies.19
            
            Soon after the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    , now the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad, was built, Williams and Sanford L. Niblack established a profitable pork
                    packing plant at Wheat-land, and continued its operation throughout the period of the Civil War.
                    They did quite a volume of business here, frequently shipping pork products in car load lots. The
                    growth of the large meat packing industry in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     forced them to suspend the operation of their plant in the early seventies.20
            
            Williams was vitally interested in and heartily supported the development of his community. He gave a
                    building site to the local Methodist congregation, of which his wife was an active member, and later
                    donated ground for the adjoining cemetery in which, many years afterwards, he was buried. He also
                    gave 
                        Harrison
                     Township an acre of ground in 1855, to be used as a school site and playground for the
                    school to which he sent his children.21 The Walnut Grove Methodist 
                  
                     17 Mrs. Sarah A. McCoy, who lived in one of these log houses in the
                            sixties, related her experiences to the writer.
                  
                     18 The records of the 
                                Harrison
                             Township School Trustees for 1847 and 1855 are in the Library at Indiana
                            University.
                  
                     19 James D. Williams, a grandson of Governor James D. Williams,
                            continued to operate a sawmill on this site till about 1900.
                  
                     20 This information Was furnished by John Niblack, of Wheatland, a son
                            of Sanford L. Niblack, who says he remembers seeing bacon from the Williams-Niblack plant
                            stacked in box cars like cord wood.
                  
                     21 An entry is found in the 
                                Harrison
                             Township school trustee's record for Aug. 5, 1956, accepting this
                            Rift.
               
                     Episcopal Church and the Pond Creek schoolhouse still occupy
                    the ground he gave them.
            Although he gave the land upon which the Church was erected, he never became a member of the
                    organization. In spite of the fact that he was not a member of the church, Williams was repeatedly
                    elected superintendent of the Sunday School, and served in that capacity for more than thirty
                        years.22 When Williams, as candidate for governor, was asked, "To
                    what church do you belong?" he replied, "I am not a member of any church. My
                    religion is 'Do Justice to all men'."23 He frequently spoke of
                    himself as a "brother-in-law" to the church, referring to his wife's
                    membership in the Methodist Church at Walnut Grove.24
            
            That politics made an unusually strong appeal to "Long Jim" Williams is shown by
                    his participation and leadership in township, county, district, and state Democratic organizations.
                    His leadership was first noticeable in township political affairs where he served as vice-president
                    of the Democratic township organization in 1840, and secretary of the township organization in 1842.
                    His activities in the district included services as a delegate to the district convention at 
                        Bloomfield
                     in 1843, and at 
                        Petersburg
                     in 1857, where he served as chairman of the resolutions committee. He was a delegate
                    from 
                        Harrison
                     township to the Democratic state conventions of 1844, 1848, 1855, and 1858, President
                    of the 
                        Knox County
                     Democratic convention 1857, member of the Democratic State Central Committee of 1862,
                    during which time he was chairman of the Committee on Resolutions which issued the famous
                    "Declaration to Voters of Indiana of 1862," 
                  
                     22 Williams frequently gave "coppers" (pennies) to
                            the little boys who waited along the aisle for him to pass out after Sunday school. He would
                            speak to each one pleasantly, pat him on the head, and drop the penny into his pocket. Many
                            men still living in the community remember this practice.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, Nov. 26, 1880. When Williams was candidate for
                            governor the Sun asked for a biography. He sent them the following brief
                            statement: "James D. Williams, residing in 
                                Harrison
                             Township, near Wheatland, by occupation a farmer, was born in 
                                Pickaway County
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , January 16, 1808, and came to 
                                Knox County
                            , November 27, 1818. Was married February 24, 1831, to Miss Nancy Huffman, in 
                                Harrison
                             Township. Have two children living and Ave dead. The former are John Williams,
                            and Eliza, wife of Richard H. Dunn, a widow since November, 1867. Am a Democrat; and my
                            relidon: 'Do Justice to all men'."
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 10 and 13, 1878.
               
                     and delegate to the National Democratic Convention of 1872, in
                    which he supported the Greeley ticket.26
            
            Interest in political affairs did not stifle Williams's active interest in agriculture and
                    its development. A large portion of his farm was situated in Pond Creek and White
                    River bottoms and possessed soil of great depth and fertility. Much of it was subject to
                    overflow, but some of it was rolling upland. This combination proved excellent for the cultivation
                    of corn and wheat, for meadows, and for the raising of live stock. His skill as a farmer is shown in
                    the fact that, at the first State Fair at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1852, he took first prize for the best wheat grown in the state. His "Essay
                    on Agriculture" appears in the State Board of Agriculture Report for
                    1852. He produced the best timothy and the best clover in the state in 1855. During October of the
                    same year, he exhibited a four-year-old steer at the 
                        Knox County
                     Fair that weighed twenty-seven hundred pounds. At the State Fair in 1857, Williams took
                    first premium for the best oats grown in the state, with an average yield of eighty-three and
                    one-half bushels per acre. He also took first premiums for the best timothy and red-top, and for the
                    best orchard grass, clover, blue grass, and timothy seed produced in the state. His son, George,
                    produced the best ten acres of corn in the state; and another son, John, produced the best five
                    acres of corn, and the best acre of spring wheat. At the State Fair in 1857, Williams and his sons
                    took fifteen first premiums, nine of which were silver cups representing a total value of
                    $150. Again in 1859, he produced the best yields of corn and of timothy in Indiana.26
            
            By a law of February 14, 1851, provision was made for the organization of a State Board of
                    Agriculture, and for the formation of county agricultural and mechanical societies. 
                        Knox County
                    , under the leadership of James D. Williams, was among the first to take advantage of
                    this law. The 
                        Knox County
                     Agricultural and Mechanical Society held its first fair October 15, 1851, and paid out
                    between twenty and thirty 
                  
                     25
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, Oct. 10, 1840; July 23, 1842; Sept. 22, 1857; April 1,
                            1843; June 7. 1844; VinCennes Western Bun and General Advertiser, Dec. 4,
                            1847; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Courant, Feb. 17, 1855; John B. Stoll, History of Indiana
                                Democracy (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916). 205, 250.
                  
                     26 The material summarized in this paragraph is found in the Indiana
                                Agricultural Reports for the years from 1862 to 1859.
               
                     dollars in premiums.27 This society, with
                    Williams as president, continued in active existence until the Civil War period.28 Williams reorganized the 
                        Knox County
                     Agricultural and Mechanical Society in June, 1871,29 and continued
                    to serve as president until his election as Governor.30
            
            A district Agricultural and Mechanical Society of Southwestern Indiana, membership in which was open
                    to every county south of the National Road, was formed at 
                        Princeton
                     in 
                        Gibson County
                    , March 9, 1858, with Williams as president. This society held its first annual fair at 
                        Vincennes
                     in October of the same year.31
            
            Under provisions of the law of February 14, 1851, a State Board of Agriculture was organized May 27,
                    1851, with Govern Wright as president. At the second meeting of this boar at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 8, 1852, Williams was a delegate from 
                        Knox County
                    , and was appointed a member of the committee on schedule of premiums for the first
                    State Fair in the fall of 1852. He also presided over a meeting of the board held January 31, 1852,
                    and took a prominent part in the discussion of agricultural topics. He was elected a member of the
                    board for 1856, and served continuously until 1871, serving as president for three years, 1862,
                    1863, and 1871.32 He was again a member for 1874, but resigned in December of
                    that year to enter Congress, after having been a member of the board for sixteen years. To him more
                    than to any other man except Governor Wright the state owes the development of the State Board of
                    Agriculture. As a member, he saw the receipts of the Indiana State Fair grow from $14,000
                    in 1856, to $45,000 in 1874.33
            
            Few men in Indiana have had a longer career of service in public office than James D. Williams. His
                    interest in political affairs previously discussed would indicate that, even when quite young, he
                    was a man of considerable importance 
                  
                     27 Indiana Agricultural Reports, 1851, 101.
                  
                     28 There were no reports from 
                                Knox County
                             sent to the State Board of Agriculture through the Civil War Period.
                  
                     29 Indiana Agricultural Reports, 1871, 305.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 8, 1876.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, March 20, and June 25, 1858.
                  
                     32 Williams' activities as a member of the State Board of
                            Agriculture are indicated in the Indiana Agricultural Reports for 1866 to
                            1871, inclusive.
                  
                     33 Indiana Agricultural Reports, 1874, 4.
               
                     in the Democratic party. Williams' first public office
                    was that of Justice of the Peace in 
                        Harrison
                     Township, to which he was elected in 1839.34 According to tradition
                    "Squire" Williams acquired considerable local notoriety by settling many cases
                    brought before him by personal intervention, before the matter came to trial. If, however, this
                    failed to settle the difficulty, he heard the case and gave his decision without fear or favor.
                    Though his neighbors sometimes disagreed with his decisions, they never questioned his honesty and
                        sincerity.35
            
            Williams resigned as justice of the peace to enter the state legislature in 1843. His first vote was
                    in opposition to a House resolution providing that two copies each of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel and 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal should be provided for each member out of the general expenses of the
                        Assembly.36 Thus his legislative record for economy in public expenditures,
                    that later made him so prominent in state, and for one session of Congress, in national legislation,
                    was begun with his first vote and remained consistent to his last one.37; He
                    served as a state representative from 
                        Knox County
                     in the sessions of 1843, 1847, 1851, 1857, and 1869.38 A study of
                    his activities during these sessions shows that his desire for economy in public expenditures became
                    almost an obsession, and led him to scrutinize carefully every bill bearing in any way upon public
                    finances.
            As a member of the lower house, Williams served on many of the most important committees and had much
                    to do with the trend of state legislation from 1843 to 1869. One of his pet schemes was the
                    improvement of the Wabash River so that it might be navigable throughout the
                        year.39 In the sessions of 1851 and 1857 he was a member of the committee on
                    Canals and Internal Improvements and had much to do with the final adjustment of the state canal
                    debt.
            
               
                  34 The Justice of the Peace docket written by Williams in 1839 is in the
                        Library at Indiana University.
               
                  35
                        A Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men of Indiana (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1880), Vol. 1, 40.
               
                  36 Indiana House Journal, 1843, p. 22.
               
                  37
                        Congressional Record, 44th Congress, 1st Session, Vol. N, Pt. 4, 3864.
               
                  38 Indiana House Journal, 1843, 1847, 1551, 1857 and
                        1869.
               
                  39 Vinccnnes Weekly Western Sun, Aug. 5, 1843.
            
            
            In the campaign for election to the legislature of 1843, Williams's opponents spread the
                    rumor that he would be opposed to river improvement and canal building. This rumor he silenced by
                    his statement, "I will use all diligence in getting any available means now at hand, or
                    that may hereafter become available, and apply it for the improvement of the river." This
                    reply seems to have been satisfactory for he was elected by a majority of 112 votes.40
            
            He was returned to the legislature as a representative from 
                        Knox County
                     again in the session of 1847, this time at the call of the voters of his county. His
                    standing in the community is indicated by the following comment in the Sun,
                    "Mr. James D. Williams, a gentleman of moral worth and excellent practical sense, is a
                    candidate to represent 
                        Knox County
                     in the Legislature. He served one year with credit to himself and the people who sent
                    him. He is a farmer—a tiller of the soil—one of the working men of the
                    County—we call upon all honest men to support him. Mr. Williams is in favor of the
                    completion of the canal and the improvement of the river. He is emphatically the peoples'
                    man." Even this early in his career his simplicity, his honesty, and the fact that he was a
                    "dirt farmer", were powerful aids in getting votes, for he was elected on the Democratic
                    ticket in a county that normally went Whig by three hundred and fifty votes.41
            
            Williams' political popularity continued to increase in his own county. Although defeated in
                    1844 and 1848, he was elected in 1850, and again in 1856, this time by a majority of 485 votes.42 After serving in the state Senate through four sessions, Williams was
                    returned to the lower house for one session, that of 1869. Three resolutions offered by him in this
                    session are interesting in the light of after events. The first, providing "that the office
                    of state printer be abolished and state printing be let to the lowest responsible bidder,"
                    was smothered by the committee on printing; the second "regulating the sale of certain
                    swamp lands and providing 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, Aug. 12, 1843.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western. Sun. June 5 and July 3, 1547.
                  
                     42 James Southerland. Biographical Sketches of the
                                Members of the Forty-first General Assembly (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1861), 17.
               
                     for their retention by the state"; and the third,
                    "that the members of the House were opposed to amending the 
                        United States
                     Constitution to permit negro suffrage," were lost because of lack of quorum
                    and adjournment.43
            
            James D. Williams was a member of the state senate for the first time in the session of 1859, having
                    been elected joint senator from 
                        Knox
                     and 
                        Daviess
                     Counties, without opposition.44 His attitude toward the canal
                    system seems to have changed after 1847, for in reply to the question, "I desire to know
                    whether you are in favor of the retrocession of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal?" he replied, "I answer that I am not, that the State
                    does not have power under the Constitution to purchase the canal; that if it did have such power, it
                    would be impolitic, unwise, and injurious to the best interests of the state to do so."45 At this session and succeeding ones Williams was on such important committees
                    as those on roads, agriculture, canals, finance, printing, claims, federal relations, and prisons.
                    As chairman of the Committee on Finance he had much to do with determining the amount and
                    distribution of state appropriations, during sessions when Democrats were in control of the state.
                    His importance as a member of the Senate is indicated by the number of times his name appears as a
                    member of special committees, the number and importance of the resolutions offered by him, and the
                    number of bills and amendments proposed by him.46
            
            During the sessions of 1861, 1863, and 1865 Williams joined the Democrats in their attacks on
                    Governor Morton's war activities. This caused him to be severely criticised and denounced
                    as a Copperhead, a term later applied to him by the Republicans when he became a candidate for
                    governor in 1876. From a study of his activities in the Senate, it seems that his attitude was not
                    intended to be one of sympathy for the South so much as it was the result of his desire to support
                    Democratic criticism of the War Governor and his management of war time financial policies. In the
                    session of 1861 Williams voted for an appropriation to provide a 
                  
                     43 Indiana House Journal, 1869, 466 and 475.
                  
                     44 Southerland, Biographical Sketches, 17.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, July 30, 1858.
                  
                     46 Williams's activities in the Senate are indicated in the
                            Indiana senate Journal for 1859, 1861, 1863, 1865, 1871 and 1873.
               
                     $100,000 war contingent fund for the Governor, but
                    later in the same session, introduced, but failed to secure the passage of a resolution calling upon
                    the governor to furnish the legislature a detailed statement of all expenditures from the fund.47 This resolution he introduced again in the session of 1863, and asked that
                    the state treasurer make a detailed report of the war expenditures "to see if the
                    Governor's $100,000 contingent fund had been properly expended." This
                    time the resolution passed the Senate.48
            
            In the special session of 1865, and the special session of 1871, Williams was a candidate for
                    president pro tem of the Senate, but was defeated each time by a few votes. During
                    the session of 1865, he introduced and secured the enactment of a law accepting the terms of the 
                        Morrill Land Grant
                     Act of 1862. The enactment of this law later made possible the establishment of Purdue
                    University in which Williams always maintained a friendly interest.49 During his
                    long service in the state legislature, Williams became one of the best parliamentarians in the state
                    and rarely made mistakes.60 His valuable services earned for him the title,
                    "The Nestor of the Senate."51 The following comment indicates the
                    nature of the popular conception of him and his work: "Mr. Williams was pointed out to us
                    as the 
                        Abe Lincoln
                     of the Senate, and looking at him, we thought we could see the point…. He
                    has become a waymark of righteousness in general legislation of both houses.62
                    Williams' last appearance as a member of the state senate was during the session of 1873.
            When Governor Hendricks called a special session of the state legislature to elect a 
                        United States
                     Senator in 1872, the Democratic caucus selected Williams as its candidate; the
                    Republican caucus selected Ex-Governor Morton to receive the Republican vote. By a strict party vote
                    in each house, Morton defeated Williams by six votes in the Senate and thirteen in the House.
            
               
                  47 Indiana Senate Journal (Special Session) 1861, 269.
               
                  48 Indiana Senate Journal 1863, 100.
               
                  49 See note 46 above.
               
                  50 David Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 19031, 249.
               
                  51
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Times, April 22, 1876.
               
                  52
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Feb. 1, 1871.
            
            
            Williams' activities in state legislative affairs led to his nomination for Congress in
                    1874, by the Democrats of the Second District. At the district convention, held at
                            
                  Washington, Daviess
                            County
               , July 23, the candidates were Thomas R. Cobb, a 
                        Vincennes
                     attorney, and James D. Williams. Delegates arrived on Wednesday, July 22, and seemed to
                    be about equally divided in their support of the two candidates, but, during Wednesday evening,
                    Williams so out-generaled Cobb and his forces that when the convention convened on Thursday morning
                    Cobb's only chance for nomination was to secure the passage of a two-thirds rule.58 This proposal was put before the convention, but was voted down by the
                    Wil-lams' supporters. The convention then called both candidates before it and asked each
                    to support the nominee regardless of which was nominated. After each candidate had made a speech to
                    the convention embodying such a promise, they were asked to retire from the hall while the balloting
                    took place. On the first ballot the vote was Williams, one hundred seven, Cobb, sixty-four. The
                    bitterness of the campaign for nomination had disappeared by August 3 when Williams and Cobb
                    appeared together and made speeches from the same platform at a Democratic rally at 
                        Montgomery
                    . The 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun, which had bitterly opposed Williams, said on July 31: "The
                    nomination (of Williams) is such as will command the hearty and cordial support of all Democrats and
                    Conservatives…. The writer of this article tried in every honorable way to prevent the
                    nomination of Williams, but since he is nominated, he proposes to march shoulder to shoulder with
                    the friends of Mr. Williams to meet the common enemy, and battle as actively for him as he did
                    against him." Williams' nomination proved to be especially popular among farmers
                    because he was reported to be a member of the Grange, and had the active support of that
                    organization.
            The Republicans were unable to agree on a nominee in convention, but Levi Ferguson, of 
                        Pike County
                    , announced himself as their candidate late in August. Williams carried 
                  
                     53 Charges were made by the Cobb delegates that Williams paid the
                            hotel bills of the 
                                Martin County
                             delegates in exchange for their support. A prominent lawyer of 
                                Pike County
                            , who was a Williams worker, says that money and whirtkey were used in
                            Williams' behalf.
               
                     every county in the district.54 This was
                    due partly to his popularity with the Grangers, and partly to the lack of harmony and organization
                    among the Republicans.55
            
            Immediately after his election the newspapers of his district began a spirited discussion as to
                    whether Williams would continue to wear home spun, or 
                        Kentucky
                     jeans, when he appeared in Congress, as he had done throughout his long career as a
                    state legislator. He soon settled the discussion by sending twenty five yards of
                    "jeans," made of wool from his own flock, to a 
                        Vincennes
                     tailor to be made up into two full suits for use in 
                        Washington
                    .56
            
            Adlai E. Stevenson recalls that:
                        While a passenger in a train to 
                                Washington
                            , to be present at the opening of Congress, my attention was directed to a man
                            of venerable appearance, who entered the sleeping car at a station not many miles out from 
                                Cincinnati
                            . He was dressed in "
                                Kentucky
                             jeans" and had the appearance of a well-to-do farmer. Standing in the
                            aisle near me he was soon engaged in earnest conversation with the porter, endeavoring to
                            get a berth. The porter repeatedly assured him that every berth was taken. He told the
                            porter that he was quite ill, and must get on his journey. I then proposed that he share my
                            berth for the night. He gladly did so until other accommodations were provided.
                        On the Monday following, when the House was in the process of organization, the name of James
                            D. Williams of Indiana being called, my sleeping car acquaintance, still attired in blue
                            jeans, stepped forward, and was duly sworn in as a member of Congress. He soon became known
                            all over the country as chairman of the Committee on Accounts. His determination to
                            economize and peculiarity of dress and appearance soon made him the especial objects of
                            amusement to newspaper correspondents. He was the butt of many cheap jokes,57 but, even so "Blue Jeans Williams" became a name to conjure with,
                            and he soon became the most popular man in the state.58
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  54 The Second District has generally gone Democratic since the Civil War.
                        Williams' majority over Ferguson was 7, 690.
               
                  55 This account of Williams' election is drawn from the files of
                        the 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Western. Sun for 1574.
               
                  56
                        
                            Sullivan
                        
                        Democrat, Dec. 1, 1575, quoted in the 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Western Sun, Dec. 10, 1575.
               
                  57 Colonel W. R. Holloway, Recollections of the Exciting
                            Campaign of 1876 in Which Harrisoon Was Defeated for Governor, in the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, May 23, 1909. One of these jokes was that Williams objected to the
                        laundry bill for 4,800 towels used in the House washroom. In the course of his objections he was
                        reported to have said, "Why, one towel on a roller on my back porch at home does a
                        family of seven for a week." Such stories, started by Williams' political
                        opponents to discredit him, really reacted in hls favor.
               
                  58 Adlai E. Sterenson. Something of Men I Have Known (
                            Chicago
                        , 1909), 33.
            
            
            In Congress Williams was made chairman of the Committee on Accounts, and his close scrutiny of
                    expenditures for minor items became a standing joke during the long session of 1875 and 1876. Due to
                    his activities, the number of clerks for the various committees was reduced, appropriations for
                    lemons and sugar for the usual cold drinks in the cloak rooms were not made, expenditures for
                    stationery, penknives, and various other supplies were cut materially, and he soon received the name
                    of "the two and one half cent member from Indiana."59
            
            During this session of Congress Williams was given the name "Blue Jeans"; and from that time
                    forward this name and "Old Uncle Jimmy" vied with each other for first place in
                    popular usage. That he was not entirely averse to the use of such names, probably having in mind
                    their value as a means of political advertising, may be inferred from an event that took place in
                    Congress during the debate on the general appropriation bill. Reduction of expenditures being a
                    fundamental principle of Democratic reform, the items in this bill were cut so low that Congressman
                    Foster, a Republican member from 
                        Kentucky
                    , referred to the "home-spun-
                        Kentucky
                     Jeans Statemanship of the Democratic members in their attitude toward government
                    expenditures." James D. Williams took this as a personal affront and rose to make his first
                    and only speech in Congress. After telling a "funny" story by way of getting
                    started, he turned to Foster and in a few scathing remarks closing with, "I am not ashamed
                    of my 
                        Kentucky
                     jeans. The people of Indiana are not ashamed of me because I wear it,"
                    defended himself so well that Foster apologized to him before the House.60 The
                    name "Blue Jeans" together with his reputation for honesty and economy, had much
                    to do with Williams' election as Governor in 1876.
            Descriptions of "Blue Jeans" went the rounds of the newspapers of the country, and
                    he became an object of curiosity and interest wherever he appeared. A description appearing in the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer is typical: 
                        The name "Blue Jeans" Williams is very appropriate. He is not less than
                            sixty years of age, about six feet three in his boots, and every 
                        
                           59
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                                    Times, April 15, 1876.
                        
                           60 Congressional Record, 44th Congress, 1st Session, pp.
                                    3864–3870.
                     
                             inch an honest farmer statesman. His avoirdupois is not
                            far from 160 pounds. He has a tremendous reach of arms, and his foot resembles a well
                            developed Borgardus-kicker. In other words, he travels on the broad gauge principle. His
                            habiliments, including coat, vest and pantaloons are of that sterling stuff known as blue
                            jeans. Intimate friends say he wears nothing else. When one suit becomes too threadbare for
                            society use, he immediately has another made of like texture. Notwithstanding his long dusty
                            ride from the Capital his shirt was clean, and his black neck cloth maintained at its proper
                            equilibrium. Except that he is a little more attenuated about the jowl, he does not look
                            unlike the late Mr. Lincoln. Until he stood erect, I did not notice that Mr.
                            Williams's coat was anything more than an ordinary cut, but it is. Notwithstanding
                            the material of which it is made, it approaches the Prince Albert pattern….The
                            color is the only objection I can make. It is too blue for a good greenback man.61
                  
                    
                
            During the summer of 1876, Judge Niblack, ex-Congressman from the First Indiana District, introduced
                    Williams to President Grant as "The Granger Congressman from Indiana." Williams
                    created quite a bit of amusement by his reply to 
                        Grant
                    's invitation to "sit down awhile for a chat on farm topics."
                    This reply was in substance that he was not of enough importance to take the President's
                    valuable time from his public duties. 
                        Grant
                     complained to him that the Democratic appropriation bill did not provide suflicient
                    money to carry on necessary affairs of government, and asked him to be more liberal in his views
                    toward providing for necessary expenditures, a request which so angered Williams that he refused to
                    call upon the President again,62 and later accused him of "being a very
                    extravagant man".63
            
            Williams record for economy in Congress, his long and notable services in the state legislature, his
                    popularity with Indiana farmers, and his reputation for honesty, led several of his friends to
                    propose his name as a possible candidate for the Democratic nomination for Governor, which was to be
                    made in the spring of 1876. During the preceding winter his name was frequently mentioned as a
                    desirable candidate for the nomination, but it seemed that 
                        Franklin
                     Landers and 
                  
                     61
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Times, April 16, 1876.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Times, Sept. 2, 1876.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 18, 1876. In his first speech in the race for Covernor,
                            made at 
                                Salem
                            , Aug. 16, Williams charged 
                                Grant
                             with extravagance in vetoing the bill to reduce the President's
                            salary.
               
                     W. S. Holman each had a better chance for the nomination than
                    Williams, with Williams a good compromise candidate in case the Landers and Holman forces should get
                    into a deadlock. So matters stood when the Democratic convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     April 19, 1876.64
            
            In the meantime, the Greenback party of Indiana met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     February 16, 1876, and adopted a platform in favor of immediate and unconditional
                    repeal of the Resumption Act of January 14, 1875, and the withdrawal of all bank notes, and demanded
                    that all paper money be issued by the 
                        United States
                     Government directly to the people—in other words a purely "soft
                    money" platform. The nomination for Governor was offered to 
                        Franklin
                     Landers, a Greenback Democrat, then serving in Congress as a member from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district. Landers took the matter of accepting the nomination under advisement, with
                    the hope that he would also be able to dominate the Democratic state convention, write a Greenback
                    plank into the platform, and secure the nomination. If he could secure the nomination of both
                    parties his election would be assured.65
            
            The Republican state convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     February 22, 1876, and during a stormy session, adopted a platform eulogizing in
                    highest terms the past record of the National Republican party, endorsing the Civil War and
                    Reconstruction policies of the party, and demanding the repeal of the Resumption Act, but calling
                    for the continuance of the existing greenback currency. The nomination for Governor was given to
                    Godlove S. Orth, then serving as 
                        United States
                     minister to 
                        Austria
                    .66
            
            The Democrats, jubilant, and confident of carrying Indiana in October, met in convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , April 19, 1876. They adopted a platform declaring for honesty in public office,
                    retrenchment and economy in state and nation, gold and silver basis for currency, and repeal of the
                    Resumption 
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 20, 1876. Both the Journal and Sentinel discussed the likelihood that Williams would become the
                            compromise candidate. He did not enter the race as an active candidate, and did not know
                            that his name had been placed before the state convention until he received a telegram
                            notifying him of his nomination.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 17, 1876; also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, same date.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 23, 1876.
               
                     Act. The business of the convention was conducted with greatest
                    difficulty because of extreme disorder among the delegates. The fight was particularly bitter
                    between the supporters of Holman and Landers. To quell the disturbance, the name of James D.
                    Williams was offered as a compromise candidate and he was given the nomination unanimously. Great
                    enthusiasm was created for Williams when he was called the "
                        Great Lincoln
                     Democrat of the Centennial Year." "After giving three cheers for
                    Thomas A. Hendricks, three cheers for J. D. Williams, three cheers for the ticket, three cheers for
                    the party, three cheers for victory in October, and three cheers for the country, the convention
                        adjourned."67
            
            What the Republicans of the state thought of the work of the Democratic Convention can be drawn from
                    the statement in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal:
                    
                        The convention could not have done a better day's work for the Republican Party. We
                            believe either Landers or Holman would have been beaten and we know
                            Williams will. He hasn't a single element of positive strength. He is simply an Old
                            Bourbon Democrat, a life-long office holder, of fair to average ability, narrow views and
                            hidebound ideas. He will doubtless hold the strict Democratic vote but no more. He is in no
                            sense the equal of Orth.68
                  
                    
                
            The Democrats were well pleased with their candidate for Governor and declared that:
                    "Democracy may well be proud of its convention of yesterday. Free and untrammeled they met,
                    and free and untrammeled they did their work. The candidate chosen is a representative Democrat. He
                    is a man of unimpeachable integrity. No stain of a bribe ever touched his hands."69
            
            Ex-Governor Morton's declaration that, "a Democratic victory in Indiana in October
                    means a triumph of Confederate Democracy throughout the Nation in November,"70
                    centered the attention of both parties in the state canvass on national issues rather than in purely
                    state affairs. Much attention was given throughout the summer of 1876 to a discussion of the
                    personality of the candidates, Orth and Williams, and charges 
                  
                     67
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 20, 1876.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 20, 1876.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 20, 1876.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 12, 1876.
               
                     and counter charges of dishonesty were made by Democrats and
                    Republicans against each other and the respective candidates for governor. Each party charged the
                    other with intention to carry the state at any cost, and by corruption and fraud if necessary. Much
                    bitterness developed over the "bloody shirt" issue. Political speakers were bitter
                    in their attacks upon their opponents and their policies.71
            
            The Republicans opened their campaign at 
                        Greencastle
                     July 10, where Orth, in his key note speech, devoted his time to a review of the Civil
                    War and Reconstruction periods, and the question of national public debt and finances, but said
                    little about state affairs. A general formal opening of the Republican campaign was held July 20,
                    when more than twenty five rallies were held over the state.72
            
            Lack of enthusiastic and united support of Orth, because of his connection with the Venezuelian
                        claims,73 caused him to tender his resignation as candidate for Governor
                    August 2.74 The Republican State Central Committee met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on August 5 and named General Benjamin Harrison as his successor. 
                        Harrison
                    . then on a fishing trip on 
                        Lake
                     Superior, returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on August 5, and took the matter of his acceptance under advisement until August 7,
                    when he sent his letter of acceptance to the Republican State Central Committee.75 Orth's resignation made a second opening of the Republican canvass necessary. This
                    was held at 
                        Danville
                     August 18, where 
                        Harrison
                    , standing under the inscription, "The office seeks the man," launched
                    his campaign by discussing the Democratic war record, and Tilden's part in it, but said
                    very little about state affairs. This speech foreshadowed the nature of the campaign to be waged in
                    Indiana in 1876.
            The Democratic campaign opening was delayed by the fact that Williams wished to remain at his post in
                    Congress until 
                  
                     71 A typical attack upon Williams' character will be found in
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 24, 1876; upon the character of Orth, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 27, 1876.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 10 and 20, 1876.
                  
                     73 It was charged that Orth, while in Congress, had voted to legalize
                            certain bonds issued by Venezuela, and held by American capitalists; and that he had, at the
                            same time, accepted an attorney's fee of $70,000 for getting this bill
                            through Congress. X Congressional Investigation later declared that Orth had had no criminal
                            connections with the Venezuela claims, but at the time of his resignation from the
                            Republican ticket, his guilt was still an open question.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 3, 1876.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 8, 1876.
               
                     adjournment early in August. His first appearance in his
                    canvass for Governor of Indiana was made at 
                        Salem
                    , August 12, when the Democrats formally opened their campaign for the October election.
                    In the speech at 
                        Salem
                    , Williams discussed the question of honesty and economy in national and state
                    governments, justified his record in Congress, declared that he believed in the policies of the
                    Greenback party in regard to currency, and defended his record during the war period when he had
                    been a member of the state Senate.76
            
            From this time on political excitement in Indiana was at white heat. Monster rallies were held by
                    both parties. Glee clubs were organized in every village, town and city in the state. Great parades
                    led by brass bands were formed at every rally. The greatest Democratic gathering of the campaign was
                    held at 
                        Wheatland
                    , August 31, near the home of "Blue Jeans" Williams. Democratic papers
                    estimated that fifteen thousand people attended "Uncle Jimmy's" home
                        coming.77 Among some of the features of this rally were "huge
                    wagons loaded down with young women dressed in blue jeans, a wagon from Busseron Township drawn by
                    seventy-four mules, and a wagon drawn by fourteen oxen, containing rail-splitters, and surmounted by
                    a hickory pole on the top of which was a live rooster bound fast." "Blue
                    Jeans" clubs from neighboring towns sang "Blue Jeans" songs. Williams
                    wore a brand new suit of jeans to grace the occasion. Leading Democrats, including Governor
                    Hendricks and Colonel Isaac P. Gray, were present and addressed the people from the two large
                    speakers' stands. "Everybody was satisfied and went away happy."78
            
            
               
                  76
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, July 10, Aug. 16, and Aug. 19, 1876.
               
                  77
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 1, 1876. The 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Western Sun said 20,000 people were present, the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal estimated the number at 7,000. In all probability 10.000 persons
                        attended the celebration at 
                            Wheatland
                        .
               
                  78
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Western Sun, Sept. 1, 1876. A favorite with the crowd was the
                        "Democratic Rallying Song," one stanza of which was:
                            Delighted and hopeful we anchor Our trust in all virtuous means, 
                            For this as a weapon will conquer In the hands of our leader, "Blue
                                Jeans". 
                            Then three cheers for the flag—our old charmer— On the
                                "Sage of the 
                                    Wabash
                                " it leans; 
                            Three cheers for the honest old farmer Who leads us, dressed up in blue jeans.
                        
                        Members of the "Blue Jeans" clubs wore uniforms consisting of
                            "Blue Jeans pants, with corded warns: white chip hat, with blue cambric band; red
                            flannel belt, three inches wide, stitched to waistband of pants."
               
            
            
            The Republicans, not to be outdone by Democratic "Blue Jeans" enthusiasm, organized
                    a monster celebration to be held at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Ground, September 26, in honor of "Young Tip." Here the scenes
                    of 1840 were revived. A company of "Old Tip" supporters of 1840 organized and
                    marched about through the crowd, and aroused intense enthusiasm by singing:
                        With General Harrison brave and true,
                        We'll show what Indiana'll do; 
                        Blue Jeans Williams can't come in, 
                        The color's alright but the cloth's too thin.
                    
            
            Log houses on wheels, large wagons filled with young ladies in uniform, canoes on wheels, and wagons
                    carrying banners were a part of the parade, said to have been three miles long. Godlove Orth
                    presided over a great outdoor political speaking in the afternoon at which 
                        Harrison
                     made the principal speech.79
            
            As the campaign got well under way hundreds of political meetings were held over the state by each
                    party. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel carried a list of thirty five Democratic speakers from fourteen different
                    states who stumped the state for "Blue Jeans" during August and September.80 The Democrats held over five hundred public meetings in Indiana during July,
                    August and September. Williams made a thorough canvass of the rural portions of the state, but did
                    not often appear in the larger cities; his special strength was to be found among the farmers.
                    Daniel W. Voorhees accompanied Williams about the state to "exhibit" him as the
                    Republicans said. Williams would speak for a few minutes then give way to Voorhees, who made the
                    real appeal to the voters at each Williams' rally.81 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal carried a list of forty-five Republican speakers from seven states who
                    spoke at more than six hundred public meetings during August and September of 1876.82
                    
                        Harrison
                     proved to be the greatest of the Republican orators; Voorhees the greatest of the
                    Democratic orators in this campaign.
            
               
                  79
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Sept. 27, 1876.
               
                  80
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, August to October, inclusive.
               
                  81 The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel for August and September contains accounts of these meetings.
               
                  82
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, August to October, inclusive.
            
            
            The issues discussed in the campaign were for the most part national in their character and
                    application and dealt with the Democratic war record, the question of resumption and the currency,
                    and honesty and reform in public office. The first of these issues, that of the "bloody
                    shirt," was made the subject of many long and fervid orations, by Harrison and Voorhees.
                    Harrison at 
                        Greensburg
                    , August 24, declared: 
                        For one I accept the banner of the bloody-shirt. I am willing to take as our ensign the
                            tattered, worn out old gray shirt, worn by some gallant 
                                Union
                             hero; stained with his blood as he gave his life up for his country, and
                            shoulder to shoulder, elbow to elbow, stepping to the music of the old drum taps, we will
                            move forward, eyes to the front, faces to the foe to victory, again under the hallowed
                            banner of the "bloody shirt."83
                  
                     Voorhees' answer to this was, "We are not fighting the war now against
                    the South. We are fighting the battle of honesty and reform in public office."84
                    On the question of national currency each party, in the main, advocated the principles set forth in
                    its state platform. The question of honesty and reform in government consumed much of the time of
                    all political speakers of both parties.85
            
            Much time was given to a discussion of the qualifications for the governorship possessed by 
                        Harrison
                     and Williams. The tone of this discussion can be gathered from the following
                    editorials, the first from the Republican Journal is as follows: 
                        Gen. Harrison, the Republican candidate for Governor so far surpasses his opponent, J. D.
                            Williams, in all the essential points that any attempt at comparison takes the form of
                            contrast. 
                                Harrison
                             is a man of large intellect and extensive attainments; Williams a man of narrow
                            mind and no culture. 
                                Harrison
                             would take front rank in any assemblage of great men; Williams a rear rank in
                            an assemblage of common ones. 
                                Harrison
                             was a brave soldier and patriot; Williams was a Copperhead and fomenter of
                            state difficulties. 
                                Harrison
                             discusses questions of state like a statesman; Williams calls attention to his
                            personal appearance…. 
                                Harrison
                             travels on his brains; Williams on his pantaloons. One would honor the
                            governorship; the other disgrace it,86
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  83
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Aug. 21, 1876. This statement was carried on the Journal's editorial page until the election.
               
                  84
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 6, 1876. Voorhees frequently remated this statement.
               
                  85 The political speeche as reported in the newspapers of the fall Of 1876
                        justify this view.
               
                  86
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Sept. 5, 1876.
            
            
            The Democratic Sentinel in speaking of 
                        Harrison
                     said:
                        General Harrison has nothing in common with the people who hammer at the forge, till the
                            ground or labor with their hands. An aristocrat by birth, he is one in feeling and
                            sentiment…. He thinks the blood in his veins is a deeper blue than that which
                            courses in the veins of the mechanic and day laborer. He is as cold as an icicle and has
                            more brains than feelings. He is the best example we know of brains run to seed. He is a
                            stronger candidate than Orth, but he is not strong enough to be elected Governor of Indiana
                            this Centennial Year87
                  
                    
            
            In spite of the seeming harshness of political editorial attacks made upon the candidates for
                    Governor, much good natured ridicule, without personal malice, was current in the press. The best
                    example of this sort of journalism appeared in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, September 7, and is as follows: 
                        He (Williams) is a difficult man to describe. 
                                Abraham Lincoln
                             was an Admiral Crichton in comparison, and Richard Smith would look like an
                            Apollo Belvidere along side of him. The English language would never recover from the shock
                            of a detailed and accurate description of his general appearance, and it would take Uncle
                            John Robinson, in his most energetic and capable moments to properly emphasize his political
                            points and peculiarities. He is as handsome as black 
                                India
                            -rubber baby drawn out to its greatest possible length and its face pinched out
                            of shape. His head, in shape, is of the sugar-loaf order, and is covered with a short,
                            stumpy growth of bristling, iron-gray hair. His only whiskers is a little bunch of the same
                            description of hair grown upon his "Adam's apple" and sticking
                            out between the hard, yellow-starched ends of his cotton "side-boards,"
                            that serve on each side of his head to support, the heavy dewlaps of his enormous ears. His
                            eyes are small, and closely set against the high, narrow bridge of his long, sharp,
                            inquisitive nose. His mouth looks as though it had been put on warm and ran all over the
                            lower part of his face before it got set, and it opens like the opening of navigation in the
                            spring. Looking him full in the face gives one the idea of a narrow loaded hay barge, with
                            broad side sails set, coming down stream with the front cabin doors wide open. His long,
                            lean legs part with each other in disgust at the hips and pursue separate and diverging
                            paths to the knees, when negotiations for a reconciliation are entered into which takes
                            place finally at the ends of the toes of two great feet, which join each other lovingly,
                            while the heels still remain estranged and keep as far away from each other as possible.
                    
                
            As the campaign drew to a close both parties extended themselves to the limit to win. The Republicans
                    declared it a matter of state pride to elect 
                        Harrison
                    . They appealed to 
                  
                     87
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 7, 1876.
               
                     the Irish, the negro, the Independent, the business man, the
                    regular Republican, and the young man, to help save the state from further Democratic
                        misgovernment.88 The Democrats appealed to the "regular"
                    Democrats, the Independents, the reformers, the day laborers, and the honest Republican farmers and
                    mechanics, "in the name of liberty to lay aside their love of party and unite in electing
                    the faithful old farmer statesman to the office of governor."89 During the last
                    few days of the campaign James G. Blaine and former Governor Morton made speeches in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in behalf of the Republican cause.90 The Democrats imported men
                    from 
                  Missouri, Iowa
               , and 
                        Illinois
                     to save the day for "Blue Jeans."91
            
            The State election, October 10, 1876, resulted in a majority of slightly over five thousand for
                        Williams.92 On the evening of October 11, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal declared, "The returns seem to justify the assertion that 
                        Harrison
                     is elected Governor. The election was a full, fair and unconditioned expression of
                    popular will." The Democrats were highly elated over the fact that "Blue Jeans
                    swept the Hoosier State from stem to stern" and declared that "Williams will not
                    make a glittering ruler, but he will prove a golden one, enriching the people of the state by his
                    economy and honesty and wise and prudent counsels."93 By October 13, when
                    Williams' election was assured, the Journal had changed its views
                    regarding the election, and professed to believe "Jimmy Williams owes most of his majority,
                    if not his election, to efforts of professional corruptionists and trained repeaters brought in from
                    other states."
            Williams as governor-elect became more widely advertised than he had been as congressman or candidate
                    for Governor. He and his family became special victims of newspaper reporters. The Republican press
                    continued to find amusement in his blue jeans and his simple methods of living. They 
                  
                     88
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 4, 1876.
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Oct. 5, 1876: 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Bun, Sept. 23, 1876.
                  
                     90
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sept. 26, 1876.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 26, 1876.
                  
                     92 Indiana Senate Journal, 1877, 43.
                            Williams' vote was 213, 219: 
                                Harrison
                            's, 208,080: Williams' majority, 5,139.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Oct. 11 and 12, 1876.
               
                     asked the Democrats if Williams' family would attend
                    the inaugural ball barefooted, and if Williams himself would lead the dancing.94
                    Even Harper's Weekly sent a reporter to the Williams farms near Wheatland to interview Mrs.
                    Williams in her home. At this time the Williams home was "a story and a half frame house
                    painted white. The parlor had an ingrain carpet, a wide fireplace with daguerreotypes on the mantel,
                    a high post bed-stead with a patchwork quilt, and a portrait of General Jackson hanging on the
                        wall."95
            
            When James D. Williams appeared in public he was immediately besieged by reporters seeking interviews
                    on his attitude toward current political questions. He was courteous to all, but as one of them
                    expressed it, "a rather dry pump to work upon." He was never a very good subject
                    for reporters, always expressing himself very clearly and briefly if he said anything at all, but
                    usually during such an interview "his face, when he chose to be uncommunicative, was as
                    un-expressionless as a cast-iron safe, and when he was in such a humor it was useless to try the
                        combination."96
            
            The best description of Governor-elect Williams was that written by a reporter for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Herald after an interview with Williams at his rooms at the Occidental Hotel. He
                    found him 
                        to be a courteous, dignified gentleman, plainly dressed, but scrupulously clean. His suit of
                            blue jeans is cut after an antique pattern; but every part is immaculately clean. His shirt
                            collar is of the style fashionable in the days of 'Old Hickory', and is
                            kept in fraternal nearness to his slender neck by means of an old-fashioned black
                            neckerchief wound around it several times. His shirt bosom is irreproachably white, and was
                            without stud or pin. Across it ran a slender watchguard which secured a silver watch,
                            carried solely for utility and not for ornament. His hands which are long and slender, and
                            rather delicate looking, of an aristocratic rather than a plebeian shape, were especially
                            free from impurities, and his nails were unadorned even by second mourning. In conversation
                            Mr. Williams talks with ease and interest. Personally he is rather noticeable. He is tall
                            and carries his head bent forward a trifle, which is more suggestive of thoughtfulness than
                            of age. Indeed 
                        
                           94 Holloway, Recollections of the Exciting
                                        Campaign.
                        
                           95 Harper's Weekly, Dec. 23, 1876.
                        
                           96 Charles Dennis, "Blue Jeans"
                                        Recalled by Adlai Stephenson, in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, Jan. 17. 1910. Dennis, as a young reporter, knew Williams
                                    and often interviewed him.
                     
                             his sixty-eight years sit lightly on him, his gait
                            betraying no unsteadiness of nerve, and frailness of body, and his abundant black hair being
                            only about half mixed with white.97
                  
                    
            
            James D. Williams was inaugurated Governor of Indiana at the Academy of Music in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 8, 1876. He was introduced by Governor Hendricks and, after taking the oath of
                    office, read his inaugural address. On this occasion Williams wore a brand new suit of blue jeans
                    lined with silk, a gift from ladies of 
                        Louisville
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . In the evening he gave a public reception and ball at the Occidental Hotel. Here he
                    had engaged a suite of rooms for his home during his term as Governor. This reception was a success
                    in every way. He was greeted as warmly by his political opponents as he was by his warmest political
                    supporters. He had few personal enemies on the day of his inauguration, even though the preceding
                    campaign had been one of extreme bitterness.98
            
            It is not the purpose of this paper to discuss at length the executive acts of Governor Williams.
                    Mention may be made of the most important events of his term of office. The great railroad strikes
                    of 1877 tied up freight and passenger traffic for a few days early in July. Williams at first
                    announced that he would interfere in no way with the strike or the strikers, but after some
                    destruction of property by the strikers had led to bitter criticism of his inaction, he called out
                    the militia to protect property and preserve peace. His course pleased the workmen, but brought
                    severe criticism from newspapers favorable to railroad interests.99 Williams was
                    also severely criticised because of the number of pardons issued to inmates of the state prison.100 The most notable event of his administration was the law of March, 1877,
                    providing for the erection of a new State House.101 That this was built and
                    furnished at a cost under the $2,000,000 appropriated for that purpose, is an unusual
                    monument to the honesty and economy of Williams 
                  
                     97 See 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Western Sun, Dec. 29, 1876.
                  
                     98 Accounts of Williams' inauguration and reception are found
                            in 
                                Indianapolis
                             papers for Jan. 9. 1877.
                  
                     99
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, July 27, 28, and Aug. 14, 1877.
                  
                     100
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 25. 1878. During the first eighteen months of Williams term
                            he pardoned 125 criminals. This was 15 more than 
                                Hendricks
                             had pardoned in any period of the same length.
                  
                     101
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, March 13, 1877.
               
                     and his associates and successors in the enterprise. No act of
                    Williams' career as Governor gave him more pleasure than the appointment of Daniel Voorhees
                    to the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1877, to fill the seat made vacant by the death of Senator Morton.102
            
            Governor Williams took his duties as Governor very seriously, as is illustrated by a toast to the
                    "Governor of Indiana" given at the legislative banquet of 1877, in which he said:
                        
                        The honorable position of Governor of a great state should not be sought by any one; and
                            should not be declined by him to whom it is tendered. There are great responsibilities
                            connected with it, and when this office is filled by the selection of the people no one
                            should decline them. His acts should be such that after generations will look upon them with
                            pride and say: "He was faithful and true to his people".108
                  
                    
                
            Williams frequently made addresses at county fairs, old settlers' meetings, and
                    farmers' picnics. In June, 1877, he attended an old fashioned log-rolling on the farm of
                    Dr. Furnas near 
                        Danville
                    , Indiana. Many of the best known men of Indiana were present and took part in rolling
                    and piling logs. Williams drove an ox team to show that his skill as an ox driver had not deserted
                    him. A picture of the group was taken showing Williams with an ox goad in the act of driving a yoke
                    of oxen.104
            
            Woollen has given us the best contemporary description of Williams as he appeared in 1880. It is as
                        follows:
                        He stands six feet four inches in his boots; is remarkably erect for one of his years; has
                            large hands and feet; has high cheek bones; a long sharp nose; twinkling grey eyes; a clean
                            shaven face skirted with whiskers upon his throat; and a head covered profusely with black
                            hair in which scarcely a gray filament is to be seen. His physiognomy denotes industry and
                            shrewdness and does not belie the man. He dresses plainly but with scrupulous neatness. He
                            is a good judge of human nature, and he who attempts to overreach him will have his labor
                            for his pains.105
                  
                    
            
            During the summer of 1880 Williams, who was himself at times in exceedingly poor health, experienced
                    the greatest 
                  
                     102
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            sentinel, Nov. 7, 1877.
                  
                     103
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 2, 1877.
                  
                     104 Mrs. Ruth J. Davidson of Petersburg has one of these pictures. One
                            also hangs in the court house at 
                                Danville
                            .
                  
                     106
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            News, July 7, 1880.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            
                        
                           Dr. T. W. Johnson
                           Gov. James D. Williams
                           John W. Furnas
                        
                        
                           Dandridge Tucker
                           Gen. George Russ
                           Alex Herron
                        
                        
                           Levi Pennington
                           Dr. Allen Furnas
                           J. D. Kingsbury, of Indiana Farmer
                        
                     
                        
                  GOV. WILLIAMS
                            AS FARMER Log Rolling on the Farm of Dr. Furnas near 
                                Danville
                            , Ind.
                  Copyright 1877 Wade. Norton & Co.
               
                    
                     grief of his long life. In February, 1880, Mrs. Williams
                    suffered an injury from a fall from which she never recovered; she gradually grew weaker until her
                    death, June 27. Williams was at her bedside as often as his official duties would permit and was
                    with her when she died. Mrs. Williams was scarcely known beyond the vicinity of her own home. She
                    did not visit 
                        Indianapolis
                     while her husband was Governor. For the forty-nine years of her married life she was
                    content to be the mother and housekeeper, while her husband was away from home looking after his
                    numerous business and political interests. Williams never recovered from the shock of her death.106 Some weeks after this event, he was discovered by his widowed daughter, Mrs.
                    Dunn, hidden in the hay mow, while great sobs of grief shook his frame and tears coursed down his
                        cheeks.107 On Mrs. Williams' monument is found the simple
                    inscription, "Faithful as a Mother, Wife and Friend."
            After Williams' return to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from his wife's funeral, he rapidly declined in health.108
                    He said to one of his friends, "I feel a general breakdown all along the line." He
                    became seriously ill early in November and died at his room in the 
                        Washington
                     Club House, November 20, 1880. His body lay in state November 22, in the 
                        Marion County
                     Courthouse, where sincere tribute to his memory was paid by the people of 
                        Indianapolis
                     irrespective of party or creed. The body lay in state at 
                        Vincennes
                    , November 23. A public funeral was held in 
                        Vincennes
                     at which Henry S. Cauthorn delivered the funeral oration. Short addresses of tribute
                    were delivered by Governors Gray of Indiana, Blackburn of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Cullom of 
                        Illinois
                    , and Mr. Milton, representing the Governor of 
                        Ohio
                    . Williams' body was then buried in the Walnut Grove Cemetery beside that of
                    his wife.
            
               
                  105 Wollen W. W.; Biographical and Historical Sketches of
                            Early Indiana, 151.
               
                  107
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Weekly Commercial, Nov. 27, 1880.
               
                  108
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, Nov. 21. Williams suffered from inflamation of the bladder, which
                        eventually caused his death.
            
            
            A large granite monument was erected to Governor and Mrs. Williams by their children and
                        grandchildren.109 This monument was unveiled at a great public gathering,
                    July 4, 1883. As a last tribute to the memory of "Blue Jeans" people came from all
                    over Indiana to be present. Among the distinguished men present were Ex-Governor Baker, Benjamin
                    Harrison, Governor Isaac P. Gray, and Daniel Voorhees, each of whom paid tribute to the memory of
                    James D. Williams.110
            
            General Benjamin Harrison, who was Governor Williams' opponent in the gubernatorial contest
                    of 1876, paid this generous tribute to the memory of the departed governor:
                        If there were nothing to be said of Governor Williams's relation to the public
                            affairs of Indiana at all, his life would be an honorable and successful one. I have always
                            felt that the successful pioneer, one of those who pressed forward toward the edge of
                            civilization in the early days, and made a successful fight with the wilderness, and cleared
                            the primitive forest and made of it a meadow, and of the marsh a dry field, and who built up
                            around him and for himself and for the family that God gave him, a competence, elevated
                            them, that that life was an honorable life and worthy of mention in any assembly. This work
                            Governor Williams has done conspicuously.111
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  109 No epitaph can be more fitting than that carved on the monument of
                        James D. Williams:
                            James D. Williams Born January 16, 1508. Died November 20, 1580. A representative of the
                                people— Who served as legislator for many years. Was one term in Congress.
                                Governor of Indiana from 1877 till his death. Always a faithful public officer and
                                "An honest man."
                         Indiana honored him in life and cherishes his memory in death.
               
                  110
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Nov. 21, 22, and 23: 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, same dates.
               
                  111 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                            Indiana, 156.
            
         
         
         
            Narratives of the Reverend George Knight Hester and His Wife, Benee (Briggs) Hester
            The following material is published by the courtesy of the Reverend C. E. Hester, 
                        Charlestown
                    . Part I, "Autobiography of the Reverend George Knight Hester", and Part III,
                    "Autobiography of Mrs. Benee Hester, Wife of George Knight Hester," are printed
                    complete; Part II, "Civil, Ecclesiastical and Educational History of 
                        Clark
                    's 
                        Grant
                    ," is part of the additional information sent on request by George Knight
                    Hester to his son F. A[sbury] Hester, the father of C. E. Hester. All three narratives are contained
                    in a copybook in the handwriting of F. A. Hester, who evidently made a very accurate copy of the
                    original manuscripts of his father and his mother.
            The account of the Pigeon Roost massacre in Part I and that of Benee (Briggs) Hester's
                    religious experience in Part III are of especial interest. All of the narratives are valuable for
                    the light they throw upon life in southern Indiana in the early days of its settlement.
            The footnotes printed with this article are based upon information supplied by George Knight Hester
                    and copied by F. A. Hester, together with data collected and furnished by Permelia Boyd of
                    Scottsburg.
            EDITOR.
            I. AUTOBIOGRAPHY
                of THE REVEREND GEORGE KNIGHT HESTER
            
            [About 18511
            Dear Asbury,—To give you a sketch of those several items, contained in your communication
                    of May last, imposes upon me a duty of no small magnitude,—as I have no time to spare
                    from other pressing concerns; but as you seem to desire one, I will try to comply with your
                    request—circumstanced as I am.
            My father, John Matthias Hester, was born in 
                        Germany
                    , the Kingdom of 
                        Hanover
                    , July 4, 1766. His father1 and family were shipped for America at 
                        Amsterdam
                     and arrived at 
                        Philadelphia
                     about eighty years ago. Grandfather not being 
                  
                     1 John Laurens Hester. The name in German was Hoerster.
               
                     able to meet the claims of the passage, which were sixty lbs.,
                    the recorded currency of the time, the whole family were sold for a term2 to
                    defray the expenses of the passage. They consisted of five members, viz.: Grandfather Hester, his
                        wife,3 and three children.4 My father being the youngest
                    was permitted by the purchaser to remain with his parents; but being treated with the greatest
                    degree of barbarity, he was removed by a benevolent person, where he was well provided for. As the
                    inhumanity exercised towards the other members of the family became notorious, in the lapse of one
                    year money was loaned them by a kind friend, by which means their redemption was procured; but not a
                    cent was relinquished for the year's service already performed.
            The lapse of several years found Grandfather removed the distance of three hundred miles and residing
                    on his own farm, which had been purchased by means procured by the industry of the whole
                    family—with the exception of 5 lbs of the redemption money as yet unpaid, which he was
                    directed to retain for this special purpose. Being soon called by death to a premature grave,5 in his dying hours he directed his wife to return back this whole distance and
                    settle off, in person, this amount. And accordingly it was done:—such was his strict
                    moral honesty.
            The education of my father was in the German language; and he was brought up in the Protestant
                    religion and received into the Lutheran Church in his youth, after undergoing a regular catechetical
                    training. But being thrown by circumstances far from the watch care of the Church, he, to a great
                    extent, lost his moral and religious character, until the Autumn of 1809, when he was powerfully
                    arrested by Divine truth and induced to join the Methodist E. Church, although [he had been] a
                    violent persecutor of the same for many years; and in this Church he lived until the day of his
                    death.
            
               
                  2 Six years.
               
                  3 Mary Margaret Ire.
               
                  4 John Laurens, Mary Magdeline, John Matthias. Four children born in 
                            America
                         were: Mary Elizabeth, Mary Ann, Susannah, John Henry. Besides these there were
                        three children who died early and whose names were not recalled.
               
                  5 Ahout 1785. His widow died about 1800. The farm was in
                                
                     Greene County, Pennsylvania
                  .
            
            
            From the flattering description then given of the rich and fertile character of 
                        Kentucky
                    , my father was induced to emigrate to it. Accordingly, when he was a little turned of
                    twenty years, he left the family residence which was then near 
                        Union
                     Town, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , for the Far West. After arriving at the place of his destination and remaining some
                    two years,6 he returned back to see his friends, and remained with them near a
                    year. But the fa[s]cinating charms of [the] country he had seen himself had fixed in his mind a
                    determination to be one of its citizens. He wended his [way] back again through those formidable
                    difficulties which were strewn in the route. His passage was by water. In descending the
                        Ohio River in those times, it was no rare occurrence to meet with attacks
                    from the savage tribes who were prowling along its shores to enrich themselves with spoils of their
                    murdered victims. Through one of those firey ordeals he had to pass. Floating carelessly one day
                    while at dinner, near the mouth of the Kentucky River (the portion of country
                    where their attacks were the most frequent and successful,) they found themselves near the Indian
                    shore;—a white man presented himself with a three-cocked hat, and called to them to land,
                    that he might exchange some of his bear meat for flour. Part of the company proposed complying with
                    the request. My father, being persuaded it was intended to decoy them, immediately threw the boat in
                    such a direction as led the savages to believe that danger was apprehended. This man stepped behind
                    a tree, and instantly a volley of rifle shot was poured in upon them; but fortunately none were
                    injured, although 29 bullets were buried in the plank of their boat. They passed the remaining
                    distance unmolested, until they were landed at 
                        Louisville
                    . There he remained a length of time in the employ of [a] citizen of [the] place, to
                    drive his team of horses. In September, 1790, he assisted another teamster in removing two families
                    from a neighborhood adjoining 
                        Louisville
                     to Shelbyville. At the close of the first day's travel they arrived at a
                    station known in early times by the name of Benny Hugh's Station, immediately on the route
                    from 
                        Louisville
                     to Shelbyville. This point was gained 
                  
                     6 First near 
                                Lexington
                            , later in the neighborhood of 
                                Louisville
                            .
               
                     with design, to avoid an attack at night by the savages.
                    Proceeding early next morning to the place of their destination, about one half mile from the
                    station they were fired upon by a party of Indians who had concealed themselves in ambush. The
                    result was that two of their company were wounded—my father and a Mr. Leatherman, the
                    head of one of the families. His horse ran with him and threw him into a sink-hole, where he
                    remained undiscovered. His wound being a flesh-wound in the hip, was not very alarming, hence no
                    surgical means were resorted to in its cure. Although he succeeded to heal it outwardly, in two
                    years after it mortified and killed him. My father was shot with a rifle ball above the left eye,
                    from a distance of 4 paces. He was in the act of turning to the right, which perhaps was the cause
                    of the bullet varying from the centre of his forehead;—though a glancing shot, it broke
                    his skull-bone. He instantly sprang over the off-wheel horse, and fell in the act. As he arose to
                    his feet he saw two Indians approaching, one passing before his team, the other around the hind part
                    of his wagon. The only possible chance of escape was to gain a thick grove of timber and bushes
                    which lay to the right. The loss of the balance of his person from the wound in his head, and the
                    obstruction of his sight by the streaming blood, prevented him from pursuing the wanted course or to
                    keep him from falling to the earth, accordingly he was prostrated three times in running 170 yards.
                    The last time he fell, his pursuers were so close upon him that he could not possibly escape. He
                    determined he would fain [feign] himself dead, and receive, without a struggle, all their butchery.
                    The first Indian that came up drew his tomahawk to sink it in his head, but being a glancing stroke,
                    it chipped up the skull-bone of his head. The second that came saluted him in the same manner; but
                    as he struck with his Indian axe, he slipped and fell—which failed to do the intended
                    execution; it also broke the skull-bone of his head. They proceeded to remove the scalp from the
                    back part of his head. It was very painful in the operation and done with as little mercy. Having
                    had a presentiment that he should fall into the hands of the Indians, from a singular dream he had
                    had a few nights previous to this trip—"of the loss of his whole  team from some disastrous circumstance"—which he dreamed
                    three different times the same night, and at each time he awoke he would find himself in a high
                    state of perspiration: —1 say, having had fears that some such calamity would befall him,
                    when the barber trimmed his hair, the day before he started on this trip he remarked to him that he
                    wished to have it cut perfectly close to his head, that, in the event of his falling into the hands
                    of the Indians, he did not wish them to have the convenience of long hair in taking his scalp.
                    During sometime of this bloody scene they speared him in the back with a long spear. He often said,
                    it must have been thrown at him while running; for during the whole scene after they came upon him
                    he had the entire presence of his mind, and felt certain they did not plunge it into his body then.
                    This wound affected him more seriously than all others put together. It caused him to bleed inwardly
                    and the blood settled in his side to a considerable amount. It not being observed for several days
                    after this catastrophe had happened, from appearances threatened fatal results. However from
                    skillful bleeding and frequent and profuse sweatings it was finally removed. He was persuaded his
                    breathing organs were impaired. When he inhaled in his lungs dusty air, he labored under the same
                    difficulty in breathing that persons do in the last stages of asthma, which never was the case with
                    him before this circumstance.—As soon as they had ended their butchery with him they
                    returned back to the wagons, commenced cutting the furniture and wagons, so as to injure them as
                    much as possible. After they had destroyed, to the utmost of their ability, what they could not
                    convey off, there remained among them perfect silence for a few minutes. My father supposing they
                    had left, arose, from his prostration on the ground, to a sitting position, leaning upon one of liis
                    hands. He soon heard them coming towards him; he instantly threw himself down in the same position
                    in which he was when they left him. They approached within a few paces; regarding him as being dead,
                    they returned back to the wagons; and soon the rattling chains and tKe thundering of the horses
                    indicated that they had left in full speed,—each one selecting a route for himself, to
                    avoid forming a trail that  might be readily
                    pursued.—The flight of the families back to the station had rallied its inmates to
                    witness the destruction of life and the loss of property, and, after hunting sometime, they found
                    the wounded. My father presented an awful spectacle, having bled like a butchered hog. From the
                    feverish state of his body, produced by the loss of blood and severe sufferings, he was almost ready
                    to perish for the cooling draught. The only convenience they had to bring him the article was by
                    means of their hats. He was seated on a horse —to be supported by an individual riding
                    behind him on the same animal; but he soon fainted and had to be taken down. They seemed to be at a
                    loss for a plan to remove him. He devised one himself; to which they would not at first comply,
                    regarding him as not being perfectly sane; at the suggestion of which he became displeased. As a
                    proof that he had the proper balance of his mind, he referred them to a certain point on the track
                    he had run where he had dropped his wagon whip. They repaired to the place and found it even so.
                    They then adopted his plan; which was to carry him to the station by four men with a sheet fastened
                    to two poles. After he was brought to the house of the family residing in the station, the inhuman
                    mistress remonstrated greatly against his being brought there, and forbid his remaining. My father
                    became so indignant at these remarks, that he gathered up his upper garment which had been removed
                    on account of its bloody condition, arose, and staggered out of the house and seated himself on a
                    beam of timber which lay in the yard: choosing rather to be mantled by the spreading heavens than to
                    abide under her roof; and it was with difficulty that he could be prevailed upon to re-enter her
                    dwelling. A physician was sent for, who arrived sometime in the night—Dr. Knight, who had
                    been surgeon in Col. Crawford's army, and was taken captive by the Indians at his defeat.
                    The history of his captivity and escape is detailed in the account of Indian affairs.' The Dr. declared he could do nothing for him unless he was brought to his own
                    house. On the morning of the next day arrangements were made to convey him to the Dr's
                    —some 14 miles through the woods, by means of what was then denominated a horse-litter;
                    which was composed of a 
                  
                     7
                            The Western Adventures.
               
                     sheet sewed fast to two poles. The one end of the pole fastened
                    to a horse's hames and the other end borne by two men. In this way he was jolted through
                    the brush and woods, until he found himself placed under the special care of this humane physician
                    and family; and under his care he remained for fifteen months. Had it not been for the skillful
                    treatment of the Dr. and the kind attention of his family, he never could have survived this savage
                    barbarity. The Knight family became so endeared to him that when I was born, which was on the 26th
                    of Sept. 1794,8 he gave Mrs. Knight the privilege of naming me:—so I
                    bear the family name from this circumstance,—Eighteen months after he fell into the hands
                    of the Indians—in 1793—-he was connected in marriage with Miss Susannah
                    Huckleberry,—before his wounds were entirely weii.9
            
            Being pressed in pecuniary matters, he was obliged to repair several miles to Man's Lick10 to labor for salt for family purposes, the plan that was then generally
                    pursued to obtain the article. While employed in hauling wood, under the rays of a brightly-shining
                    sun, he accidentally discovered the glitter of two guns moving slowly along an oak tree that had
                    recently been blown down, behind which two savages had concealed themselves, seeking to obtain the
                    most eligible position to level their pieces upon my father. He instantly sprang between his horses,
                    cut the hame-strings, and mounting one put off in full speed in a quarterly direction to avoid
                    receiving a shot in the back; and so escaped with his fellow laborers to the furnaces in safety. As
                    he had made such a narrow escape of falling by Indian barbarity a second time, he resolved to leave
                    the place and return home to his family.
            A treaty of peace being concluded with the hostile tribes" my father located a piece of land
                    in the 
                        Illinois
                        Grant
                    ,12 14 
                  
                     8 In 
                                Shelby County
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            : six miles west of Shelbyville. A brother, Craven P., and a sister, Mary Muir,
                            also were born in 
                                Kentucky
                            .
                  
                     9 The following children were born to Matthias and Susannah Hester:
                            George Knight, Sept. 26. 1794, died Sept. 20, 1874: Craven P., May 17, 1796; William died in
                            infancy: Mary, 1798; Elizabeth, 1800; Effle, 1804: David: Sarah, 1807: Rebecca, 1808:
                            William Allen, 1810: 
                                Milton
                             Paine, 1813: Uriah A. V. 1816.
                  
                     10 Eight or ten miles south of 
                                Louisville
                            .
                  
                     11 Treaty of Greenville, August, 1796.
                  
                     12 Also known as 
                                Clark
                            's 
                                Grant
                            , now included in 
                                Clark
                             and 
                                Scott
                             counties. The grant was made by the 
                                Virginia
                             Assembly in 1783 and surveyed by William Clark in 1786. The patent bears date
                            of Dec. 14, 1786. Indian claims were surrendered in the treaty of Greenville in 1795.
               
                     miles North of 
                        Louisville
                     and removed to it in the fall of 1799. —A French store having been set up a
                    short distance from his residence the Indians in repairing to this for purposes of trade had to pass
                    near his residence. They would frequently call and demand lodging for [the] night. On a certain
                    occasion there were two Indians came with a jug of whiskey and demanded quarters. After the
                    barbarous treatment my father had received he had very little love for them, and did not wish to
                    have any about him. On this occasion he denied their application. This was a great insult to them.
                    They called for fire and erected a camp near his barn. Fearing they might burn it, sometime after
                    they had built up their fire he went out and invited them into his dwelling. They accepted of his
                    offer. But the rejection of their first application seemed greatly to embitter their minds; and this
                    was increased with their inflammation by liquor. They spent the night in drinking and conversing
                    together; and occasionally singing. As one could talk very good English, he would interrupt my
                    father's rest by frequent calls. He seemed to have a peculiar pleasure in the relation of
                    deeds of daring barbarity performed by him in the time of the old war. He related one scene of
                    cruelty which he had practiced upon the first settlers of 
                        Kentucky
                     in taking no regular rest or sleep for 5 nights in succession, but was constantly
                    engaged in committing depredations upon the frontier settlements. From their movements we became
                    somewhat alarmed. My father arose from his bed, awoke me and sent me to a family residing hard by,
                    where there were some individuals watching with the sick. He directed me to prevail on some one to
                    accompany me back and tarry for the night. I succeeded to obtain Captain B. While I was gone my
                    father discovered one of their large butcher knives lying by their side: he placed it in an opening
                    between one of the puncheons of the floor and the wall of the house, to lessen their means of
                    injury, should they attempt it. When Cap. B. came he requested one of the Indians to let him smoke
                    with his tomahawk. It was granted. He had commenced smoking but a few minutes, when the principal
                    Indian began to feel for his knife but could not find it. He immediately became suspicious, arose to
                    his  feet, and sprang with violence to Cap. B., wrenched the
                    tomahawk out of his hands, and wheeled upon my father with it drawn back to such a distance as to
                    give it sufficient force as though he intended to hew down my father, and at every motion he
                    exclaimed, "Me bad man, me bad man." Father gathered up a chair, and held it
                    between him and the Indian to ward off the blow. In this way he ran my father back to the furthest
                    end of a large house before he could be prevailed upon by my father and the other Indian to desist.
                    Although the other Indian was so far intoxicated that he could not rise to his feet, as far as kind
                    expressions and signs would go to quell the infuriated savage, they were not spared. The apparent
                    manner in which his answers were returned by this enraged being indicated his determination to do as
                    he pleased. We conjectured that when he missed his knife, and that B. had his tomahawk, and was
                    brought at a late hour of the night, that this savage supposed an attempt upon them was premeditated
                    by my father. Though more than 40 years have elapsed since I witnessed this horror-stricken scene,
                    it is impressed on my memory with the freshness of yesterday. I never saw so much of the savage
                    depicted in any being on earth as was in this man. He was very large and well-proportioned and his
                    countenance was expressive of the savage-ness of his nature.
            At this early day there were but few families residing in the wilderness, which is now known as
                    Clarke [
                        Clark
                    ] County. One family resided at the present site of 
                        Charlestown
                    ; a few south and south-east, some three miles, who settled in 1795; a few more some six
                    miles east at a place called Armstrong's station.
            At our first settlement here we belonged to the jurisdiction of 
                        Ohio
                    , or the North-Western Territory, as it was called; which then embraced the country west
                    of Pe[nn]sylvania and bounded by the Ohio River, the lakes, and the 
                        Mississippi
                    ; until 
                        Ohio
                     was formed into a state government which took place near the commencement of the
                    present century; and to 
                        Knox county
                     which was laid off about 1790, of which 
                        Vincennes
                     was the county-seat, to which we had to repair for purposes of county business. At this
                    place the deed of my father's  land was first recorded.
                    I recollect that he, in company with others, was called upon by public authority to convey and
                    deliver up to the county jail a person arrested for crime; and this trip was performed on foot by
                    packing their provisions on their backs; and that, too, in the spring season of the year, when
                    business demanded every moment at home.
            The wild pasture of the unbroken forest was the only dependence for the subsistence of those animals
                    employed by man in cultivating the earth. I have known my father uniformly to go the distance of 3
                    miles in the morning before he could obtain his team for plowing.
            Money was hard to be obtained, so much so, that it became proverbial that 5 dollars paid all the
                    debts which occurred among the first settlers. When one individual would get into straitened
                    circumstances, he would borrow this amount,—and so of the next, etc.
            In early times we that lived immediately in the portion of country where 
                        Charlestown
                     is situated were alarmed frequently on the account of Indian drunkenness and insolence.
                    The place of their general rendezvous, especially of the Shaw-nees and Delawares, was that of
                    Springville, a little village that existed in early times one and a half miles west of 
                        Charlestown
                    , called by the Indians Tooby, from the fact that one of its first settlers bore that
                    name. Here they were swindled out of their skins, venison, and bear meat, by the villainy of a
                    Frenchman. The small amount received, in the general, was that of whiskey,—ruinous to
                    themselves and dangerous to the settlers. From this intoxications were numerous and constant whilst
                    they remained amongst us. When they would leave the trading house at this village it generally was
                    late in the evening, so that they would go no further home-ward than where 
                        Charlestown
                     is located. Here a vast number of beautiful poplars were peeled to form their camps.
                    Here I have heard them at their drunken revelings until the whole region of country would become
                    vocal with yells of horror. The business of the squaws at these drunken sprees was to hide their
                    weapons of death. Drunkenness destroyed among them the feelings of the most endeared relations. The
                    truth of this is verified by the following circumstance: A 
                    quarrel commenced between an Indian brother and sister. It was fanned by angry passions and liquor
                    inflammation to such a degre that the brother threatened his sister with the contents of his gun.
                    She immediately turned her breast towards him and challenged him to fire. He instantly discharged
                    its contents at her, and the result was that one of her breasts was badly mangled and her left arm
                    nearly torn off, so that nothing remained but a small portion of the skin and flesh. In this
                    situation she repaired to one of the neighboring barns and lodged in the barn part of the night.
                    Before day she left and retired to the adjoining woods. Her husband trailed her next morning by her
                    blood and found her lying on the cold damp ground in a valley rolled up in her blanket. He struck up
                    a camp and was doctoring her for several days with preparations of barks and roots contained by
                    different vessels. I saw him there while waiting on her, mingling his tears and sympathies over her
                    sufficiently to move the most callous heart. Her friends were sent for who were distant 15 or 20
                    miles. On arriving at the spot where the sufferer lay, they evinced all the feeling that the most
                    cultivated hearts were capable of displaying. Her husband was prevailed upon by the whites to send
                    to 
                        Louisville
                     for a surgeon to amputate her shattered arm. He complied with their advice, and
                    accordingly it was done, and she recovered.
            Among many of the first settlers of this country immorality existed to a fearful
                    extent—-as they had but few checks to vice—such as Sabbath-breaking,
                    profane-swearing, drunkenness, horse-racing, etc. They would seldom call their neighbors together
                    for mutual assistance in their domestic concerns, without closing with a night's dance.
                    However, to all these vices there were some noble exceptions.
            As it regards the customs of those times, they were those of simplicity and
                    plainness—plainness of dress and address. Their poverty prevented the introduction of
                    superfluity; and their dependence on each other served to endear them to one another in their
                    several associations. These remarks will apply with peculiar force to the professing community of
                    our Church—in those early times—from the pastor to the humblest of his flock.
            
            The state of common-school education wore a gloomy aspect for several years. The first school I ever
                    heard of, and I think it was the first taught in all this region of country, was kept a few months
                    in 1802, one and a half miles south of 
                        Charlestown
                    . In 1803 it was recommenced, and I and my oldest brothers were entered for a short
                    time. We had to commence the first rudiments of language in Dilworth's spelling book, in
                    which we were taught to spell such words as nation with three syllables and
                    pronounce them as two. The qualifications of teachers were very defective, both in pronunciation and
                    correct reading. We were taught to nicname all the vowels of the English alphabet, where they stood
                    alone in a word. And I have thought, had the whole vocabulary of nonsense been ransacked from
                    beginning to end, more foolish names could not have been found. So defective was one teacher in
                    pronunciation, that he taught his scholars to pronounce develope,
                    dev'-el-ope.
            Our first books were generally very far from facilitating an education, or affording material for the
                    mental culture of youths. My two first reading books were Gulliver's Travels, and a dream
                    book. The rigid discipline exercised, the cruelty practiced upon delinquent scholars, as well as
                    long confinement of children to their books, from morning until night, with only recess at
                    noon—were doubtless unfavorable for mental improvement.
            In 1808, the town of 
                        Charlestown
                     was laid off and settled; and men of different professions and different mechanics
                    selected it as the place of their future residence. Its first settlers were mostly moral. In process
                    of time different liquor establishments were got up, and lamentable were their effects upon town and
                    country. To arrest this awfully desolating evil, efforts were devised to establish a temperance
                    society on the old plan. For this purpose the Rev. Mr. Cobb, Pastor of the Presbyterian Church,
                    Judge Scott, Elder in the same Church, and your father met together at his residence, to draw up
                    some general principles bearing immediately on the Temperance cause, and circulate the same among
                    the community, and thereby prepare the public mind for a temperance meeting. Mr. Cobb, having but
                    little experience in this  matter, was difficulted with
                    reference to the most successful plan of operation. I referred him to the Rev. John Strange who had
                    got up different associations. Strange being Presiding Elder on the 
                        Charlestown
                     district, was shortly to hold a campmeeting at Robertson's campground. Here
                    those two Christian gentlemen had an interview with each other; and the result of their
                    deliberations was, to appoint a temperance meeting. Strange was called upon to address the meeting,
                    in conjunction with Dr. Adams, a local preacher, and Judge Ross, together with some Presbyterian
                    ministers. The result of this meeting was, that a number of individuals signed a pledge of entire
                    abstinence from spirituous liquor, as a beverage. This laid the foundation of the great temperance
                    reform which has since taken place in its precincts.
            The first introduction of Methodist preaching in "the 
                        Grant
                    " (from the most reliable sources) was by the late Samuel Parker and Edward
                    Talbott, in the 
                        Spring
                     of 1801. They attended a two-days meeting in 
                        Springville
                    , a village but recently laid off, one and a half miles west of Charleatown. This was
                    before Parker was a traveling preacher—soon after he was licensed to preach. Talbott was
                    also a local preacher: —both from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Benjamin Lakin and Ralph Lotspiech were the first Travelling Preachers sent into the 
                        Grant
                    . They came in 1803. Lakin first visited Gazaway's neighborhood, 5 miles east
                    of 
                        Charlestown
                    , and preached in the woods as early in the 
                        Spring
                     as the weather would permit. He then proposed taking them and Father
                    Robertson's into his regular work, and left appointments for this purpose. To these places,
                    at first they devoted but one day in the round, preaching alternately. at each place. At this time
                    they were appointed to the Salt River and 
                        Shelby
                     circuits. It was not long until Sam. Parker was added to the list of preachers on these
                    circuits, and preached in the 
                        Grant
                    . This was before Parker was received into traveling connection. About harvest time
                    William Houston was also employed to travel the same, and Preached in the 
                        Grant
                    . It is believed that the first society ever formed in the state was organized at old
                    Father Robertson's. It has sometimes been supposed that the first society was formed at
                    Gazaway's: but Bro. Hezekiah Robertson  distinctly
                    recollects, that the first society was formed at his father's; and old Sister Gazaway has
                    often been heard to say, to female members, when excusing themselves for their neglect of
                    class-meetings on account of distance, that she had uniformly gone to class to Nathan
                    Robertson's every two week oa distance of 4 miles; which makes it evident that the first
                    class was organized there; and this must have been done in the 
                        Spring
                     of 1803, when Lakin and Lotspiech, who were at this time traveling the 
                        Shelby
                     and Salt River circuits, came over the Ohio
                    River and took them into their regular work; for there were a few scattered members in
                    the wilderness, and these faithful pastors would gather them into Church-fellowship, at the earliest
                    possible time; and this probably was done in April or May of the above named year. These brethren
                    were succeeded the following conference year by A. (Adject) McGuire and Fletcher Sullivan. Though
                    Mc-Guire was appointed in 1804 to Salt River circuit and 
                        Sullivan
                     to 
                        Shelby
                    , McGuire preached in the 
                        Grant
                     once or twice in conjunction with 
                        Sullivan
                    ; then McGuire ceased, and 
                        Sullivan
                     continued to preach in the 
                        Grant
                     the whole of the year he was on the Shelbyville circuit, and he was very useful. B.
                    Lakin and Peter Cartwright followed them. Their successors were Asa Shim and Moses Ashworth, who
                    were sent in the Fall of 1805 and continued to the Fall of 1806. In 1806 and 1807 Joseph Oglesby and
                    Frederick Hood preached in the 
                        Grant
                    . Hood did not continue long there. Objections being raised to him on account of some
                    connection with slavery, he desisted. Oglesby who traveled the 
                        Shelby
                     circuit this year continued to visit the classes in the Territory. At the close of this
                    year it was thought best to strike off the 
                        Grant
                     into a separate work. Ashworth was sent the next year to take charge of it. A
                    two-weeks' circuit was immediately formed; and soon it was enlarged to a
                    three-weeks' circuit; and continued to extend its boundaries and preaching places, until in
                    1815 it had grown to an eight-weeks' circuit, with only one traveling preacher. At the
                    close of this year it was divided into two separate works.
            Ashworth's year on the Silver-creek circuit, as it was called, closed with a campmeeting,
                    which was held in the  neighborhood of Father
                    Rober[t]son's. Wm. Burke was the Presiding Elder. This was a novel affair in our new
                    country, and it called together vast multitudes of human [beings]. I was in attendance, and still
                    remember Burke's text on Sabbath.
            The first Methodist Church ever built in this state, it is believed, was erected in this neighborhood
                    the proceeding year in August; and to it was attached a beautiful burying ground, where sleep many
                    of the pious dead, who fell during a succession of many long years. The same house is still
                    standing, though occuping a site some little distance from its former site. In this church the first
                    Christmas meeting, ever held in the state, was held in 1807. Rev. James Garner preached on the
                    occasion from these words: "We have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship
                    him."—It is proper to state that during this term of years the newly settled country was
                    supplied with the labors of local brethern who were more or less efficient.
            There were however no special revivals of religion on the Silver Creek circuit until 1809 and 1810.
                    At this period there were a number of accessions to the Church and a number of conversions.
                    Preaching was introduced into 
                        Charlestown
                    . Class-meetings and prayermeetings were established; and such was the attendance on
                    common prayer-meeting occasions, that no house could be obtained sufficiently capacious to
                    accommodate the crowds that would be in attendance; and it was the custom in those times for females
                    to bear a part in public prayers when called upon.
            Previous to this date, and subsequently, Methodism had its opposition, not only from the world but
                    from the misguided zeal of professing Christians. The Arians, the followers of Barton Stone and 
                        Marshall
                    , were active in bringing into disrepute the proper divinity of Jesus Christ, and in
                    discarding all disciplines and confessions of faith. This opposition to this last remark was the
                    most successful with the unthinking masses; and for a while they seemed to bear all before them. The
                    extraordinary exercise of the "Jerks," prevailing so abundant and so uniformly
                    with their congregations, seemed to excite public mind and induce the attendance  of vast crowds. Not that they were entirely confined to the
                    "Newlights," as they were named by public consent; they prevailed at the most of
                    religious meetings.
            Those who embraced the principles of the Calvinian faith were more active than at present in
                    maintaining the peculiarity of their system in opposition to Methodism. One of this school being
                    permitted to preach in one of our churches, conceiving of our doctrines being of such pernicious
                    tendency, regarded it as an imperious duty to expose their fallacy, advertised his congregation,
                    that he had spent a sleepless night in arranging materials for the special occasion. The main point
                    treated on in the discourse was to prove that we have no authority from scripture to believe that
                    Jesus Christ [died] for the whole world. After he labored a length of time to effect this object, he
                    climaxed the whole by remarking that while the Redeemer of mankind was dying on the cross thousands
                    of souls [were suffering] the pains of hell; and the idea was revolting to suppose he could have
                    died for them while thus suffering. As conclusive as this argument was to its inventor, a discerning
                    public could see its fallacy. It was equally obvious to them that at the time our Saviour was
                    suffering on the cross thousands of souls were enjoying the blessings of Paradise; and, of course,
                    by the same paradise [parity of reasoning] were never indebted to the death of Christ for their
                    eternal redemption.
            The greatest check to [the] Methodists and the revival influence above noticed, was the state of
                    warfare entered into between this country and 
                        England
                    , and the Indian hostilities practiced upon the frontier parts of this circuit. Here it
                    might not be amiss to state at some length some of those difficulties. Some time previous to the
                    year 1811, a state of [hostilities] existed with the Indians to the whites. During this year it
                    continued to increase from the prospect between this country and 
                        England
                    , and from the fact that many of the British agents in 
                        Canada
                     and in the North-West were active in increasing this excitement. Tecumseh, who properly
                    represented the disaffected tribes made a tour to the disaffected tribes in the South and South-West
                    to secure their cooperation in striking a fatal blow to frontier settlements. Gov.  Harrison being persuaded of his hostile intentions and of the vigilence
                    he would use, raised an armed force and proceeded up the 
                        Wabash
                    , either to enforce the late treaty—the treaty of Greenville, or to enter
                    upon some new plan that would secure the frontiers from constant alarm. And although he was
                    successful in driving them from their towns and destroying their property after an attack made by
                    them upon his army, the commencement of hostilities in 1812 with this country and 
                        England
                    , and with their supplying the Indians with the means of more efficient warfare tended
                    greatly to exasperate them against us;—accordingly on the 4th of September in this year
                    they commenced an attack on 
                        Fort Harrison
                    , and almost at the precise time they attacked the Pigeon Roost settlement, lying
                    contiguous to Silver Creek circuit. Whether these attacks, which were (as just stated) almost
                    simultaneous, were the result of Indian policy to prevent the citizens of Clarke from rallying to
                    repel their aggressions upon the settlers of the 
                        Wabash
                     country or otherwise, is unknown.
            The Pigeon Roost was so named from the fact that this kind of fowl had resorted to this district of
                    country in vast flocks for many years. Many trees and limbs of the forest were broken down from
                    their accumulated weight. The stench arising from the deposits of large portions of manure was
                    percievable for more than a mile distant. Such was the fertility imparted to those white oak lands
                    that thousands of persons who rallied from 
                        Kentucky
                     and other places when these disturbances took place, were obliged to confess that their
                    productions were not surpassed even in the richest lands of 
                        Kentucky
                    . This country presenting great prospects of game and stock induced a goodly number of
                    families to select locations and move to them. During their residence here they were frequently
                    visited by the 
                        Delaware
                    , Shawnee and Potta-wotomie Indians; who professed to be very friendly. It was believed
                    that [they] were the very Indians that murdered the Pigeon Roost settlers.
            The manner of the attack was somewhat as follows: As they approached within about 3 miles of the
                    settlement, they accidentally came across Mr. Pain [Jeremiah Payne] and Mr. Coffman and murdered
                    them both. Coffman lived in Ken-  tucky—was on a
                    visit to Pain. They were both beehunting, without any arms—so little apprehensive of
                    danger were they. They next came across Mrs. Collins, wife of young Henry Collins, who had been on a
                    visit some 3 miles to a neighbor's living near Vienna, and killed her as she was returning
                    home. The first family they fell upon was Pain's, consisting of a wife and 4 children. From
                    appearances [they] must have been killed in different directions from the house,—were
                    dragged trailing the ground with their blood, and thrown into the house; and after plundering it of
                    its contents, was fired and burnt to ashes,—the mangled bodies having undergone the same
                    process of fire until nothing remained but one mass of offensive matter. The time of this attack was
                    late in the evening, the sun about an hour and a half high. Richard Collins' family [were]
                    destroyed by them, consisting of his wife and 7 children. It was sickening to humanity to witness
                    their mangled bodies strewed in different directions, hewed down as they were endeavoring to escape
                    from their barbarous enemies. Collins himself was absent from home—belonged to the
                    company of rangers, and was at this time at 
                        Vincennes
                    . At the same time they killed the family of Mr. John Morris, consisting of his wife and
                    three children—the families residing within a short distance of each other. Mr. Morris
                    was also absent—-was drafted to meet the call of Gov. Harrison for the 
                        Wabash
                     country, and was now on the march as far as 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . They next proceeded to old Mr. William Collins'. On their way to this place
                    they met with young Henry Collins. He had been at his father's pulling hemp. His only
                    chance of escaping was to retreat back to the house of his father. In doing this he attempted to
                    cross a meadow. Here his retreat was intercepted by an Indian. He then entered a cornfield, was
                    fired upon by an Indian, he afterward said, he perfectly knew, by the name of Killbuck, who was one
                    of those friendly tribes and was well known by many of the first settlers of Clarke. The ball
                    entered the back part of his head, and broke the skull-bone; he fell as though perfectly dead. This
                    was the first gun they had fired after they had killed the two first,—doubtless fearing
                    the sound of the guns would alarm the families in the neighborhood. They  left Henry Collins unmolested. This was done on Thursday evening. He
                    revived so as to escape to an old flaxhouse on the farm. Here he was found on Saturday about
                    noon—was occasionally in his right mind—lived near a week, and then expired.
                    The firing of the gun was not however heard by any of old Mr. Collins' family. As they
                    approached nearer the house they discovered a boy, one of Mr. Collins family, who had just caught a
                    horse to hunt the cattle. He fled to a brier thicket near at hand and concealed himself. The Indians
                    ran round it and passed through it in different directions, but without success. The little fellow
                    said he could peep under the matted briers and vines, and see their maneuvers; and sometimes they
                    would seem as though they would step right on him, and then would bear off. Here he remained until
                    after they had attacked the house; and in the midst of the attack he rushed up to the house, and was
                    let in. A few minutes before Henry Collins was shot, Capt. Norris, from the neighborhood of 
                        Charlestown
                    , some 15 miles distant, had arrived at old Mr. Collins'. Being old
                    acquaintances he felt concerned for the family. The object of his visit was to settle some pecuniary
                    matters, and to dissuade him from remaining any longer in his exposed condition. The old gentleman
                    had just brought a fine parcel of water-melons; and while they were devouring them, he presented the
                    object of his visit; and inquired of Mr. Collins whether he was not apprehensive of danger from the
                    Indians. Mr. Collins replied in the negative. While thus engaged in conversation, their attention
                    was arrested by the appearance of a dog. Mr. Norris looked up the way, and discovered 7 or 9 Indians
                    approaching with a quick step, and the war paint on their cheeks. He exclaimed, "Here they
                    come now." "Not to kill," said Mr. Collins. "Yes to
                    kill." Invention was set immediately to work [to] devise a method of defense. Mr. Collins
                    having at hand two loaded rifle-guns, directed Mr. Norris to take one of them and station himself by
                    the side of the door and he would guard the window. The Indians in their approach were discovered by
                    Mr. John Richey and his wife, a young married couple residing a small distance from
                    Collins'. They instantly fled into the cornfield and escaped. As the Indians entered the
                    yard, a part of them stationed  themselves behind the corn-crib;
                    a part passed on to Richey's house; and one of them presented himself at the door of
                    Collins' to push it open. At him Capt. Norris pulled trigger, when the gun was not more
                    than three feet from his breast, and his gun flashed. The door was instantly closed. Mr. Collins,
                    perceiving his body through the cracks of the door, fired his rifle and instantly the Indian left.
                    Blood was percieved the next day in the yard. Mr. Collins loaded his piece again; and percieving one
                    standing in Mr. Richey's door, took a deadly aim, and when he fired the Indian fell back
                    into the house; the door was instantly closed. Collins was a distinguished marks-man. He felt
                    certain his rifle had performed execution this fire. As part of the Indians were now in the house
                    and part behind the corncrib, it was supposed they would wait the closing in of the shades of night,
                    and then proceed to fire the house; and as the house was composed of two cabins without a pass
                    inside from one room into the other, it was thought they might easily effect this object. The only
                    possible chance of escape was to leave the house and pass through the fire of the Indians from
                    behind the corncrib, and if possible gain a corncrib that lay hard by. Accordingly the hazardous
                    plan was determined on. Between daylight and dark Capt. Norris 'proceeded in the advance,
                    followed by two children and Mr. Collins in the rear with his gun cocked and presented before him.
                    As they advanced with a quick step Collins was fired upon by them. A ball struck his gun about the
                    lock. Its violence whirled him right about. And after he had gained the proper poise of his body,
                    and had turned himself in the way of retreat he had lost Capt. Norris and the two children; and
                    after running some distance in the cornfield he halted to see if they were pursuing him, and give
                    them one fire. In this position he tried to cock his gun, and found it so damaged as to be able to
                    do nothing with it. He then proceeded in haste to the woods, and so escaped. During this last attack
                    the Indians yelled most horribly. From this it was manifest that they intended to proceed no
                    further—that they had glutted their hellish desires. Some little time after this, when it
                    was properly dark, Mrs. Biggs, daughter of Collins, hearing the firing of the guns, the distance of
                    half a mile,  proceeding with her 4 children (her husband having
                    been drafted and now in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    ) and when she came near her father's house she left her children by the side
                    of the road and proceeded alone to her father's house and pushed open the
                    door;—the smell of powder being so strong she instantly became alarmed, returned to her
                    children, and traveled with them some six miles to Zebulon Collins',—and by this
                    means the alarm of the Indians was first brought into the older settlements before
                    day.—The absence of the Indians from the house of Collins when Mrs. Biggs entered the
                    door is enveloped in mystery. For shortly after this they fired the buildings and they were seen
                    burning. It was supposed that Mr. Collins had killed one or two of them, and that they had now left
                    to conceal their dead. Be it as it may, Mrs. Biggs made a most narrow escape.
            Collins and Norris, as above stated, having lost each other, at the entering of the cornfield, got
                    together no more that night. Norris proceeded with the two children, through the dark brush and
                    briers, avoiding every pathway, crossing hill and dale and frequently falling with the children into
                    deep ravines, until he lost his direction, and after some hours travel he found himself near the
                    farm from which he had started, and beheld the buildings consuming by fire. He proceeded the second
                    [time] to stear his way for the settlements. At a late hour, being wearied with fatigue he and the
                    children laid themselves down to rest on the ground until the morning star arose. He then proceeded
                    to prosecute his journey, and finally arrived to one of the older settlements. The girl was so badly
                    bruised that it was found necessary to call on a physician to administer relief. Before day a runner
                    was sent to alarm the citizens of 
                        Charlestown
                     and its vicinity. As he approached the town, in passing our residence, I heard him just
                    after daylight exclaiming, "Indians! Indians! Indians!" The whole country was
                    thrown into a state of perfect confusion; and before sunset vast crowds found their way across the
                        Ohio river. The cruel masacres by the Indians in a previous war, were yet
                    fresh in the minds of the people, hence they were easily affrighted. A number of men were raised to
                    pursue the savages, but to no purpose. They must have left sooning  after they had finished [their] horrid work at old Mr.
                    Collins'; for the next day [Indians] were discovered by a scouting party of our men from 
                        Washington county
                    , on the Chestnut ridge in 
                        Jackson county
                    , in the direction from [the] Muskaketuch [Muscatatuck] river for
                    Rockfurd; and had there been any management in the commanding officer, a number of them might have
                    been killed:—for they were first discovered by our men, and had they concealed
                    themselves, they might have dealt a deadly blow on the Indians; but as soon as they were discovered
                    orders were given to charge. As part of the Indians were walking and part riding on those animals
                    they had taken from the Whites, loaded with the plunder taken from the murdered families; they
                    instantly commenced cutting loose a portion of their baggage to lessen their incumbrance in a speedy
                    flight. While doing this, the footmen among them selected positions behind logs and trees and fired
                    at our men. As they attempted to play the same game with the Indians, one of the rangers
                    unthoughtedly drew sight from the wrong side of the tree, where his body was exposed to their view,
                    and received a mortal wound. He was, however, removed to a station and soon expired. There were near
                    twenty in company on this occasion: more than what was supposed to have been at the Pigeon Roost.13
            
            In the spring of 1813 another party of Indians or the same came within 9 miles of Charlestown into
                    the neighborhood of Zebulon Collins, and having concealed themselves behind a bank of Silver Creek
                    shot into the house of Mr. Huffman, killed the old gentleman, and shot a ball through his
                    wife,—supposed to be mortal, but she finally recovered. They took his grandson prisoner,
                    who was about 9 years old, kept him some 9 years. The connection applied to Government for means to
                    ascertain where he was, and to redeem him. During this time he had become almost savage. It was with
                    some difficulty he could be prevailed upon to leave the savage tribes and return home to his
                    friends. At the time that Huffman was killed, there was a company of men stationed at Z.
                    Collins' within a few hundred yards of Huffman's house; 
                  
                     13 The Pigeon Roost settlement and especially the massacre, Sept. 3,
                            1812, are commemorated by a tall monumental shaft dedicated Oct. 1, 1904, south of
                            Scottsburg, not far from state road number 1.—[Editor.]
               
                     but as this was the Sabbath day they had left their station to
                    visit a family of young people some distance off, contrary to their duty as soldiers; and hence were
                    unable to repel the savage attacks of the enemy. Some of the men having returned in the evening, a
                    Mr. Perry about dark attempted to carry an express into the settlement of Charlestown; in passing
                    down Silver Creek about a mile and a half he came across seven Indians. They ran him in the bottoms
                    of Silver Creek, across gullies and timber and shot at him. It was with the utmost effort he made
                    his way back to the fort. After it became dark he attempted to pass the same route and succeeded. As
                    soon as information was conveyed into the older settlements by Mr. Perry, men were instantly raised
                    to pursue them. It was thought necessary to alarm those families, mostly exposed, of their perilous
                    condition. Accordingly a Mr. Reed proposed to go to Mr. Elliott's for this purpose. Being
                    in possession of a belt which he had worn during the Tipacanoe expedition, he again employed it to
                    compress his body to the smallest possible size. He proceeded to the place above named, and as he
                    came in sight of it he was fired upon by a company of Indians, 8 in number, who had concealed
                    themselves behind a fallen tree, waiting a favorable opportunity to kill the family. Five discharged
                    their guns at him at the same instant, but all without injury to Mr. Reed,—although some
                    balls passed through his clothes, one cut his belt nearly in two. One or two entered the animal he
                    was riding. He however succeeded with it to make his escape. Men were soon raised to follow their
                    trail; but their skill in retreating,—in passing down rivulets and streams made this
                    difficult to be done. From the number of horses stolen by these savages, and other signs, it was
                    manifest that [they had] sallied forth in different portions of the frontier settlements embraced in
                    the bounds of old Silver Creek circuit. Those families who did not entirely leave their homes and
                    places of security and defence, and companies of men were raised and stationed at those places to
                    guard the frontier settlers. 
            Our traveling preachers continued to travel sometime after these Indian disturbances prevailed, being
                    guarded on  different occasions to their appointments. At last
                    they gave up their regular work and left the country. I recollect of attending an appointment for a
                    quarterly meeting, and that too within 6 miles of 
                        Charlestown
                    ; when there was neither presiding elder, circuit preacher, nor people except those who
                    went with me. The paralyzing effects of these things to the spread of the Gospel and Church
                    extension was not recovered for years.
            In reflecting upon these Indian disturbances and massacres which were witnessed by the first settlers
                    of this country, and of the wild and almost unbroken condition of the forest, who would have
                    supposed [that] even at this distance of time, in those very neighborhoods, where the warwhoop of
                    the Indian was heard—where he prowled around the dwellings of unprotected families with
                    his tomahawk and scalping knife—and that within a few yards [of] where sleeps the
                    moldering dust of many who fell victims to death by his bloody hands:—that there these
                    valleys are cheered by the passing and repassing of the locomotive engine, that most brilliant gift
                    of Philosophy to man, which rushes along with its noble train, shaking the earth with the majesty of
                    its tread, and vying with the eagle with the ease and swiftness of its motion, which constitutes a
                    vehicle for hundreds of delightful passengers:—that there in each of those neighborhoods
                    where individuals thus suffered and died is a camp-ground, erected for public worship, where
                    thousands have listened to the clangor of the Gospel, have hung with delight upon the lips of the
                    preacher, and have united in the praise of Almighty God? All this is even so, and the past year I
                    was permitted to be in attendance at each of those places.
            A second revival of religion with which this circuit was favored (though its name was now changed)
                    was in the fall of 1819. It commenced at the campmeeting, held at Jacob's Campground. Never
                    did I witness such a season of awakening and converting power. Many, very many on that occasion made
                    a profession of experimental religion. This blessed work continued to spread this conference year,
                    until the whole of the circuit shared in its saving results. Tho' I have referred to two
                    seasons of revival influence witnessed by the  first settlers of
                    this country, I would not intimate the intervals were entirely barren of such influences; but the
                    periods above referred to were more eminently distinguished in this respect.
            Such a thing as a Sabbath-school was not heard of for many years by the first settlers of this
                    country; and when the subject was first agitated about one, it was opposed by different persons, and
                    by some too who were official members of our church, as being a reflection on the citizens of the
                    place, as not being able to school their children at common schools.—The catechetical
                    instruction of children by the ministers of our Church, according to its discipline, was not
                    entirely overlooked at the first introduction of Methodism here. I recollect that the minister who
                    was the regular pastor on the Silver Creek circuit in 1810 purchased a number of catechisms at his
                    own expense and bestowed them to the children of the members of the Church, who were advanced
                    sufficient to read, and formed regular classes round the circuit, and met them for [the] purpose of
                    prayer, recitation, and advice. In one of those classes I was placed and learned to recite the whole
                    of our church catechism. This I have found to be beneficial to me through the whole course of my
                    life.
            My connection with the Church, as a member on trial, was [made] in the fall of 1809, when I was a
                    little turned of my fifteenth year, under the ministry of Sela Pain, one of the most devoted men I
                    ever knew. It was some length of time after this before I obtained a sense of saving mercy. Soon
                    after this my mind became impressed with the necessity of preparing for the ministry. Had
                    circumstances been such as to have favored me with scientific training, how gladly would I have
                    embraced the opportunity. For the want of suitable advice I deferred this matter for a number of
                    years. In September 1813 I preached my first sermon from these words: "Be reconciled unto
                    God." I spoke some 45 minutes, with no small liberty. It was the first time I ever
                    attempted to arise and speak in public, whether in the class-room or love-feast. It occasioned as
                    much surprise as though a ship had sailed on dry land. A recommend from the class was immediately
                    obtained for license to preach; but attendance at quarterly meeting  was prevented by the sickness of my father. A permit was given by the
                    church to exercise my gift as a preacher until the closing quarterly meeting of the circuit. This I
                    thought was unwarranted by the Discipline of the Church; so I refused to exercise anywhere except in
                    my class; and this was but occasional; until the annual examination in 1819. At this time I was
                    first formally licensed to preach. In the fall of 1820 I was recommended to the traveling
                    connection, and appointed to Mount Sterling Circuit in 
                        Crawford county
                    ; which was then one of the most gloomy regions in the state. This circuit embraced a
                    very poor and broken part of the state. Many of the people were destitute of the necessaries of
                    life, and of course I had to share with them in this matter. On one occasion I recollect to have
                    visited a family, preached, and remained with them for 24 hours and then leave without breaking my
                    fast, simply because they had nothing themselves—the head of the family having gone a
                    distance to procure breadstuff and failing to return while I remained.—This was a four
                    weeks circuit. The number of attempts to preach must have averaged with the number of days in the
                    year, and I must have traveled three thousand miles; and this without any quarterage except a few
                    dollars worth of sugar for my family.
            In 1821 I was appointed to Flatrock circuit, and traveled until 1822. The bounds of this were
                    somewhat as follows: commencing at a point within 10 miles of 
                        Madison
                    ; thence in a westward direction within 5 miles of Brow[n]stown; thence up
                        White River, crossing back and forth to the mouth of Flatrock, Blue River,
                    Sugar Creek; up these creeks some distance; thence across Flatrock, Clifty, Sand Creek, the head
                    branch of the Muskaketuc river to the beginning. This route was performed in 4
                    weeks. The whole amount of quarterage received this year, in produce and money, was about 29
                    dollars. No account was taken of moving to and from the circuit.—In 1822–3 to
                        Blue River circuit. This was a 6 weeks' circuit, embracing an
                    extensive territory of country. My quarterage here was about 39 dollars—My fourth
                    appointment was back to old Mt. Sterling. Here was an abundance of hard labor, and but little
                    support,—My fifth appointment  to 
                        Corydon
                    :—sixth to 
                        Madison
                     circuit.—This ended my first tour in the itinerant field. My horse being
                    foundered died and I was set afoot. In this situation I applied for a location at conference, and it
                    was granted,—The whole amount of my quarterage for these six years was about
                    $258.00. No account for table expenses, house rent, or the disciplinary [allowance for]
                    children.
            After a location of about 9 years, I reentered the traveling work in 1835, and was appointed to the
                    following circuits, viz: 
                        Lexington
                    , 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                        Lexington
                     again, 
                  Salem, Columbus
               , and Greenville. At the close of this year I again
                    located, and so remained until 1849, at which time I received an appointment for 
                        White
                     Creek Circuit. This conference year closed up my itinerant career.
            One more item and I am done, and that is with reference to the annual conference which held its
                    session in Charles-town. This should have been noticed in a different place. It commenced its
                    session there August 1825. It was denominated the 
                        Illinois
                     conference and embraced the whole of the two states. Bishops McKendree and Roberts were
                    in attendance. McKendree arrived a few days before the sitting of the conference. He proceeded to
                    visit some of the adjoining neighborhoods for the purpose of preaching. He returned the day before
                    conference and preached to the citizens of the town. He preached twice during conference much to the
                    satisfaction of the vast crowds that were in attendance. His method was simple and
                    plajn—rarely surpassed as a profound reasoner. When he arose to address an audience the
                    gracefulness of his person, the gravity of his appearance, convinced them that more than an ordinary
                    man was before them. There was, I thought, quite a falling off with the bishop in point of intellect
                    from the time I first heard him in 1810.—Bishop Roberts preached
                    twice—Saturday at 11 A.M., and Sabbath afternoon. This was an ordination sermon from the
                    words: "Yea doubtless, and I count all things loss" &c. It was one of his
                    happiest efforts. Dr. Ruter preached the 11 o'clock sermon on Sabbath much to the
                    satisfaction of listining thousands.
            It was at this conference that the disciplinary allowance  for
                    the children of preachers' families, table expenses and house-rent was first introduced and
                    acted upon. This was done by Peter Cartwright. When he first introduced it Bishop Roberts remarked,
                    that it had never been practiced upon before in this conference. Cartwright remarked, he presumed
                    the conference had never been properly organized.
            The subject of missions occupied the attention of the conference to some extent; especially with
                    reference to one that was about to [be] established with a nation of Indians to the Northwest of
                    Illenois.
            The above is a verbatim copy (except words included in [ ]) from manuscripts furnished me by my
                    father, REV. GEORGE KNIGHT HESTER.
            F. A. HESTER.14
            
            II. CIVIL, ECCLESIASTICAL
                    AND EDUCATIONAL HISTORY
                    OF CLARK'S GRANT
            
            GEORGE KNIGHT HESTER.
            The Civil History of Clarke's 
                        Grant
                    .
            The organization of the county of Clarke was in 1801, in which the 
                        Grant
                     was contained, and was named after the celebrated George Rogers Clarke, who at one time
                    was a citizen of the county. At its first organization it was far more extended than at the present.
                    Its boundaries as defined by the Governor:—Beginning at the mouth of [the] Big
                        Blue river; thence up that river to the crossing of the 
                        Vincennes
                     road; thence in a direct line to the nearest point on [the] White
                    river; thence up that river to its source and to Fort Recovery; thence on the line of the
                    North West Territory to the 
                        Ohio
                    , at the mouth of [the] Kentucky river; thence to the beginning.
                        
                  
                     14 The Reverend Francis Asbury Hester was for many years a prominent
                            member of the Indiana Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and a frequent
                            contributor to the Western. Christian Advocate.
               
                     But long since it has been greatly pared down, to its present
                    dimensions.
            The first court held in the 
                        Grant
                     was April 7, 1801. Eight of the original settlers of the 
                        Grant
                     were appointed by the Governor Justices of the Court of General Quarter Sessions. I
                    could name these; the most of them I knew. This was at a village called Springville, one mile and a
                    half [south] west of 
                        Charlestown
                    .
            Under the Territorial government efforts were made to introduce slavery into the Territory, by most
                    of the ruling men, notwithstanding the Ordinance of 1787 forbidding the introduction of slavery or
                    involuntary servitude within its limits. Hence, laws were made to "indenture" (as
                    it was called) the African race for a number of years. This was not, however, in accordance with the
                    wishes of a majority of the citizens. When Mr. Jennings became candidate for Congress, having
                    published his sentiments as being opposed to slavery, and having been raised in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , a free State, he far outstripped his competitor, who was suspected on that subject.
            The citizens of the Territory had no voice, neither directly nor indirectly, in the forming of those
                    laws by which they were governed, until 1805, which was the time of the sitting of the first
                    legislature. Until this session they were governed by laws made by the Governor and judges, from
                    time to time, as circumstances seem[ed] to require, to be enforced until disapproved by Congress. It
                    is the clear conviction of my mind, as far as my limited means of information extended, and my
                    capacity in my boyhood and youth would enable me to judge, that there was but little of that party
                    spirit manifested at our elections in choosing our representatives which characterizes them in the
                    present day. They were not cursed with the fell demon of discord which now threatens the desolation
                    of our 
                        Union
                    .
            The Ecclesiastical History of the 
                        Grant
                    .
            I have already given you some information respecting this. Though I kept the copy of what I wrote
                    you, it was kept on  loose sheets—some are lost. My
                    memory does not serve me [so] as to recollect all I said.
            The first ecclesiastical organization in the 
                        Grant
                     was the Regular Baptist Church. I think this was in 1801. It was called the Silver
                    Creek church. Next was the Methodist Episcopal Church. In writing my sketches, I availed myself of
                    evidences from the most reliable sources. Besides my own knowledge of things, Hezekiah Robertson was
                    my principal informant. I think his memory did not serve him in some matters respecting the first
                    forming of classes in the 
                        Grant
                    . A few days before the Old Settlers' Meeting here [in 1858,] I went to see old
                    Father Andrew Mitchell, who is 86 years old, just lingering on the shores of mortality, declining
                    fact with an eating cancer on his breast for 20 years; who also was a member of the Gazaway class
                    almost from its first formation. He told me that when McKendree was Presiding Elder of the 
                        Kentucky
                     District, he called at "Jack" Bates', as he was called, who
                    was a local preacher, and left his horse, and requested him to canoe him across the Ohio
                        river—for this was the only means of crossing—so that he might
                    attend a meeting at old Father Gazaway's, 5 miles east of Charles-town, arrangements being
                    made for some of Gazaway's family meeting him, with a horse, at the river. Mitchell
                    accordingly set him across in an old tottering dugout. Mitchell went with him to the meeting. Mc,
                    Kendree preached; after preaching formed a class at Gazaway's, appointed old Samuel Bullick
                    class-leader; and formed a class for the Robertson's members that were in attendance, to
                    meet at old Nathan Robertson's house, and appointed Zephaniah Robertson Class leader for
                    that place. Mc, Kendree was then conveyed back to the river. He then beset Mitchell to take him to 
                        Louisville
                    , some 16 miles, to preach. Mitchell hesitated on account of the tottering condition of
                    the canoe. Being pressed by Mc, Kendree, he remarked that if Mc, Kendree could risk his life, he
                    ought; so off they shoved for the destined place. When they had got near the landing where Utica now
                    is, Mc, Kendree told him they must stop and meet Benjamin Edge, a young preacher whom Mc, Kendree
                    had sent from Bates's (with a man who was Keeping a stable horse for Bates at old Nathan
                    Robert-  son's) to make his way to old Father
                    Prather's and preach for the people. So they tied up their craft to the shore, and walked
                    some three miles, arrived at meeting in time, Mc, Kendree preached, formed a class for the
                    neighborhood where New Chapel now is, some six miles south of 
                        Charlestown
                    . They then steered their way back on foot to the craft, proceeded on their journey to 
                        Louisville
                    . Mc, Kendree had an appointment made at Candle-lighting, in the court house, and
                    preached. The next day being Sabbath, he appointed preaching for 11 o'clock and at night.
                    In the winding up of his service there he formed a class for 
                        Louisville
                    , the first ever formed there. On Monday they paddled their way back, 16 miles, to
                    Bates', where he got his horse, set out for Shelbyville, Mitchell piloting him several
                    miles on his way. Mc, Kendree then directed the preachers to take them in their circuit; so they
                    came in the month of May. I inquired of Mitchell if he recollected what year Mc, Kendree formed
                    those classes. Said he did not. I then asked him if there was no circumstance by which he could come
                    at the date. After studying awhile, he said there was. The date of the deed of his land would
                    determine this, for he had bought it of Bates, and the deed was given the same year that Mc, Kendree
                    came over. I feel a doubt whether his memory serves him with reference to the date. I think it will
                    not correspond with the Minutes of Conference. I have no means now of determining this. This
                    circumstance would be an important item in the history of the labors of the first pioneers of
                    Methodism. I should have said above that the deed was obtained in 1804.
            Had I time to extend my remarks with reference to the history of ecclesiastical affairs, I might say
                    that the first regular Presbyterian preaching in the 
                        Grant
                    , at least near 
                        Charlestown
                    , was by Rev. Mr. Todd, nephew of the celebrated Davies of 
                        Virginia
                    . Mr. Todd was a man of fine education, of good natural abilities, but a very moderate
                    preacher. He had given up the peculiarities of Calvinism, and was Arminian with reference to the
                    provisions of the Gospel being made for fallen man. I have already stated that the "New
                    Lights" commenced operations in the 
                        Grant
                     about the years 1806–7. Their regular and most successful preachers were a
                    Mr.
            
            Mc,Clang and a Mr. Nance. Mc, Clang had been a Presbyterian elder; Nance a Methodist preacher. For
                    some cause they became disaffected with their former churches. Neither of them having been immersed,
                    they deemed it important to have baptism performed in this mode; hence, as I was creditably
                    informed, on a certain occasion Mr. Nance, being the oldest preacher, to[ok] Mr. Mc, Clung and
                    immersed him; then Mr. Mc, Clung immersed Mr. Nance. They looked upon themselves as being validly
                    baptized. They were industrious in preaching, especially Mr. Mc, Clung, and gathered a considerable
                    number into their so-called Church. As their meetings were uniformly held on the Sabbath, they had
                    the advantage of the Methodist ministry in the 
                        Grant
                    , as it was on the week days. This doubtless was the cause why the Methodist Church in
                    its first introduction was not able to compete with other churches.
            The Educational History of the 
                        Grant
                    .
            On this I have also made some brief statements. In addition to those already, I remark that the Rev.
                    Mr. Todd, just referred to, occasionally taught some individuals in the higher branches. His tuition
                    fee was $40 per year. Also a Mr. Graham taught school in 
                        Charlestown
                     about the years 9, 10, and 11. He was a good scholar. I set in with him to learn
                    something about the English Grammar. A Mr. Roydon was employed by the month and winter season by my
                    father to teach his own children. I learned the theory of Surveying with him. He was a tolerable
                    scholar and a good instructor. He also taught school for a year or two in the town of Charles-town.
                    In 1819 there were two teachers came to 
                        Charlestown
                     by the name of Craughherr; were said to be good scholars; taught school a year or two.
            I do not know whether I said anything about the first Sabbath-school that was introduced into 
                        Charlestown
                    , in May 1820. It was a 
                        Union
                     school in which were united different denominations and the world. It was attended well
                    both by teachers and children. Judge Scott was the Superintendent of the male part, and your mother
                    of the females. It was held on the principle of giving rewards for committing portions of Scripture,
                    due attendance, and good behavior.
            
            I have studiously avoided saying anything about the succession of schools taught by your mother in 
                        Charlestown
                    , commenced in 1817. But perhaps I should not pass them by. They were mostly of a female
                    character; small boys were admitted; and sometimes those that were pretty well grown. These schools
                    were generally prosperous. The many female teachers she prepared—the length of time she
                    taught in 
                        Charlestown
                    , some 10 or 12 years—the circumstance that she had four of Parson
                    Todd's sons in school at one time, who while living here never sent his children to any
                    other teacher, is proof that she possessed rare abilities as a tutoress. You ought to recollect
                    something respecting some of those schools, for the day you were 4 years old she commenced your
                    schooling, and learned you the Alphabet the same day.—I could say something about the
                    educational history of this place down to the present time, but this is not necessary.
            You have a wish that I would give a fuller detail of matters and things of gone by
                    days,—at least down to my father's death. I have had thought of reviewing my
                    sketches, and of adding much more, and of publishing them in some of the periodicals of the day. But
                    if Eddy proceeds with the book in contemplation my doing this might forestall the sale of the work
                    in some degree. Hence I have declined. Melville wished me to arrange the items of history respecting
                    civil affairs, and he would publish it in his paper. I have but little more time to write, and
                    little room.
            Adieu for the present.
            G. K. HESTER.
            III AUTOBIOGRAPHY
                    OF MRS. BENEE HESTER,
                        WIFE
                    OF GEORGE KNIGHT HESTER.15
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           "August 23,1851.
                        Dear Son:—
                        In the following pages I have tried, as well as I could, to give you the outlines of
                                    some of the items I understood you desired. Whether I have done it to your
                                    satisfaction or not you will know when you read them. I have  had nothing but my own imperfect memory to assist me. I
                                    have just scrawled down what first came in mind. I have not written or copied any of
                                    it over. I suppose you can cull what you want from it. If I have omitted any
                                    particulars about which you wish to know more you can let me know.
                        
                                    "Benee Hester."
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            "I was born Dec. 12, 1789. My father, Thomas Briggs, was a descendant from an English
                    family, but born and raised (I believe) in Fifeshire, 
                        Scotland
                    ; married my mother, Catharine Cunning, in the town of Dunfermlin, moved her to the
                    country, some few miles from town, where he settled on a farm, on which they remained until they
                    emigrated to America, which was in my fourth year.
            I know but little about the ancestry of my father. They were, I believe, a religious family of the
                    Presbyterian Church. I know that my father was a communicant of that order.
            My father's father, Andrew Briggs (or "Bridges," as they called them in 
                        Scotland
                    ), died when my father was quite young. His oldest brother David, and William a younger
                    brother (only 16 years old), left their mother and family and came to the 
                        United States
                    . Then all the care of the family fell upon my father. The family then left at home
                    consisted of six children and the mother, (illegible) my father, and two brothers, Andrew and John,
                    both his junior, [and] three sisters, Isabel, Ann, and Ephra. He staid with them and managed for
                    them till he was 28 years old, at which period he married my mother.
            My mother was a pure Scot, or a descendant of the old Caledonian race. Her father, James Cunning, I
                    know nothing about; only, he died when she was but six years old; her mother, when she was nine. She
                    had several sisters and one brother. Her oldest sister, Mary, was married to a man by the name of
                    M'Queen, with whom, after the death of her mother she tried to live, but finding him to be
                    a hard, dis 
                  
                     15 The children of George Knight and Eenee Eriggs Hester were: George
                            Knight, born Dec. 16, 1820: Francis Asbury, born April 4, 1522, died Dec. 17, 1906; Matthias
                            Addison, born Sept. 20, 1824; Thomas Briggs, born Sept. 3, 1826, died May 13, 1927: William
                            McKendree, born Feb. 25, 1828, died June 2, 1900: Andrew Brilbgs. born April 21, 1830, died
                            April 21, 1870; Melville C., born Jan. 20, 1834.
               
                     agreeable man, in her 10th year she left him, and found her way
                    to Dunfermline, where two of her mother's brothers lived, John and James Reed. John was a
                    married man, a merchant in good circumstances, and had no children. He took her and educated her,
                    and treated her well. Her uncle James was a helpless man,—had lost the use of himself
                    when young, so much so that he could not feed himself. He lived near his brother John. And so soon
                    as mother was able to do any thing, she and her brother James Cunning became his nurses as long as
                    he lived; when he died they fell heirs to what he had. Her uncle John having no children to keep up
                    his name, with the most of his wealth founded a hospital in Dunfermline for poor children, which I
                    suppose bears the name of Reed's hospital to this day. He left my mother a considerable sum
                    of money, which remained in bank till she was married,—which was in her 20th year; then
                    of course it fell into my father's hands. He had to make use of some of it to settle off
                    debts necessarily contracted in raising his father's family. So they went to house-keeping
                    in only moderate circumstances.
            My father was very anxious to move to America from the first of their going together, but mother was
                    bitterly opposed, and would not consent until she saw how hard it was for him to make a living for
                    his family by farming where rents were high and where he could not own a foot of land. I have heard
                    her say she had not given her consent to move but a very short time before he was ready to move. As
                    soon as he obtained her consent, he made arrangements for leaving. He sold all his stock and nearly
                    all their heavy furniture and house-hold stuff,—amounting, I have heard my mother say, to
                    more than 100 lbs. sterling. It was all sold at [on] a year's credit; at the expiration of
                    which time my father intended to return and collect it and pay for land for which he had bargained
                    with a man who had been in the 
                        United States
                    , and who had located land near old 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               .
            Immediately after the sale, they packed up all they had left, and bid farewell to the home of their
                    youth, to try their fortunes in the (then called) 'New World'. I do not know  where they took shipping; but I think I have heard my mother
                    say, they moved sixty miles by land; all I recollect is that we rode in some kind of a carriage that
                    had glass windows in it. We had to take passage in an American vessel, it being against the law for
                    British subjects to leave the country. After suffering all the storms and sea-sickness of a tedious
                    nine weeks' trip, we were set on shore at 
                        Norfolk
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , sometime in December 1793, the month in which I was 4 years old. From Norfolk we were
                    conveyed to Stafford county, in carriages or wagons (for I don't mind which), where my
                    father's two brothers had settled. We went into the house with Uncle David, where my father
                    expected to stay while he made preparations to prosecute the remaining part of his journey to 
                        Kentucky
                    . We remained there during the winter. My father bought horses and a wagon, but, I
                    suppose, did not intend moving till fall; for he fixed for farming, and put in a crop. In April,
                    after we landed in 
                        Virginia
                    , my youngest sister was born. That and the necessary arrangement he had to make for the
                    journey, I judge, made him postpone his removal to 
                        Kentucky
                     so long. He never intended settling, when he left 
                        Scotland
                    , till he reached the neighborhood of old 
                        Lexington
                    . He commenced working his crop, and continued to labor till the hot weather set in,
                    when he was seized with the fevers. Being unacquainted with the diseases of the country, they knew
                    not-how to manage it. They sent for a person who pretended to know something about medicine. He gave
                    him a large dose of tartar, without the necessary precautions. My father, in the height of the
                    operation of the medicine, when the fever was raging high, demanded cold water. It was given him. He
                    drank what he wanted; which stopped the operation of the medicine,—after which nothing
                    could be done to save him. He lived several weeks. A considerable part of the time he was so
                    deranged, mother could not keep him in his bed. Young as I was, I remember how much we were
                    frightened to see him leave his bed and the house and wander away in the field with nothing but his
                    night clothes on. From what mother has since tolg me, I think his mind was struggling with something
                    she at that time did not fairly understand. She said, one day, some two weeks before he  died, he asked her for paper, pen, and ink. She got them for him. He
                    told her to write. She asked him what she should write. He said, 'Write that Christ is a
                    rock that cannot be divided.' Before she had time to write, he exclaimed, 'That is
                    enough, that is enough.' From that time his mind was calm. He died in peace on the 5th. of
                    August 1794, leaving my mother with six small children, the oldest but 9 years old, the youngest not
                    more than 4 months old. What her grief was no pen can describe. I have heard her say, she did not at
                    the time dare to shed a tear; she felt as if her grief could get vent, the world could not hold it.
                    Before my father died, he, thinking it impossible in the deranged state of their affairs for mother
                    to raise us children, advised her to put us all out except the youngest, but of that mother said she
                    could never think; she could not bear the thought of parting with her children; and rather than
                    commit the care of their souls and bodies to a strange people, a people of whose morality she had a
                    very poor opinion, chose rather to suffer and die with them. And though she had been raised without
                    knowing what toil and hardships were, she immediately set herself about trying to keep her family
                    together, by lessening their expenses in every possible way she could. They had brought a young
                    woman over the sea with them, who had been in their service sometime and who was to serve them seven
                    years for her passage. She parted with her directly, that she might have no charge but her children.
                    She sold what valuable furniture they brought with them; and was about purchasing a small farm, on
                    which—I recollect—there was an old house, into which she intended to move; but
                    God, who has said, 'leave your fatherles[s] children with me and let your widows trust in
                    me', had his eye upon her. He raised her up a friend in an uncle of my father, who lived in 
                        Kentucky
                    . He, hearing of her desolate condition, left his home with one of his sons, and came to
                    her relief; and before the flowers bloomed the next spring, we were snugly housed in a little cabin
                    close by him, in 
                        Kentucky
                    , where he furnished US all the necessaries of life till we were otherwise provided for.
                    This was in the spring of 1795.
            In the course of that season my mother, with the aid and  advice
                    of that Uncle, sold her wagon and one or two horses and bought a small farm in 
                        Washington county
                    ,—to which we moved the first of winter; for I recollect I was just six years
                    old when we were on the road. The same uncle continued his kindness toward her. He furnished a work
                    hand, gratis, to tend her farm the first year; and while he lived, found her all
                    the salt and flour she used. Her corn and meat she had to try to raise. By some means she got a
                    start of cows and hogs. It seems that goodness and mercy followed her; for she prospered in every
                    thing she undertook. By her needle or other labor she would hire a man to break up her ground, and
                    plant her corn, and plow it occasionally. She and her little girls would hand weed and hoe it. Well
                    do I remember seeing her work till the sweat would be dropping off every corner of the handkerchief
                    which she wore around her neck. Sometimes she could not raise corn enough to do her family and her
                    stock; then she would sell blankets, of which she had a good stock when she crossed the sea; or some
                    of her superfine clothing, such as silk cloaks or the like, for which she had little use now, and
                    buy. One season, I recollect, she went to a wicked man who had a mill, and bargained with him for
                    meal to the amount of the price of a cow, which he was to get when he called for her. After mother
                    got the worth of the cow, she wanted him to take her away; but to her surprise he refused to have
                    any thing for his meal. What but the overruling power of God could put it in the hearts of such men
                    to do such acts of kindness? The uncle that did so much for us was not even a believer in the
                    Christian religion.
            Mother was a member of the Presbyterian Church, of which she became a communicant in her 14th year. I
                    have no recollection of her attending any other preaching till after we had been several years in
                    the country. A Methodist local preacher settled close by us; she occasionally went with her children
                    to hear him; but I do not think she had a very high opinion of him. He was not very smart. And she
                    thought him rather lazy, and negligent in family government to fill her notion of a good Christian.
                    Mother was scrupulously strict with regard to our moral training. The Sabbath was  with her truly a holy day. We were not allowed to "speak our
                    own words or find our own pleasure" on that day. All worldly concerns except those of
                    necessity were laid aside. And when we did not go to meeting—which was by far the most of
                    the time, as meeting was seldom within our reach; and as for Sunday-schools—we never
                    heard of such a thing—she would read the Bible for us, catechize [us], and relate
                    Scriptural narratives to us in such simple language that we could understand, till often the Sabbath
                    became 'a delight,' instead of a wearisome day.
            In the year 1800 a farm was purchased for us in the neighborhood of Bowling Green. Which arrangement
                    was made by Uncle Briggs, my father's uncle, who had been our benefactor, in his last Will.
                    His advice was that she should sell the one on which she lived, and buy a colored boy to work for
                    her, and that his sons should purchase her another in the neighborhood where they lived, which they
                    did. And we moved to it; landed there the first day of 1800.
            We began now to learn a little more about the Methodists,—there was a Methodist family
                    living near the farm to which we moved, where meeting was held. There being no Presbyterian church
                    near us, and mother believing it to be her duty to attend public worship, and being deprived of the
                    privelege of her own order, she thought it better to attend the Methodist than none; though she was
                    not right sure that they were correct in their views of Scriptural doctrine,—she did not
                    think it was according to scripture to say, "she knew her sins were forgiven", and could
                    not join with a people that held that doctrine. The first Methodist preacher I ever heard her speak
                    well of was Ralph Lotspeich. He was among the first traveling preachers we ever heard. When mother
                    heard him, she said it was the nearest a Gospel sermon of any she had heard in the country. She
                    still held on to her own opinion about experimental religion, not believing it necessary to make so
                    much ado about religion; said God was a "God of order", not of confusion; therefore she
                    thought it wrong for people to shout and make a noise at meeting,—till in the summer of
                    1805, [when] she attended a camp meeting held by the Cumberland Presbyterians and Methodists in co.
                    [company.]  There she thought she would go to communion with the
                    Presbyterians, not knowing that they differed from the order to which she belonged. But they
                    objected because she refused to give an experience of grace. She began from that to think more
                    seriously about the matter. She thought if such a thing was to be known, it was high time she was
                    trying to find it out. She became much distressed about her situation, and commenced, in earnest
                    pleading with the Lord to show her her real state. She wrestled with the Lord for sometime,
                    resolving not to be comforted till He revealed himself to her. He did not let her strive in vain; He
                    manifested himself to her in such a way that she was over-powered, and shouted aloud. I heard an eye
                    witness say, he believed she shouted and praised God without intermission near three hours. After
                    that she could tell all about her own experience. She said the time of her conviction and conversion
                    was made as plain to her as if a lighted candle had been brought into a dark room. From that meeting
                    she went home and joined the shouting Methodists, and shouted as often as any of them. And when she
                    was asked, where was her God of order? she replied, God could bring order out of confusion. From
                    this time she commenced reading the Methodist doctrines, and became a firm and settled Methodist.
                    She read Wesley on Christian perfection. She became convinced there were higher attainments in the
                    Christian sphere than she had ever enjoyed. She said, she was resolved, by the helping grace of God,
                    if there were any higher blessing to be enjoyed, she would never rest till she obtained it. I heard
                    her speak in lovefeast one day about it in such a solemn manner that it seemed to thrill the whole
                    assembly. She said she had been seven years pleading with the Lord for the blessing of perfect
                    love,—she was determined not to rest without it. I do not know how long it was before she
                    obtained the victory. But the winter we were married, she gave us a relation of the scene. It was
                    truly a thrilling one. She ever after, as far as I ever heard, lived in the full enjoyment of the
                    blessing, reading her Bible constantly and using all the means of grace. WheCn] I was to see her
                    last, in 1832, she told me that in less than 13 years she had read her Bible through 14 times. I
                    asked her if she did  not get tired reading one thing so often.
                    She said, 'O no; there was so much of it that there was always something new.' She
                    died in the summer of 1841. I never could get any very minute account of the dying scene. I
                    understood she read her Bible as long as she was able. She died of summer fever. Her last days were
                    rather dosed or slept away.
            As far as our mother was capable of instructing her children, she did it; but that consisted chiefly
                    in religious and moral training. As it regarded literary attainments, she never considered the way
                    in which she had been educated, a suitable way to educate us. Our opportunity for learning was very
                    poor, and our early attainments very limited. At 12 years old I could not read, I was then sent to
                    school about 2 month to a poor kind of a teacher; however, it gave me a start, and that was most all
                    I needed; such was my anxiety for learning, that nothing could stop me, and before the 2 months were
                    out I could read so as to understand myself very well. I went but very little more to school till
                    after I was grown. Then I went to the Female Boarding school [in Bowling Green], where I only spent
                    2 sessions. Which includes all the schooling I ever had.
            My mother's religious and moral instruction had [made] a deep and lasting impression on my
                    mind. I was early taught to pray, and reverence the name of the Almighty. And so sacred was that
                    name held that we dare not lightly repeat or sing over a religious song. Mother would tell us, we
                    knew not what we were saying. We were taught to believe that God could hear and knew our softest
                    prayers, and the most secret thoughts of our hearts. This doctrine I very early believed. I will
                    relate a circumstance which took place when I was quite a child. I have never said much about it,
                    though it has had a greater tendency to convince me that the Lord hears and regards the prayers and
                    distresses of little children (revelation excepted) than anything else I ever felt or heard.
            When we first settled in 
                        Washington County
                    , the country was wild and poorly settled; had been lately the scene of many
                    depredations committed by the Indians. Now and then a neighbor would call in, and most all of them
                    could tell some tragic tale of Indian barbarity. To such tales I listened with  terror, till my mind became so much disturbed that I sunk into a kind
                    of melancholy, which made me very miserable. And while my young mind was yet terrified about Indian
                    affairs, a band of robbers, called the Harps, passed through our country, killing and robbing
                    wherever they could. This brought fresh horrors to my already disturbed mind. I lost all
                    cheerfulness; ceased to play with the rest of the children; moped about the house; the family
                    thought I was sick; I kept my trouble all to myself. One night I shall never forget. I was so
                    oppressed with tormenting fear that I could not rest. I tried to pray, to get rid of it, three times
                    before I went to bed. I went out and prayed. Still I felt no better. After I went to bed it appeared
                    to me that terror would overwhelm me. It seemed like a mountain of horror would roll over me. Twice
                    this terrific feeling passed over me. I would still say, "Lord have mercy on me."
                    The third time I felt it coming. It appeared more horrifying than ever. And I exclaimed from the
                    inmost recess of my soul, "My God have mercy upon me!" In a moment my heart was as
                    light as a feather. I could have danced for joy. I felt like talking to the family; but they were
                    all asleep, and I said nothing to them. I was as cheerful as any one the next day. And never was
                    that tormenting fear suffered to return.
            As I grew up, like many I looked upon the world as a flower garden, expecting to find sweets in every
                    flower. I tried to find pleasure in its various vanities, but in vain; I always found myself
                    disappointed and dissatisfied; and early became convinced that nothing of an earthly nature could
                    satisfy an immortal soul. After Mother joined the Methodist church, which was in
                    1805—-under the ministry of James Axley and Miles Harper,—we became constant
                    attendants of Methodist meetings; yet none of the rest of the family joined till 1809, when there
                    was a considerable stir in our neighborhood. The different exercises of people—falling,
                    jerking, and shouting—became very prevalent. My youngest sister, [my] step-sister, and
                    several others were powerfully awakened, fell into these exercises, became very happy in religion,
                    and joined the church. All the time I stood aloof, believing I was a sinner and not fit to die, yet
                    not fully sensible of my danger, nor  yet persuaded that it was
                    now my time to give myself up and forsake my vain companions and worldly amusement.
            Sometime in August, there was a lovefeast in the neighborhood; it was held on Sunday and Monday. I
                    attended on Sunday; heard Frederich Stier, a preacher from the East, who had been traveling in the
                    West sometime. I was much pleased with his sermon, and my feelings were [a] good deal softened. I
                    went back on Monday with my youngest sister, who was a member of the church. We went early, as
                    lovefeast was to be held that morning. When we got there, she went in; but the door-keeper stopped
                    me, and asked me if I was a member. I told him I was not, but did not wish to go in through vain
                    curiosity. He took me kindly by the hand, led me in, and bid me "pray with them."
                    The lovefeast was the most solemn and awful I thought I ever saw, some crying and some shouting,
                    while I felt like one forsaken and alone.
            Bro. Stier preached that day. In closing his discourse, he gave us a sketch of his own experience.
                    After giving several touching incidents, he related a solemn scene through which he passed during
                    his distress. One morning before he rose from his bed he thought he was at Mt. Calvary; that they
                    were going to crucify our Saviour. He followed them up the Mount; saw them place our Savior on the
                    cross; when the man with the hammer and nails came up and smote a nail into one of his hands. With
                    that he started up and was instantly struck with the words he heard a preacher say the day before,
                    "Sinner! every sin you commit pierces your Savior's wound afresh." These
                    words he spoke with an emphasis; and had he run a sword through my body I could not have felt it
                    more sensibly than I did those words through my soul. I saw in a moment, as I never saw before, that
                    Christ had loved me, had suffered and died for me; that I had been, against better light and
                    knowledge, grieving his Spirit, and sinning against Him. The awful sense of ingratitude that I felt
                    was beyond description. I wept bitterly, till tears refused to flow to my relief. I thought over the
                    opportunities and religious instruction I had slighted from my earliest days. I was constrained to
                    ask myself, "If I never find mercy, will  it not be
                    just?" The answer appeared instantly to be, "Thy damnation is just!" If
                    thou damn me it is just!" I instantly replied. These words appeared to roll through my mind
                    as loud as thunder; and I thought I was crying them as loud as I could, and I knew no better till
                    afterwards. I had fallen senselessly to the floor, and knew nothing of it till I came to and found
                    myself there. From this meeting I went home a true penitent—joined the church the first
                    opportunity; but did not find relief till the 16th of September, which was the second day of the
                    first camp meeting I ever attended. The manner in which the good Lord revealed his mercy to me was
                    as strange and powerful as my conviction was. I had passed through the two first days without any
                    particular change. [I] Began to be fearful I should have to return as I came—with all my
                    load of guilt. On Saturday evening I was called to assist in taking my sister in the tent, who was
                    powerfully exercised. When we laid her down, she looked up in my face and commenced praying for me.
                    I had felt much opposed to having the jerks, with which she was exercised. But when I looked upon
                    her heavenly countenance, saw her uplifted hands, heard her fond and pathetic prayer for her poor
                    sister, I felt abashed; the pride of my heart was completely subdued; I bowed my head and hunkered
                    down beside her, laying my hands across my knees and my head upon my hands;—as I did this
                    I said, "O Lord, if thou wilt grant me the blessing she seems to enjoy, I will willingly
                    have the jerks or anything else thou may please to put upon [me.]" I cannot recollect
                    another thought passing through my mind till I heard my own voice saying, "Glory,
                    glory," and felt my hands slapping together. I then asked myself "Why, what is
                    this?" I instantly felt the reply in my inmost soul, as sensibly as if some one had spoken
                    to me, "This is what you have sought for," I suppose I was in the act of falling
                    back, for I felt my head touch some one behind me, which brought me to my recollection. I then
                    sprang to my feet, and with loud shouts declare to all around what the Lord had done for me. The
                    change was so great in my feelings I never could express it. I felt as if I had been snatched from
                    an awful gulf; and so grateful did I feel for it that my soul was all ecstacy. I was astonished  when I saw some others profess to have found peace, and make
                    little or no ado about it. I thought they had never seen their danger as I had [seen mine.] It
                    seemed like my whole nature was changed. I had been as fond of fashions and foolery as any one; it
                    was now no cross to lay all aside. I had no relish for anything that did not accord with true piety.
                    For some years I would wonder to hear professors of religion talk about trials and cross-bearing; I
                    scarcely know what they meant.—Since that time I have felt the need of all the Christian
                    armor, (and I have) learnt to know as much of the Christian warfare as I have been able to bear; but
                    have always found his grace sufficient for me.
            F. A. HESTER, 
                        Charlestown
                    , Indiana, January 20, 1890.
            
               The above is a verbatim copy of my mother's manuscript except the words in [
                    ].
            
         
         
         
            Recollections of 
                        Prairie
                     Flowers of 
                        Benton County
                    
            
            By MARY H. PELTON
            
            The following article was read at the meeting of the Tri-County Historical Association of
                            
                  Benton, Fountain
                and 
                        Warren
                     counties, Indiana, held at the Presbyterian Church at 
                        Fowler
                    , Indiana, on Sunday, April 11, 1926. The author is a member of the Library Board of
                    Fowler; sho has spent many years of her life in building up the library and in extending its
                    influence over the county. The article is a real addition to early research work in the northern
                    part of the state. But for Miss Pelton, much of the valuable information following would have been
                    forever lost.
            The wild flowers had great significance for the settler on the prairie, not so much, perhaps, for
                    their beauty, as because they marked the end of the hardships of winter. Much of the early history
                    of Indiana has been written with only the settlers in wooded portions of the state in mind. Life
                    upon the prairies of 
                        Benton County
                     and the neighboring regions involved many distinctive features. This article reveals
                    some of them.
            ELMORE BARCE.
            In the early days when most of 
                        Benton County
                     was a wild prairie occupied by roving herds of cattle, a little girl came with her
                    brother and parents from 
                        Illinois
                     to live here. In the thickly settled locality from which she came flowers grew only in
                    the gardens and front yards, and were not to be picked except by the owners. Can you imagine her
                    surprise and delight as the spring and summer advanced to be welcomed in her new home by such an
                    astonishing and profuse array of wild flowers which she could pick at will, and her continued
                    pleasure and the fascination during the succeeding years as these welcoming strangers became
                    familiar friends and playmates.
            The first of the season's incredible display to greet her eager eyes were the modest
                    pussy-willows, then the vivid cowslips or marsh-marigolds with their glossy, brilliant yellow
                    flowers and thick green leaves that were used for greens. Then came the delicate spring beauties and
                    bright johnny-  jump-ups, as she called the early rich-colored
                    violets to distinguish them from the later and more dignified bird-foot violets with their larger,
                    paler blossoms and deep-cleft leaves. The johnny-jump-ups were always in favor as fighters because
                    of their stiff spurs which the bird-foot violet lacked. The children would hook two together and
                    jerk the stems to see which would lose its head. Sometimes one would win half a dozen fights before
                    losing its own head.
            Perhaps the most plentiful and luxuriant flower was the early sweet William or downy phlox, sometimes
                    called prairie lilac, which covered large areas with a wealth of violet-pink bloom that could be
                    seen from a long way off. The odor of honey could be made a reality by pulling the florets from the
                    calyx and sucking the nectar, and the stems were so pliable they could easily be braided into a
                    splendid, fragrant wreath fit for a queen's crown. A later variety of wild
                    phlox—Fourth of July pinks, she called them—were a rich deep pink, a fuller
                    petaled flower, but lacked the nectar, the riotous mass of bloom; they grew along the moist edges of
                    the ponds instead of on the knolls or uplands.
            Another favorite, perhaps the prime favorite, was the shooting-star or wild cyclamen with its dainty
                    white or delicate pink blossoms held proudly aloft on smooth, straight stems about a foot above the
                    cluster of leaves at the base. It was a flower to gladden one's heart and treasure in
                    memory—a cloud of nodding exquisite bloom with the most deliciously sweet perfume
                    imaginable. It must have been a general favorite as it had so many names: American cowslip, prairie
                    pointer, Indian chief, sheep-nose, cranebill, rooster-head, lady's eardrops,
                    lady's fingers, drunkards, pride-of-
                        Ohio
                    . The children never did transplant it successfully, even after repeated attempts.
            The scarlet painted cup or Indian paint brush, the orange hawkweed which they called yellow or
                    devil's paint brush, common and swamp buttercups, that made every one love butter when held
                    under the chin, and several inconspicuous flowers such as the common fleabane, robin's
                    plantain or blue spring daisy, yellow star grass, blue-eyed grass that was sometimes all white,
                    yellow five finger vine, wild parsnip, wood-  betony, and yarrow
                    or milfoil, all grew scattered over the prairie following the profusion of early phlox and shooting
                    stars.
            Among the late spring bloomers were a few that seem to be nameless as far as wild flower books have
                    been consulted. One, a species of wild indigo, was scarcely a foot high with light green foliage and
                    one great drooping raceme of large creamy flowers followed by pods of seeds. Another, called paint
                    root by the children, was of a bright orange color, the five-lobed flowers set in a flat cluster at
                    the top of the stem in a nest of hairy leaves, the plant being six to eight inches high with leaves
                    along the entire length of stem. Another had characteristics similar to black-eyed Susan except that
                    the petals were more slender and drooping, and the cone considerably elongated and of a greenish
                    color.
            Still another, called by the children old maid's tobacco and later identified as pussy-toes,
                    grew in such dense, although small, patches of tiny rounded silky leaves as to crowd out even the
                    wild prairie grass, and it had a peculiar pungent odor. Another which they called shoestring had
                    such a tough stem and root that it could not be picked without cutting, and even a plow had to be
                    sharp to cut the root without being deflected. This turned out to be goat's rue or cat-gut.
            The showy lady's slipper growing in moist locations was one of the rare and exquisite
                    beauties, as was the seldom found flaming cardinal flower or red lobelia, and also the red cup lily,
                    known as the orange red or wood lily which invariably painted their noses red. It grew on higher
                    ground than the other two and the finding of any of these was a triumph to rejoice over and tell to
                    every one—a real event in the flower world.
            There were wild roses of various shades of pink, black-eyed Susans which the little girl insisted on
                    calling brown-eyed Susans, wild sunflowers, yellow evening primroses, and day blooming primroses
                    called sundrops, small purple fringed orchis, rich deep blue downy gentians, purple coneflowers that
                    the children thought were combflowers because the stiff bristly cone could be used to comb their
                    short hair, gay feather or blazing star, false dragon head—too delicately beautiful for
                         such a name, joe-pye-weed or trumpet weed, ironweed,
                    turtle-head, sneezeweed, hardhack, golden ragwort, mullein and spiderwort which they called spider
                    lily and learned that the juice rubbed on the cheeks would make them burn until rosy when the use of
                    rouge was unknown.
            Others were the common milkweed whose charm lay in the odd shaped seed pods that contained the scaly
                    brown seeds so wonderfully and symmetrically arranged over the silky slippery down, and the variety
                    of milkweed known as butterfly weed or pleurisy root that was loved for its brilliant orange red
                    blossoms, also the ever present dandelion the stems of which could be split into cute curls and the
                    soft airy-fairy seed balls that when blown upon would tell if a wish were coming true, and the
                    thistle blossoms that required skillful handling, but by carefully removing the purple or magenta
                    florets and the calyx, then hanging near the stove, a wonderful fluffy ball would result to repay
                    for the pricked fingers.
            The pink flowered or violet wood sorrel was an especial favorite because of the sour juice in the
                    stems of both leaves and flowers, while toward the end of the blooming season a succulent, sweetish,
                    white root or tuber could be found below the bulb, and was considered a dainty morsel. But the wild
                    onion or garlic although a member of the lily family was never sought until the cows found some, ate
                    it and tainted the milk.
            On the highest part of the farm was an abandoned wolf's den, where blue grass was found,
                    sods of which were transferred to the dooryard, and just beyond was a deep pond that was dear to the
                    childish hearts for the treasurers found there. Nowhere else did they find the matchless blossoms of
                    the gloriously fragrant, creamy white water lily with its long pipe stems and flat round lily pads,
                    and as it always grew in the deepest part of the pond they always got a wetting in securing the
                    precious flowers. Here grew the wild rice which they made believe were bamboo thickets, the
                    bulrushes which they braided into belts and hats that were too heavy to wear, the arrowheads with
                    waxy white three-petaled flowers, and the yellow water plantain or spearwort, the water lobelia, the
                        zigzag bladderwort that would wrap around their legs and  trail through the water but would lose all its beauty if taken out, the
                    cat-tails which were fall trophies and would fill the air with a cloud of floating down if struck
                    together after being thoroughly dried, and the marsh marigolds along the shore in the springtime,
                    while the blue flag lilies or iris grew here as well as about other ponds.
            There was the rosin weed or compass plant which to them was always gum-weed as it was their only
                    supply of chewing gum. When the flower stalks were tall and in bloom they would go over the prairie
                    bending the tops down as high up as they could reach, then wait for the juice to ooze out and
                    harden, then another trip to gather the gum and also to bend the stalks again at a lower place, and
                    woe betide the one whose avarice for the biggest supply of gum induced gathering some that was not
                    sufficiently hard and that would adhere to the teeth and soften the whole lump until it was unfit to
                    chew.
            There was another weed that always grew along with the gum producing one, called by some,
                    shovel-leaf, and by the children rosin weed, but whose real name remains unknown. It had a tall
                    smooth stem that branched at the top bearing a loose cluster of sunflower-like blooms; the leaves in
                    a group at the base were large and heart-shaped, and the children used them for fans of which they
                    were very suggestive. Both of these are common along the roadsides yet.
            Among the curious plants were puff-balls that made a fine imitation of engine smoke when spatted
                    between the hands, rattlebox, witch's tea, snakeweed or branching bur-weed, sensitive plant
                    or partridge pea which they liked to make fold its leaves, the joint-weed or horsetail that they
                    would unjoint and match together again, the sawgrass at the edge of the ponds that would cut gashes
                    in bare legs if not avoided, and a tall upland grass whose sharp-pointed seeds could be pulled out
                    by the long beards and if thrown would catch in the clothing where the fuzzy barbs would hold fast
                    and pierce still deeper. The name being unknown the children called it such names as darts, spears,
                    bristles and devil's darning needles.
            Then there were the medicinal plants that the grandmother valued, which the little girl thought
                    lacking in beauty  although some had a pleasing aroma: wild
                    mint, wild berga-mot, American pennyroyal, yarrow, swamp valerian, swamp loosestrife, self-heal or
                    heal-all, sometimes called blue curls, catnip, thoroughwort or boneset, blue vervain that was really
                    purple, and Indian quinine—the ague-weed of the Indians which the botanist calls upland
                    boneset, and such a bitter dose as it was ought to cure anything.
            In the fall came another delightful profusion of bloom when the large purple or 
                        New England
                     asters and the numerous small white, lavender and blue asters, called by the children
                    frost flowers, which included the many-flowered, small white, heart-leaved, and smooth varieties,
                    overshadowed the waning glory of the many varieties of the much loved goldenrod, such as the early,
                    late, Gray's or field, hardleaved or flat topped and the 
                        Canada
                    .
            As soon as the sod was turned and cultivation began numerous weeds or plants sprang up, such as
                    mustard, dandelion and lambsquarter utilized as greens; peppergrass and ground cherry which the
                    children nibbled; plantain, dog fennel and jimson weed about buildings; nightshade, purslane,
                    smartweed, climbing buckwheat, wild morning glory, daisy fleabane, wild sunflower or water weed,
                    curly or narrow leaved dock, the much despised beggar-ticks or pitchforks, cockle-burs, hedge
                    nettle, pigweed and its near relative the tumble-weed.
            The tumble-weeds would average about the size and shape of a bushel basket—some larger and
                    some smaller—and when mature would loosen from the root and the wind would carry them for
                    miles across the prairie, or until they found lodgment against a hedge fence or other obstacle,
                    forming a serious fire hazard. Much fun was had by racing with the tumble-weeds, and in a strong
                    wind the only way the children could keep pace with them was to fasten a heavy twine to a large one
                    and let it take them along with it.
            Tickle grass that blew far and wide like the tumble-weeds, stink grass that was pretty but vile
                    smelling, blue grass and other fancy seed heads were gathered for winter bouquets, and sometimes
                    mother dipped these in an alum solution to make them more attractive as
                    "crystalized" bouquets. The  wild fragrant
                    everlasting or white balsam was highly valued as a fine winter decoration, too.
            The children's father gave them every encouragement in becoming familiar with nature through
                    the animal, plant and insect life of the prairie, and a teacher interested in botany told them the
                    names of many of the flowers. Of all these wild flowers of the early days that persist in spite of
                    the destruction of the raw prairie by cultivation perhaps none are more common or better known than
                    the asters, goldenrods, milkweeds, black-eyed susan, wild sunflowers and wild roses.
            Thus under the Heavenly Father's guidance nature spread forth a magnificent display of her
                    fragrant and glorious handiwork, and gave of her choicest treasures to those who had eyes to see and
                    hearts to understand, but who were isolated from the social world and deprived of nearly every thing
                    the child of today regards as necessary, yet had the joyous freedom of a life in God's
                    great outdoor world filled with pleasures that are a far richer heritage than any that money can
                    buy.
            No mention is made in this paper of the many woodland wild flowers found in the timbered portions of 
                        Benton County
                    .
         
         
         
            John Irwin Morrison and the 
                        Washington County
                     Seminary
            By MRS. ANNIE MORRISON COFFIN.
            In view of the awakening interest in the history of education in Indiana, and numerous requests
                    reported from public libraries for material upon the life of John I. Morrison, this contribution
                    from his daughter and the accompanying photograph are published in the hope that they will be a
                    welcome addition to existing sources of information and will help in bringing about a just
                    appreciation of one of the great men of Indiana.
            John I. Morrison was born in 
                        Franklin County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1806. The family moved to 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana, about 1824. Here he taught school at Walnut Ridge and the following spring he
                    was given charge of the 
                        Salem
                     Grammar School. His teaching was interrupted by a year's college course at 
                        Miami
                     University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               ; he entered with two years advanced credit
                    and finished two years work in one. In 1828 he returned to 
                        Salem
                     and opened the 
                        Washington County
                     Seminary for which, in 1836, he put up an attractive building.
            In 1840 he became a professor of Ancient Languages in Indiana University; in 1844 went back to the 
                        Washington County
                     Seminary where he taught for about four years. His services as trustee of Indiana
                    University, 1847–1866, 1873–1878, and president of the board
                    1864–1866 and 1874–1876, are referred to below.
            Mr. Morrison was also for some time editor of the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Democrat. He represented 
                        Washington County
                     in the Indiana House of Representatives 1839–40, and in the state Senate
                    1847–48, 1848–49, 1849–60. He was a member of the state
                    Constitutional Convention, 1860, where he served as chairman of the committee on education. In this
                    position he rendered invaluable services; he is said to have been responsible for the creation of
                    the office of State Superintendent of Public Instruction and largely so for the provision for a
                    "uniform system of common schools."l
            During the Civil war he was appointed, by President Lincoln, Commissioner of Enrollment. He was
                    elected state Treasurer in 1864 and changed his residence to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 1872 he removed to Knights-town, where he continued his public services as township
                    trustee and as secretary of the school board. He died in 1882.—EDITOR.
            
               
                  1 J. P. Dunn; Indiana and Indianans (
                            Chicago
                        , 19191, 1, 487–491.
            
            
            In a memorial address delivered at the Old Settlers' meeting at 
                        Salem
                    , August 9, 1883, upon the life and character of John I. Morrison, Barnabas C. Hobbs
                        said:∗
                    
                        On the 17th day of July, 1882, telegrams were wired to relatives and friends and to the daily
                            journals that the Hon. John Irwin Morrison had ceased to live on earth. There are men and
                            women from the Atlantic to the Pacific and especially among the teeming population of the
                                Mississippi Valley in whom the sad tidings awakened deep and loved
                            memories. It is fit even now to attempt a sketch of a character so well and honorably known,
                            to give at least a fragmentary history of his life and service that it may be preserved for
                            the benefit of friends and relatives and for the instruction and satisfaction of other
                            generations.
                        He belonged to the type of men who in their very boyhood study the true ideal of a worthy
                            manhood and make everything contribute to that ideal.
                        His first possession, a pig, was exchanged for a Latin Grammar and with this coveted treasure
                            fairly his, laid the foundation of his accurate and ready scholarship. Headache had been an
                            excuse when work in the field which a child could do was demanded, but it was a headache
                            that soon eased itself upon the precious Latin Grammar, and it became established in the
                            family that little John was to be a scholar,—no brother or sister but wished and
                            did contribute to that result.
                        He began to teach at the early age of fifteen, and he ventured to test his self-command and
                            courage as a teacher in the neighborhood of his nativity. There were rebels in the school
                            room in that early day as now, and the largest boy in the school challenged to measure his
                            muscle with his master, but was conquered. The little school master (as he was called),
                            however, went home that evening with a sadly agitated nervous system, and sought a place to
                            weep. He wept long,—night came on, and he sought the balm of sleep, but in the
                            night watches, still weeping, he begged to come near his loved and loving mother. She
                            soothed the grief of her nursling too soon grappling with the stern realities of life.
                        In the morning, calm and self-possessed, he rose to assume his duties and bear the burdens of
                            life on his young shoulders with renewed courage and strength.
                    
                
            N. P. Willis' description of the "Little School Master" is so complete a
                    description, that it might appear young Morrison was the subject of it. He was slender and small for
                    one of his age—he seemed "old when young and young when old." His early
                    manhood was marked by a ripeness and a natural dignity not often seen, which graced every movement
                    and gave character and equanimity to his sociability. He entered 
                  
                     2 Printed in the 
                                Salem
                            
                            Democrat, Aug. 16, 1883.
               
                     life when our State was in its formative period. About the year
                    1824, the rich lands and genial climate attracted the Morrison family to the West. They found a home
                    a few miles north of 
                        Salem
                     in 
                        Washington County
                    .
            John Morrison's introduction to the citizens of 
                        Salem
                     is very ably presented by James G. May, a citizen of 
                        Salem
                    , and very nearly the same age as his venerated teacher. He relates: 
                        In December, 1824, in what was then 
                                Brown
                             township, I first met John I. Morrison. Congress had set apart every sixteenth
                            section of land for common school purposes. A liberal provision was also made for a State
                            University. To render the system complete (by filling the vacancy between the common school
                            and college), provision was made by the State for academic instruction in every county, by
                            County Seminaries, whose graduates from the common schools could prepare to enter college.
                            Buildings were erected generally for this purpose, but this part of the system failed to be
                            a success by lack of capable teachers (with a few rare exceptions).
                        The trustees of the sixteenth section met to elect three congressional trustees. These
                            trustees had control of the funds, etc., arising from the lease of the sixteenth section.
                            Mr. Morrison on that occasion read the law governing such elections. He was at that time a
                            youthful schoolmaster, employed to teach a school on the Walnut Ridge. He was nineteen years
                            old.
                    
                
            In the Indiana Farmer, March 5, 1825, published at 
                        Salem
                    , the following notice appears: 
                        SALEM GRAMMAR SCHOOL
                  
                        The trustees of the 
                                Salem
                             Grammar School would inform the public that they have employed Mr. John I.
                            Morrison to take charge of said school. He will commence on the first Monday of April next
                            (1825). The Latin and Greek languages, mathematics, etc., will be taught, as well as the
                            various branches of an English education; those wishing to send will find a subscription
                            paper open with the Treasurer, Hugh Mc-Pheeters, Esq., where they may ascertain terms,
                            etc.—by order of the Board of Trustees, Feb. 25, 1826.— B. Bradly,
                            Clerk.
                    
                
            The Annotator of March 12, 1827, said: 
                        We witnessed an interesting examination of the Latin Grammar School. There were three in the
                            Greek Testament, two in Horace and six in Virgil; for want of time, the class in Caesar was
                            not examined. There were two classes in Grammar, amounting to 21 pupils, two classes in
                            geography—21, and two classes in arithmetic.
                    
                
            
            The following is taken from the Annotator, September 15, 1827: 
                        
                     
                                Salem
                            : We witnessed yesterday another interesting examination of Mr.
                            Morrison's students in the 
                                Salem
                             Grammar School in the branches of Greek, Latin, Mathematics, Astronomy,
                            Geography, English Grammar, etc. The Trustees, examiners and spectators appeared highly
                            pleased on noting the progress of the pupils of the several classes since the last
                            examination. There must have been the strictest application during the session on the part
                            of the students to have advanced with the rapidity which we witnessed yesterday, the
                            progress of the school, silice the last session, its different classes,—with the
                            preceptor and his students—we have undoubtedly one of the most flourishing
                            institutions of the kind in the Western States.
                        It is especially interesting to such students as are attending our young institution from 
                                Kentucky
                             and different parts of the State to know that a feeling interest is taken by
                            the citizens of the town, in the education of their sons. We much regret, in common with the
                            citizens of the town and vicinity, that Mr. Morrison is about to leave the institution and
                            State. We venture to assert that no gentleman could have been more serviceable in building
                            up an institution in this place than Mr. Morrison. His diligent attention to his students,
                            and his superior mode of instructing, has given the utmost satisfaction to all who are
                            interested. But two years since the school was placed in his charge, much deranged in order
                            and with only twenty-three scholars. The first session there commenced three in the Latin
                            language and four in English Grammar. Since that session the school has increased to near
                            seventy in number.
                        There were yesterday at the examination five in the Greek class, ten or twelve in the Latin
                            classes, five in the higher branches of mathematics, eighteen in geography and astronomy
                            classes and fourteen in the grammar class. Thus in a period of two years, by his
                            perseverance, he has so far furthered the interest of the Grammar School as to rank it among
                            the most flourishing institutions of the kind in the Western States. We are informed that it
                            is Mr. Morrison's intention to return to this town, if living, in one or two years,
                            to take charge of the institution again or to commence one on his own footing. His object
                            for leaving the school at this time is to acquire a knowledge of some languages which he can
                            not obtain without residing one or two years in the Eastern States.
                    
                
            It must be remembered that when John I. Morrison did the great teaching work alluded to, the
                    brick-and-mortar-age had scarcely begun. His work that invited students from abroad was executed in
                    a small one-story brick house. This brick house was afterwards distinguished by being the birthplace
                        
                    
                  John I. Morrison
               
                    
                     of Hon. John Hay, diplomat, author and statesman. But, like
                    Mark Hopkins, John I. Morrison could make a good college in a log cabin.
            The story of Mr. Morrison's preparation for college has been given by his sister: 
                        Two of his sisters had the wool cut off the sheep's back, washed it, carded it, spun
                            it, colored it, wove it, cut it, made it—a complete suit—in two days
                            and a half from the first. It was blue jeans, a fine beautiful piece of cloth. In it he went
                            to college, and I heard him say to one of his sons upon a similar occasion when asking for a
                            broadcloth suit, "Yes, sir! and I graduated in the same suit". This may be
                            accounted for, and its not wearing out, although he was fond of outdoor exercise, a great
                            walker, etc., by his graduating in one year—taking two years in one and entering
                            two years in advance.
                        He had grown taller, however, and his pantaloons were about three inches too short-that did
                            not seem to distress him. He returned to 
                                Salem
                             in the fall of 1828.
                        While at college he had the advantage of boarding in the president's family and
                            having the president's son, George Bishop, a gifted young man, for his special
                            friend and companion.
                    
                
            A daughter adds: 
                        My father had a lasting respect for Dr. Bishop, the president of 
                                Miami
                             University, 
                        Oxford, Ohio
                     . He received from him most valuable
                            impressions and instruction. I have heard him speak of his Scotch brogue, his shrewdness,
                            his unwavering integrity, his devotion to the cause of education and his simple piety. All
                            these qualities so wrought upon the students that my father said he had seen young men of
                            the senior class, great strapping fellows, await the Doctor with chip in hand to scrape the
                            mud off his boots before he entered. "You know," my father would add,
                            "young men are not in the habit of doing such things."
                    
                
            In the fall of 1828 he returned to 
                        Salem
                     and began vigorous, telling teaching work in the first 
                        Washington County
                     seminary building. Soon pupils, far and near, came to gather wisdom and knowledge from
                    the lips of the young preceptor. None who came went away disappointed. The 
                        Washington County
                     Seminary, under his administration, gained a reputation for solid, thorough teaching
                    that will not fade from memory for many a long year to come. Barnabas Hobbs, the first president of
                    Earlham College and later (1868–1871) Superintendent of Public Instruction, and James G.
                    May were students and afterwards assistant teachers in the seminary.
            
            Barnabas Hobbs thus describes his work: 
                        In 1828 after Mr. Morrison returned to 
                                Salem
                            , he was called to open the first 
                                Washington County
                             Seminary. He aimed at the best standard of school work; he read the best
                            educational periodicals of America and was much profited by careful study of the life of
                            Pestollozzi, whom he greatly admired. Young men and young women (for coeducation was the
                            order of the times) sought his instruction, from Southern Indiana and 
                                Kentucky
                            . The leading men of 
                                Salem
                            , such as Judge B. Parke, Micah Newby, Benoni Morris, Dr. Burr Bradley, Judge
                            Peck, John Henderson, General DePauw, John H. Farnum, Jeremiah Roland, John Kingsburry,
                            David G. Campbell, Beebee Booth, and kindred men gave him their encouragement and support.
                            His course of study was mathematical, scientific and classical. He was careful to avoid
                            favoritism—no one was overlooked or neglected. He was careful to give personal
                            attention to some of the most elemental classes, and made it a point to keep all his classes
                            evened up; guarding against a too prevalent inclination in youth to avoid thoroughness in
                            branches in which they had no natural inclination. His school was always opened with
                            devotional exercises. I well remember the solemnity of his countenance on these occasions
                            and the appropriateness of his utterances.
                    
                
            The following animated sketch from the pen of Zebulon B. Sturgus, a native of 
                        Salem
                     (afterwards a resident of 
                        Washington City
                    ) appeared in the Indiana School Journal:
                    
                        I was a pupil of Mr. John I. Morrison from a very early age before the Seminary was built. I
                            vividly recall after more than fifty, (now 98 years), the day we first entered that
                            building. It was of Grecian type and had two large rooms and well seated. It was then not a
                            common thing for girls to learn Latin and I well remember my surprise at Laura and Cornelia
                            Leonard reading Horace to Mr. Morrison. The Seminary soon became famous. Pupils flocked not
                            only from 
                                Washington County
                            , but from adjoining counties, from 
                                Louisville
                            , 
                        New Albany, Jeffersonville
                     , 
                                Charleston
                            , 
                                Bedford
                            , 
                                Paoli
                            , 
                                Corydon
                            , 
                                Indianapolis
                             and other places. The house was too small to hold all the pupils. Many families
                            of the town took boarders who attended the Seminary.
                        Mr. Morrison's methods of instruction were very exact and thorough, and he made his
                            impress on all whom he taught for any length of time. He was a man of very commanding
                            presence; his musical voice, his sincere cordiality made him many friends. His mere presence
                            in the school room secured order such as other teachers obtain only by strategy.
                        The school was always opened with prayer in which the petition, "That we may know
                            Thee, the only true God, whom to know aright is life eternal."
                        Now, there happened to be two brothers in the County, Levi and Noah Wright, who were sheriffs
                            of the county alternately for many years. It puzzled my small brain not a little, though as
                            it was in a  prayer, I never ventured to make my wonderment known why Mr. Morrison should always pray for Noah Wright
                            (know aright) and never once for Levi. I have seldom seen him laugh so heartily as he did
                            when I told him long afterwards of this perplexity.
                        It was a mixed school, and all the better for that, as I take it. True the boys and girls
                            occasionally fell in love with each other, but they will do that any way and they will be
                            far less likely to make serious mistakes when they have studied and recited together and
                            taken each other's mental caliber. There never were so many bright, pretty girls in
                            any other school as that. Their presence made the boys behave better, and they were put on
                            their mettle not to be excelled by them. As the grass has been growing over her grave for
                            many years, I may mention Maria Bradley, who was among the foremost of the girls. Those who
                            knew her then wouId testify as to her marked ability in all her studies. Among the boys, I
                            can name only a few—Robert Allen was fitted for West Point in that Seminary. He
                            was, during the war for the 
                                Union
                            , in charge of the Quartermaster's service in 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     —an able, upright man. Thomas J. Rodman, was
                            another of the Old Seminary pupils who obtained distinction by inventing the huge gun which
                            bears his name, but few remain of the old Seminary pupils.
                    
                
            Dr. A. W. King of 
                        Redlands
                    , 
                        California
                    , was a pupil there; he wrote to me at Christmas times. A daughter of his recently had
                    an enlarged photograph of my father made and sent it to the 
                        Salem
                     Historical Society. Five years ago he was 96 years old, yet wrote a clear legible hand.
                    I can remember some others who have not survived so long. Dr. Elijah New-land of 
                        New Albany
                    , Dawson Lyon, Robert Morris of 
                        Salem
                    , Dr. John L. Campbell, connected for many years with 
                        Wabash
                     College, W. C. DePauw, for whom DePauw College is named, Jerry Talbott, temperance
                    lecturer, Volney T. Malott, president of the Indiana National Bank for many years, Newton Booth,
                    Governor of 
                        California
                    , his sister Lizzie Booth Tar-kington (Booth Tarkington's mother), the Berkeys,
                    Pecks, Hendersons, Gordons and many others.
            James G. May writes: 
                        Not long after Mr. Morrison opened the seminary, he was instrumental in establishing the
                            Zelo-Paideusean Society, which accomplished an untold amount of good. John I.
                            Morrison's great power as a teacher lay in his vigorous capacity to make his pupils
                            independent thinkers. Every day he brought before the school something calculated to create
                            a thirst for reading and for scientific advancement. After prayer he never failed to present
                            something that induced thought and led to rigid investigation. In mind, I look back to those
                            twenty-minute talks with the most intense delight!
                    
                
            
            Dr. E. Newland writes: "As a teacher Mr. Morrison had the rare combination of ability to
                    impart instruction and to govern a school." 
                        Salem
                     was called the "
                        Athens
                     of the West."
            In 1832 Mr. Morrison was married to one of his former pupils, Catherine Morris, daughter of Benoni
                    Morris, a prominent citizen of 
                        Salem
                    . She had just returned from a famous Friend's boarding
                    school—Westtown, near 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where her father took her in those early days across the country in his carriage. She
                    remained there two years and he came for her and took her home in the same manner. It was a perilous
                    journey. A daughter adds: 
                        We still have the letters her father and others wrote her in 1830–31. In one of
                            these letters her father inquires, "What kind of trimming can possibly be used on
                            the dress thee asked for that would make it cost five dollars?" Postage was 25
                            cents and it took three weeks for letters to go.
                        My mother's penmanship was exquisite and she taught writing in the Seminary and she
                            made all the quill pens that were used in the school. The school room grew too small to
                            accommodate all the pupils, and in 1836 Mr. Morrison built a substantial three-story
                            building at his own expense for the accommodation of young lady pupils. It was a beautiful
                            building of colonial type. He sent to 
                                Philadelphia
                             for an architect. It had a solid wall of brick one foot thick from foundation
                            to roof in the center from north to south. About the year 1838 or 1839 there was a terrific
                            hail storm which broke every pane of glass on the south and west. My sister, Maria, older
                            than I, was a baby. My mother grasped the cradle with baby and all and fled for safety to
                            the east side of this wall and there she staid until the storm was over. I have heard it
                            said that the hail stones were as large as hen eggs. Afterwards my father had shutters
                            placed on every window on the south and west.
                    
                
            Professor Theophilus Wylie, of the state university, pays this tribute: 
                        John Irwin Morrison was elected Professor of Ancient Languages in the Indiana University in
                            1840, Dr. Andrew Wylie then being president. Mr. Morrison was efficient and popular as a
                            professor and highly esteemed by his colleagues and pupils. He was an enthusiast in the
                            cause of education, and when in the State Constitutional Convention of 1860–61,
                            he drafted the article in the report of the Committee on Education of which he was chairman,
                            which created the office of Superintendent of Public Instruction. Mr. Morrison after his
                            resignation a second time was connected with the University as trustee from
                            1847–1866 and 1864–1856 he was president of the board. He was again
                            1873–1878 and from 1874–1876 president. There existed from 1868 to
                            1876 an examining committee whose business it was to examine the examination papers of the
                            different classes at the close of their term examinations. The  members of this committee were selected on account of their
                            scholarship. For six of the seven years, Mr. Morrison was a member of this committee and for
                            five of these years the chairman of it.
                        Mr. Morrison was not a showy man,—he was more and better than he seemed to be. His
                            good qualities were brought out by acquaintance with him. In public life, he was energetic,
                            public-spirited and of excellent judgment, and in political life incorruptible. Mr. Morrison
                            sprang from the good old Covenanter stock of 
                                Franklin County
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . He connected himself with the Presbyterian church in 1830; was a constant
                            attendant on public worship and an exemplary Christian.
                    
                
            Dr. E. Newland of 
                        New Albany
                    , thus speaks of his success as very remarkable as a man as well as a teacher: 
                        No one ever stood higher in the esteem and confidence of the people of 
                                Washington County
                            . I am informed that he was not an expert at physical labor of any kind, yet he
                            was a good judge of the work of others, and I know had a very correct eye for
                            measurements—was an expert sho—kould hit the bull's eye nine
                            times out of ten—superior mathematical talent, as well as knowledge and
                            experience in surveying, having been surveyor of 
                                Washington County
                             for several years. The East Building of the State University, during his
                            incumbency as President of the Board of Trustees, and the fine academy at 
                                Knightstown
                            , all attest his faithfulness and competency as supervisor. I am told that his
                            name was cut in stone over the old building and may be seen on the inside of the well house
                            as a tribute to his helpfulness in the construction of the old building and has since been
                            preserved in the erection of the Rose well house over the door inside.
                        After having admirably fitted several young men for West Point, so long celebrated for its
                            exactness in mathematics, he was appropriately appointed to represent Indiana on the Board
                            of Visitors there in 1866; at that time Robert E. Lee was Commander. In 1844 he resigned his
                            Professorship in Indiana University and accepted a call to the 
                                Washington County
                             Seminary again, where he taught until about 1848. At that time the
                            Presbyterians bought the institute for a college and called it the 
                                Salem
                             Presbyterian Female College. My mother who was not much in favor of sectarian
                            schools, said, "The name will kill it" and it did. They could not make it
                            succeed and only paid the interest once, and after four years gave it up. We then went back
                            to the old home and lived there until 1857, when it was sold to James G. May, who carried on
                            a very successful school for many years.
                    
                
            Professor E. Ballantine, also of the state University, contributes the following: 
                        I came here in 1854. Mr. Morrison, then President of the Board favored my coming as I
                            understand,—received me most kindly and always treated me as a friend. I saw his
                            active earnest efficiency during  those trying times in
                            the University, the buildings having been swept away by fire just before I came with the
                            library and the funds (by the decision of the courts in the suit brought by the 
                                Vincennes
                             University). I resigned my chair in 1858. After four years, Mr. Morrison who
                            had been requested to take the chair, learning I was ready to return, retired in my favor,
                            before he had actually begun to give any instruction. I mention this as a special mark of
                            his kindness and disinterestedness. He was ever in his place at the meetings of the Board,
                            served on committees at extra times, met committees of the Legislature, visited the
                            University at extra times, heard the classes recite, addressed the stndents in chapel, but
                            never made himself unpleasant in his relations to the professors or faculty. Having come to
                            the University from a far-distant state, I had reason to value the more the new friend I
                            found in the President of the Board of Trustees.
                        He once filled a vacancy at the University as Professor of Mathematics. When his return to
                            the college was the subject of conversation he surprised his auditor (who knew more of his
                            attention to the classics) by saying that he did not know, but what he would prefer
                            mathematics.
                    
                
            In 1851 John I. Morrison was a member of the convention to revise the state constitution, in which
                    body he was chosen chairman of the committee on education. In this capacity he drafted with his own
                    hand and by strong personal influence and exertion secured the adoption of that portion of the state
                    constitution which gave Indiana its present effective public school system.
            During the Civil war Mr. Morrison edited and published a paper called The 
                            Union
                         Advocate. He was appointed by President Lincoln, commissioner on the Board of
                    Enrollment for the draft, with his office in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . He made 
                        Union
                     speeches in many places in the Southern part of the State and men would stand around
                    the buildings with their muskets and one by one would come inside and listen to his wonderful and
                    convincing words. When he thought they might be getting tired, they would exclaim, "Go on!
                    John I. Go on!" I was one of the daughters who heard and saw this. He never carried arms,
                    the confidence in his bravery inspired that of his body guard.
            In 1861, my brother, Theophilus Wylie, who was born in 
                        Bloomington
                     and named for Professor Wylie, entered the service as a volunteer. He was elected
                    lieutenant and afterwards promoted to captain. He was aid-de-camp to General Jefferson C. Davis of
                    Indiana in the 16th Infantry. He served all through the Civil War, and after the war was over,
                    joined the regular army. He served in the Spanish American War 
                    and was killed the first day of the battle of San Juan Hill, as he was leading
                    his men up the hill to plant the flag on the Mora Castle.
            Richard Harding Davis in Harper's Monthly giving an account of the
                    engagement said, "It was that thin blue line of the 16th Infantry that planted the flag on
                    the top of the hill." He was the only Indiana officer killed in that war. He was heard to
                    say, "Come on, boys, don't be afraid", then he was shot, and his sergeant,
                    springing to his side as he was falling, was killed in the same manner. His photograph is now
                    hanging in the soldiers' and sailors' monument. The government named a war vessel
                    in his honor and his daughter came from 
                        Los Angeles
                     to christen the vessel. She was a doctor in a hospital in 
                        Los Angeles
                     during the World War and contracted the influenza there and died a martyr to the
                    service of the wounded soldiers.
            I can not close this history of my father's life without speaking of the work he did for the
                    university, while he was president of the board, in obtaining for women admission to the University.
                    In 1868 he studied the law on the subject and stated in a board meeting that he could not see
                    anything to prevent women entering as students. They told him to provide one, and he mentioned his
                    eldest daughter, Sarah P. Morrison. She was a graduate of Mt. Holyoke and had been a pupil teacher
                    at 
                        Vassar
                    ; had graduated from a business college; had been assistant principal at 
                        Glendale
                     and had taught at 
                        Oxford Western
                     Female Seminary—so why not? She was admitted and was the first woman
                    graduate of the state university, in the class of 1869.
            When the 
                        Indianapolis
                     School Board asked my father to name a man suitable to be the head of the City Public
                    Schools, he named A. C. Shortridge, who was reluctant to accept but was finally prevailed on and
                    proved to be a most excellent selection.
            Mr. Hobbs thus summarizes his career as a state official: 
                        In 1864, Mr. Morrison was elected state treasurer and removed to 
                                Indianapolis
                            . He managed the finances of the State carefully during those troublous times
                            and was the intimate friend and counsellor of Governor Morton. He served two years and was
                            succeeded by Nathan Kiinball, one of his former pupils.
                    
                
         
         
         
            James F. D. Lanier
            By GEORGE S. COTTMAN, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The acquisition by the state of the old Lanier mansion at 
                        Madison
                     has brought to the surface more or less fragmentary information regarding the man whose
                    name is perpetuated by the place, and in whose honor it is to be preserved. That fact of itself
                    makes seasonable a sketch of one who in his own right is entitled to a place in the gallery of
                    Indiana's noteworthy men.
            James F. D. Lanier, born in 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , November 22, 1800, came with his father to 
                        Madison
                     in 1817, when it was a mere village. The father was not a wealthy man. On the contrary,
                    he failed in business, leaving debts which the son ultimately paid. Trained to thrift and industry,
                    and gifted naturally with a fine business talent, the latter strikingly exemplified Horace
                    Greeley's idea of "growing up" with a new country. He prospered with the
                    thriving young town, and during the thirty-one years of his residence there he was an important
                    factor in its business development. He began by studying law in the office of General Alexander A.
                    Meek, graduated at the Transylvania law school in 1823, and took up the practice of that profession
                    in 
                        Madison
                    . The principles he cultivated are set forth by himself. In his brief autobiography,
                    "printed for the use of his family only," and never given to the public, he says:
                        
                        I was diligent, strove to be respected, and made it a point to be punctual in every duty and
                            appointment. It was early my purpose of life to respect scrupulously the rights of others,
                            but always to be firm in the assertion of my own. It was to the rigid adherence to this plan
                            of life, if it may be so called, that I owed my success. My diligence and fidelity in every
                            engagement gave me the command of whatever money I wanted, as it was well known that I would
                            never allow my liabilities to exceed my means.
                    
                
            
            In a word, he was as a lawyer, as in subsequent vocations, a success, but the profession, involving
                    as it did, riding the judicial circuit by horseback, was too much for his strength, and he gave it
                    up as other more congenial business presented itself. For some years he was assistant clerk and then
                    chief clerk of the Indiana House of Representatives. In this capacity he showed his characteristic
                    habit of making the most of his position. Says the autobiography: 
                        My duties required the greatest diligence and the closest attention. I soon became master of
                            the rules and modes of conducting business, and was in this way enabled to be of service to
                            members, many of whom, although men of sense and ability, often found themselves in
                            positions of embarrassment from want of familiarity with legislative proceedings. My good
                            offices were often availed of in the drawing up of motions and bills, and in guiding the
                            conduct of members on the floor. I regard my office of clerk of the House as one of the
                            chief causes of my future success. It enabled me to form an intimate acquaintance with all
                            the leading men of the state, many of whom in after life were not slow to reciprocate the
                            good office I had done them.
                    
                
            When the Indiana State Bank with its branches was chartered, in 1834, Mr. Lanier retired from law
                    practice and became a banker, with which business he was identified for the rest of his life. By
                    simple and economical habits, and by the investment of all his surplus in real estate that was
                    continually rising in value he had acquired quite an income for those days in the West, and he now
                    took a large amount of bank stock and became the first president of the 
                        Madison
                     Branch Bank, being also a member of the Board of Control of the state system. These two
                    positions he held for fourteen years, or during the rest of his stay in 
                        Madison
                    , and again success was his meed. The institution with which he was connected stood a
                    test that sent many another to the wall.
            Mr. Lanier wrote: 
                        The bank commenced business at one of the most critical periods of the history of the
                            country—at the very beginning of that era of Speculation which nearly bankrupted
                            the whole nation, and which culminated in the terrible catastrophe of 1837. At this
                            disastrous crisis nearly every bank in the western and southwestern states failed, with the
                            exception of that of Indiana. A very large number of those of the eastern states were
                            totally ruined. It would seem to have been almost impossible that the bank of Indiana, then
                            one of the newest of the western  states, should not
                            have become involved in the general catastropha So far from being the case the bank not only
                            paid dividends, averaging from twelve to fourteen per cent annually, but returned to its
                            stockholders nearly double the original investment when it was wound up at the expiration of
                            its charter, in 1854.
                    
                
            An incident in connection with these precarious times adds a touch of color: 
                        As we had always intended to keep our banks in position to meet any emergency that might
                            arise we had not in the least anticipated the general suspension in 1837 in the eastern
                            states till that event happened. Our board of control were then in session at 
                                Indianapolis
                            . We were at the time the depository of $1,600,000 of government
                            funds. I was instructed by the board to proceed immediately to 
                                Washington
                             to represent our condition and to confer with the Secretary of the Treasury as
                            to what we, in the emergency, should do. I took with me $80,000 in gold. I went
                            up the Ohio river in a steamboat to Wheeling, and thence by stage,
                            chartered for the purpose, alone across the mountains to Frederick, at that time the western
                            terminus of the 
                                Baltimore
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             railroad, and sixty-one miles west from 
                                Baltimore
                            . I suffered not a little anxiety on account of the treasure I carried more than
                            three hundred miles through a wild and comparatively uninhabited region, and was not a
                            little relieved on reaching the safe conduct of a railroad. On arriving at 
                                Washington
                             I obtained an interview with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Honorable Levi
                            Woodbury, explained to him the position and the entire solvency of our bank, and delivered
                            to him the gold I had brought with me in part payment of our balances. He received me with
                            great cordiality and said that our bank was the only one that had offered to pay any portion
                            of its indebtedness in specie. We were allowed to retain the government deposits till they
                            were drawn in its regular disbursements.
                    
                
            One evidence of Mr. Lanier's prosperity while still in 
                        Madison
                     is that in the middle forties—or, to be exact, in 1844—he built
                    himself a home there that was undoubtedly the finest family mansion in Indiana, and which visitors
                    from 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     pronounced more imposing than anything in those cities. He enjoyed this residence but
                    four years, for in the latter part of 1848 he left 
                        Madison
                     and thenceforth made his home in 
                        New York
                    .
            The truth is that the Indiana of that day did not afford scope for his business capacity in the line
                    he elected to follow. It was the dawning of a new era—the railroad era, that was to
                    transform the business of the world. The railroad as a  factor
                    in transportation was yet an experiment; there had been many losses and failures, but men of
                    sagacity saw through the causes of these to vast possibilities. Lanier was one of these. He knew
                    something at first hand about railroading, for he had, as he said, "been instrumental in
                    the resuscitation of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad" after its failure under the mismanagement of an inefficient
                    paternalism. But the logical base of operations for the great coming development was not the West,
                    but New Yark City, the big financial center. Hence we find Lanier, on the first day of January,
                    1849, forming a copartnership with Richard H. Winslow, "the chief object of which was the
                    negotiation of railway securities, although we [they] contemplated in connection therewith a general
                    banking business."
            There were then in the West about 600 miles of railroad, chiefly the remains of old state systems
                    which had been sold to private companies. They were poorly built, some of them badly located, and
                    were more or less failures, this general situation having, of course, a detrimental effect upon
                    investors of capital. To Lanier's mind, however, there were reasons for believing that
                    lines properly constructed upon good routes would be a success, and he began a vigorous propaganda
                    to show that the time had come when railroad securities were a safe and profitable investment. It
                    was evidently convincing propaganda, for business began to grow. Beginning with the bonds of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     road, which were the first securities of the kind ever brought out in the 
                        Cleveland
                    , 
                        Painsville
                     and 
                        Ashtabula
                    ; 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; 
                        New York
                     market, they followed with the 
                        Little Miami
                    ; 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Xenia
                    ; 
                        Cleveland
                    , 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; 
                        Michigan
                     and Southern, and other lines. The business so increased that, as Mr. Lanier says,
                    "we not unfrequently negotiated a million of bonds daily, and the aggregate for the year
                    was enormous." These were western roads and what this meant for the upbuilding of this
                    section may easily be imagined. For the six years from 1849 to 1854, inclusive, the firm of Window,
                    Lanier and Company specialized in railroad securities, and during that time 10,724 miles of road
                    were built, nearly half of this mileage being in the middle West.
            
            This aspect of Mr. Lanier's activities, however, is but incidental to the main purpose of
                    this study, which is a consideration of his patriotic services to the State of Indiana and to the
                    nation. Four such services, entitling him to public remembrance, I will present in the order of
                    their occurrence. They were rendered modestly, inconspicuously, and history is virtually silent
                    about them, even those relating to our Civil War having no official recognition in the reports of
                    Adjutant-General Terrell covering that period. In reading the excerpts from the autobiography here
                    given it must be borne in mind that they were originally addressed not to the public but to members
                    of his own family.
            1. In the later forties Indiana was in a bad way. People had gone crazy over the idea that they could
                    get rich quickly by digging canals, building turnpikes and creating other internal improvements out
                    of all proportion to the wealth of the country, and now it was a case of having to pay the fiddler.
                    The state carried a debt, all told, of more than $16,000,000, which amounted to a little
                    over $20 per capita, whereas the wealth per capita was only $140. Something
                    like $11,000,000 of this debt had been borrowed abroad for the prosecution of the
                    improvement system that had been authorized by the famous law of 1836. In 1845 the interest on this
                    foreign capital, five years in arrears, amounted to $3,000,000. The bonds were quoted on
                    the market at forty cents on the dollar; the state was in danger of repudiation, and the creditors
                    were correspondingly alarmed and clamorous. During the legislative sessions of 1845–6 and
                    1846–7 there was a long fight over the elaborate measure known as the Butler bill, which
                    was finally passed. This was an attempt to relieve the acute situation by putting the whole foreign
                    debt on a new basis. The proposition was to exchange the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal and certain lands attaching thereto for one-half of the outstanding
                    bonds, while for the other half the state would issue new bonds. The creditor, by surrendering his
                    old bonds, was to receive canal stock and state stock in equal parts. It was, of course, optional
                    with the creditors to accept this plan, which was at best a compromise and, as it stood in the bill,
                    so complicated as to be grasped  with some difficulty by people
                    untrained in such matters. It was needful that a special agent be sent to Europe to confer with
                    these creditors and secure from them, if possible, the surrender of the old bonds. As there is no
                    mention whatever of this in the autobiography or in the scant matter available in the libraries, I
                    can not do better than quote from an article written by a correspondent to the Idianapolis Journal of December 11, 1880, while the subject of the sketch was still
                    living. The data seems to have been secured by a personal interview. The writer, over the signature
                    of "E. T. J.", after making the above statement, says: 
                        A mission of such delicacy and importance obviously required the services of a man of great
                            intelligence and address. Mr. Lanier was the man selected, and the result proved the wisdom
                            of the choice. The new securities, which consisted of certificates of state stock and
                            certificates of ownership in the old canal, in equal proportions, were placed in his hands
                            fully executed, but with dates, amounts and names of holders left blank, which blanks he was
                            authorized to fill. The business of the mission was accomplished with such remarkable
                            ability and success that in an incredibly short time he returned, having taken up nearly all
                            of the old bonds, which he brought home and surrendered.
                    
                
            2. With the oncoming of the Civil War and the call upon Indiana for troops the state found itself in
                    another predicament. On the receipt of the news that Fort Sumter had fallen Governor Morton
                    telegraphed to President Lincoln offering ten thousand men for the defense of the nation. The
                    raising of those ten thousand was easy enough, but equipping them for the field was another thing.
                    The state was heavily in debt with no money in the treasury and apparently no way to get any, its
                    credit being so bad no one would buy its bonds. A less resolute and less resourceful man than Morton
                    would have been swamped at the outset, but he only proceeded to make good his patriotic offer. In
                    the universal turmoil of the nation money was hard to get, even where credit was good, and in the
                    emergency Morton turned to Lanier, who advanced funds to the amount of $400,000.1 It was due to this loan that 
                  
                     1 The fact should be noted that there were other capitalist patriots
                            whose friendliness to Morton and the 
                                Union
                             cause prompted loans at the risk of loss. Among these are said to have been
                            Stoughton A. and Calvin Fletcher of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , though their services were done so quietly that only a fugitive tradition of
                            them exists.
               
                     General T. A. Morris' brigade, when it marched through 
                        Cincinnati
                     on its way to the front at the very beginning of the first campaign excited this
                    editorial comment in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Commercial: 
                        The governor of Indiana has outgeneraled the governor of 
                                Ohio
                            . The former has sent four admirably-equipped regiments to the battlefield and
                            has two more ready to march at an hour's notice. ∗ ∗
                            ∗ The Hoosier troops are all armed with rifled muskets, are uniformed, and
                            furnished with their complement of camp equipments.
                    
                
            Of the two other regiments, a few days later, the same paper said: "They were armed with the
                    new 
                        United States
                     muskets, of the most approved pattern. No 
                        Ohio
                     troops have such arms."
            3. The early part of 1863 was a dark period for Indiana. Aside from the general turmoil of the war it
                    was a seething cauldron internally. A predominating copperhead element in the legislature did all in
                    its power to frustrate the 
                        Union
                     cause and to cripple Morton's efforts in behalf of that cause. Morton himself,
                    so his enemies said, was a past-master at the art of enforcing his will by high-handed methods, but
                    he at least had a high motive for which history has justified him. The obstructionists, however,
                    cared nothing for his motives, and their hatred of the man in power bred the kind of "dirty
                    politics" which is all too common in our political history. Not the least of the sins of
                    this legislature was the deliberate failure to make any appropriations for the necessary expenses of
                    the state. Indiana's part in the war might become a disgrace; her insane and blind and
                    other dependents might be turned out of the institutions for want of money to care for them; she
                    might utterly ruin her credit by defaulting in the interest due to creditors—all that was
                    a secondary consideration. The first consideration was the personal hatreds and venom with which the
                    air reeked.
            In spite of all this, however, Morton saved the situation. From various sources he gathered up enough
                    to take care of military and current expenses, and to meet the interest on the state's debt
                    he again appealed to Lanier for a loan. It was at best, from a business point of view, a risky loan.
                    As the autobiography says:
            
            
                    The application was made at the darkest period of the whole war. I could have no security
                        whatever, and could rely for reimbursement only on the good faith of a legislature to be chosen
                        at a future and distant day, and upon the chances of its being made up of more upright and
                        patriotic members than those composing the one then in existence. If the great contest should
                        turn out disastrously to the cause of the 
                            Union
                         and of freedom I could never expect to be repaid a dollar. I felt, however, that on
                        no account must the debt of a great state be discredited, nor the position of its chief
                        magistrate, the ablest and most efficient of all the loyal governors, and who of all contributed
                        most to our success, be compromised or weakened. No alternative was left me but to advance the
                        sum required. I would not allow myself to be responsible for the consequences of a refusal of
                        his request. If the credit of the state in such a critical period should be destroyed, that of
                        other states, and even the federal government might be so impaired as to render it impossible
                        for them to sustain the immense burdens of the war. I accordingly addressed a note to the agent
                        of the state for the payment of the interest, offering to pay that falling due July 1st, 1863,
                        and requesting him to supply me with a list of the holders of the state stocks. He peremptorily
                        refused to furnish such list, being himself one of the conspirators in destroying the
                        'state's credit.2 A list had to be procured from other
                        sources of information. As soon as this was obtained I commenced the payment of interest, which
                        was thereafter promptly paid by me on the days it fell due. These payments were continued two
                        years. The whole amount advanced by me on this account was $640,000.
                
            In this the obstructionists found something to cavil at. Winslow, Lanier and Company had selfish
                    ulterior aims, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel suggested that "as a proper reproof to such audacious
                    impertience a prompt refusal ought to be given to the recognition of any part of this debt, so as to
                    let Governor Morton and Winslow, Lanier and Co. know that it is better that they attend to their own
                    business and let that of others alone." On the other hand many shared the view that
                    Lanier's action had averted a disgrace to the state which all citizens must have shared,
                    and the legislature of 1864 made provision for the repayment of the money loaned.
            4. The next call upon Mr. Lanier for patriotic service was in the interest of the general government,
                    and here again I quote the Journal correspondent. He says:
            
               
                  2 This correspondence in full may be found in William Dudley
                        Foulk's Life of Oliver P. Morton, Vol. 1, pp.
                    263–6.
            
            
            
                    The national debt incurred by the war was nearly $3,000,000,000. The whole debt except
                        $669,000,000 of greenbacks, bore interest at a high rate, more than one half of which
                        was payable in gold, upon which the premium was so high that practically the rate was more than
                        doubled. About nine-tenths of the whole debt was held by our own people, and only about
                        one-tenth was held abroad. In 
                            Europe
                         money was plenty and interest cheap. It was obvious that if foreign capitalists
                        could be induced to take our bonds the interest on our debt could be reduced and our national
                        burden materially lightened. But in 
                            Europe
                         there was a vast amount of erroneous opinion and but little correct information on
                        the subject of American finances, so that in order to excite a demand for our securities it was
                        first necessary that those who controlled the foreign money markets should be correctly informed
                        concerning our financial condition and apprised both of our immense resources and of the
                        overwhelming national determination that our debt should be paid. For the accomplishment of this
                        purpose no method could be more effective than to send a special agent of the proper experience,
                        knowledge and ability to visit and confer personally with the leading European capitalists.
                
            To shorten the story, Mr. Lanier was the one chosen for this mission, which he carried out with his
                    usual competency. At 
                        Frankfort
                    -on-the-Main he delivered before a large meeting of capitalists and bankers an address
                    that was published in several languages and widely circulated throughout Europe. The result of his
                    work there was so favorable that upon his return home, in the fall of 1865, "he received
                    not only the thanks of the government but the most gratifying acknowledgment through the loyal press
                    of the great estimation in which his services were held."
            Mr. Lanier always, to use his own words, "cherished a lively affection" for
                    Indiana. As long as he lived he retained the title to the fine old home he had built at 
                        Madison
                    , although his son, A. C. Lanier, lived there and was its virtual possessor. Ultimately
                    another son, Charles Lanier, presented the property as a home for the county historical society as
                    an abiding memorial to his father, and this society in turn transferred it to the keeping of the
                    state to be preserved both as a memorial and as the most imposing existing relic of a picturesque
                    period in our history.
            J. F. D. Lanier died in 
                        New York City
                    , August 29, 1881, and is buried in 
                        Greenwood
                     cemetery.
         
         
         
            The Grave of David Elkid
            By LOUIS A. WARREN, 
                        Zionsville
                    .
            It has been accepted, generally, that David Elkin, a former pastor of the Lincoln family in 
                        Kentucky
                    , preached the funeral service of Nancy Hanks Lincoln in 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana.
            A certain David Elkins, who is buried in an abandoned cemetery about three miles from Mitchell,
                    Indiana, is said to have been the minister who delivered the eulogy after the death of the
                    president's mother. I have visited this grave and the inscription on the tombstone is as
                    follows:
            "DAVID ELKINS / 2 S. C. MIL. / WAR 1812"
            He enlisted in the service in the War of 1812 from Richland District, 
                        South Carolina
                    , on October 17, 1814, and was discharged on March 9, 1815. It will be noted that this
                    David Elkins spelt his name with a final "s."
            I find the name of David Elkin on the tax list of 
                        Green County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , as early as 1800 and as late as 1842 when he entered for taxation 200 acres of land on
                    the Little Barren River. 
                        Spencer
                     in his "A History of 
                        Kentucky
                     Baptists," states that David Elkin preached for Good Hope Church in Green
                    County previous to 1811. The minute book of the South Fork Baptist Church which is still extant,
                    shows him to have been associated with that congregation. An order of April 4, 1812, reads:
                    "Brother Jesse Friend appointed to go and see Brother Elkin and request him to come and see
                    us." Jesse Friend was an uncle of Nancy Hanks Lincoln. Another order on the fourth Saturday
                    in March implies that Elkin was then 
                  
                     1 The Reverend Louis A. Warren, in his work on 
                        
                                    Lincoln
                                's Parentage and Childhood to be published this year by the
                            Century Company, has devoted considerable space to David Elkin. This brief account is a
                            summary of part of his findings.
               
                     their pastor. This church was within two miles of the
                    birthplace of 
                        Abraham Lincoln
                    .
            
               
                        Spencer
                     says that David Elkin preached the introductory sermon for the Russell Creek
                    Association in 1814. The marriage register of Hardin County shows Elkin to have solemnized a
                    marriage there on December 20, of the same year. In 1815 his name appears on the
                    commissioner's books of Green County as being a resident there. Green and Larue Counties
                    are adjacent and Larue was formerly a part of Hardin.
            Field Elkin, a grandson of Rev. David Elkin, told me that his grandfather was living at Mt. Sherman
                    near the Green-Larue County line at the time of his death and was buried in that community. I have
                    visited the Mt. Moriah cemetery where Field Elkin's father is buried and I am of the
                    opinion that the pioneer preacher also lies buried here, although the grave is not marked. The
                    tradition of this family has it, that David Elkin preached the funeral sermon of Nancy Hanks Lincoln
                    while on a visit to his two sons, Hodgen and 
                        Warren Elkin
                    , who then lived in Indiana.
         
         
         
            Documents
            LETTERS FROM CORRESPONDENCE
                    OF NOAH NOBLE
            
            By MRS. ESTHER NOBLE CARTER
            
            NOAH NOBLE
                    To HIS WIFE, CATHERINES.
                        NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Indianapo [lis],
                           
                                    Saturday June 2, 1821
                                
                        My dear Kitty.
                        I wrote you a line this morning by Jonathan McCarty which possibly you may not get.
                                    We got here Wednesday evening pretty tired the roads were extremely bad and what
                                    made it worse with me I got my back hurt which has been of some inconvenience to me
                                    indeed quite painful tho am now much better. On Thursday we rested and have since
                                    been in the woods, George1 stands the trip very well, he is now
                                    out exploring with McCarty while I attend to some business here. We will [this]
                                    evening cross the River westward to a Creek called Eagle Creek where we will stay
                                    possibly two or three days—Do my dear be very cautious of fire &
                                    take care of our sweet boy, I often think of you & him, you must be tired
                                    down with nurseing poor Tom,2 I intended to tell you [to] direct
                                    Purdue to hire some little girl to nurse but came away & forgot it, I also
                                    forgot to tell Herndon we did not want him longer, I hired 
                                        Bob Clark
                                     [m]orning I left home, if he is with you ask [Balance of letter
                                    destroyed].
                         MRS CATHERINE S. NOBLE
                            Hotel
                                    
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                     Indiana Mr Jno. Johnson
                     
                  
               
                
            WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
                    TO NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 
                              
                           
                                    [Postmarked Dee. 3.] [1836]
                                
                        Dear Governor
                        The Electors of your State will find perhaps some difficulty in fixing upon a
                                    candidate for the Vice Presidency. It is a matter of no great moment whether it is
                                    [John] Tyler or [Francis] Granger. The former would perhaps stand the best chance to
                                    be elected by the Senate if he 
                              
                                 1 Probably George Dunn, an intimate friend.
                              
                                 2 A son, who died at an early age.
                           
                                     should get there. But I believe that is at
                                    present out of the question. If they should Vote for Granger perhaps your Senators might think themselves bound to Vote for him.
                        We have lost the Election for President from the want of confidence on the part of
                                    our friends. The Arch Duke Charles might have won the battle of Wagram but he could
                                    not believe that he could beat Napoleon. Hence his efforts were directed to prevent
                                    an entire defeat rather than secure a Victory. Thus our friends had the Victory in
                                    their power but believing that the influence of Genl. Jackson & the
                                    application of the spoils could not be resisted they would not make the effort. This
                                    remark however does not apply to either of the North Western States. They fought the
                                    battle nobly And I am more gratified at having received the Votes of 
                                        Ohio
                                     Indiana & 
                                        Kentucky
                                     than I should have been to have succeeded without their support. It is
                                    truly astonishing that I should have received so large a Vote in Indiana when six of
                                    the Representatives & both Senators exerted themselves so much against me. I
                                    could not have believed this possible of 
                                        Hendricks
                                    .4 The other man5 I have for
                                    some time believed to be altogether unsound in principle. H. has often said that
                                    there was no man in the 
                                        Union
                                     who could contend with me in Indiana Surely after his desertion of me
                                    my friends will not support him. I have received a letter from John Sargent of
                                    Philad'a He says that my friends are so well satisfied with my strength
                                    that they are determined to continue me as the rallying point for an other contest.
                                    I am determined to remain perfectly quiesscent & let them pursue their own
                                    Course.
                        I have received with great surprise information that our friend Sheets was likely to
                                    loose his office. I trust however that it is not so. I shall write to day to Dr.
                                    [Hiram] Decker & tell him to speak to Myers who altho a rough fellow has
                                    much generosity & as he served with [Thomas] 
                                        Randolph
                                     in the battle of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     he I think will not oppose his only Representative in this country
                                    Apropos of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    , I have received a letter from a Mr. Dan Mace of Williams-port in your
                                    State telling me that he wished to introduce a resolution into the Legislature to
                                    have portraits procured of [Jacob] Warwick & [Spier] Spencers for the Hall
                                    of the Representatives & he asks some information of me in relation to them.
                                    As there are no likenesses of these men to be procured & as it would be
                                    considered partial to select them from others I recommended to him if he made any
                                    motion of the kind to substitute a picture of the battle instead of Portraits of
                                    Individuals which would excite no interest unless they were known to be likenesses.
                                    I desired him to consider this recommendation Confidential. I hope you will have no
                                    hesitation in recommending to your Legislature to appropriate every Dollar of the
                                    Surplus revenue which has been assigned 
                              
                                 4 William Hendricks, 
                                                United States
                                             senator from Indiana, 1826–1837.
                              
                                 5 John Tipton, 
                                                United States
                                             senator from Indiana, 1831–1839.
                              
                                 6 Captain Jacob Warrick was mortally wounded and
                                            Captain Spier Spencer killed, in the Battle of 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            .
                           
                                     to you7 The villanous
                                    suggestions of the Globe to the contrary notwithstanding. Rest assured that it will
                                    never be reclaimed by the U. S. under any circumstances. If money should be wanted
                                    it would be preferred to get it either by indirect taxation (customs) or by
                                    borrowing rather than call on the States who have no other means of repaying what
                                    they have received but by direct taxation or by borrowing it. The former mode would
                                    be burdensome upon Agriculture, the latter extremely unequal as one State could get
                                    money upon infinitely better terms than an other. Use the money & I will
                                    answer that it is never reclaimed.
                        It is not considered proper in person [s] situated as I am to address letters of
                                    thanks to the people of the States who were their supporters and if it is done in
                                    one case it must be done in a [ll.] I wish you to say to the members of the
                                    Legislature & others th[at I am] proud of the Support of Indiana &
                                    that my gratitude [will be] eternal.
                        If Dr. Decker should by any means be [prevented] from attending the meeting of the
                                    Electors I will thank you to ask Mr. Sheets to take my letter out of the Post office
                                    & direct it to him at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    . My best regards to your family I am
                        
                                    truly yours
                                    W. H. HARRISON.
                                
                        P. S. In relation to H—s. Your brother James said that he did not
                                    know that there was a man in the world that had any influence with him but myself.
                                    Sargent writes, that I out ran the Whig ticket in Pa & I see that the Same
                                    thing has taken place in 
                                        Delaware
                                     & elsewhere To his Excellency GEM.
                                        NOBLE
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
                    TO NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              North Bend
                           
                                    15th January 1838.
                        My dear Sir
                        I have hitherto made it a point to write to no one on the subject of the Presidency
                                    but in answer to letters received. That I make you an exception to this rule I beg
                                    you to consider as a mark of my high confidence in your friendship &
                                    discretion. I would have remained perfectly quiescent if my political friends who
                                    are opposed to me had not pursued a course towards me so unjust, ungenerous,
                                    & as they perhaps may find so impolitic. These Gentlemen & the
                                    leaders of our opponents are in fact pursuing the same course in relation to me. Of
                                    this there is abundant evidence. Take the following which I beg you to consider
                                    confidential at least as regards names. J. B. Thomas now a resident of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     has lately received a letter from Mr. Snyder8 of
                                    the H. of 
                              
                                 7 A reference to the "loan" to the
                                            several states of the surplus in the 
                                                United States
                                             treasury on Jan. 1, 1837, as provided by the law of June 23,
                                            1836. As 
                                                Harrison
                                             predicted, it was never reclaimed by the federal government.
                              
                                 8 Adam W. Snyder of 
                                                Illinois
                                            .
                           
                                     R. U. S. which he sent me by Major G
                                    [illegible] to read. Snyder was his Protegee. There had however been no
                                    correspondence between them for some years The letter of S. was written under the
                                    impression that T. was either a V[an]. B[uren]. man or like himself (Snyder, who was
                                    at the called Session a conservative) a little shaken in his faith but who might be
                                    brought back to the true faith by showing that the tide of popularity was again
                                    setting in favor of V. B. He informs him first in a congratulatory way that Genl.
                                    H[arrison]. is completely as it regards the Presidency "hors
                                        de combat that all the Members of Congress are in "favor of Mr.
                                    Clay or Mr. Webster Indeed that there is no leading man any where in his
                                    favor" He then goes on to State the prospects which this State of things
                                    opens to V. B. 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     they are assured from (Mr. B[uchanan] the Senator) will certainly go
                                    for him. From N. York they learn that the people regret the sudden ebullition of
                                    passion by which they were actuated at the last falls election & are coming
                                    back to their first love. From the South they have the most cheering news."
                                    Thus it appears that the leaders of both parties are playing into each others hands
                                    to effect a common object. I would leave them to effect it without interruption (at
                                    least from me) if I were alone concerned. But as many of my friends & a
                                    large portion of the opponents of the present administration believe that the
                                    Success of this Scheme would prove destructive to our hopes of taking the Government
                                    of the Country from the corrupt hands of those who now possess it I have promised
                                    the former not to abandon them until I am convinced that the Majority of the people
                                    of our party were opposed to me. Still I would have suffered Matters to take their
                                    own course without the least personal interference if I had been treated as I should
                                    have been. But my indignation has been strongly excited by the unworthy means which
                                    have been taken to force me out of the list of candidates. By the larger portion of
                                    the prominent prints throughout the 
                                        Union
                                     my name has been proscribed but for abuse or to shew that I was losing
                                    ground with the people. Even a public speech on the absorbing political
                                    topic's of the day has been refused a publication in the leading Papers.
                                    Mr. [John] Chambers of Rent'y & Mr. [George H.] Dunn of
                                    Ind'a. in vain endeavored to get it published in the National
                                    Intelligencer. Judge Hanson of 
                                        Baltimore
                                     informs me that he had called so often on the Editor of the Chronicle
                                    to publish it (as he had promised) that he must forbear to repeat it. Genl. Murphy
                                    of 
                                        Chillicothe
                                     sent a temperate article (through Mr. [William Key] Bond the
                                    Representative) to Gales & Seaton9 urging the States to
                                    come into the proposition of 
                                        Ohio
                                     & declaring if they did not do it that the State would be
                                    absolved from their obligation to agree to a convention at all. They refused to give
                                    it a place in their paper. Meetings have been held by the 
                              
                                 9 Joseph Gales and William W. Seaton, proprietors of
                                            the National Intelligencer, 
                                                Washington
                                            .
                           
                                     people in my favor numerously attended
                                    & at public dinners proceedings have been held favorable to me but beyond
                                    the circulation of the local prints they were never heard of whilst every incident
                                    however trifling which could shew an encreasing strength for Mr. Clay or Mr. Webster
                                    was blasoned forth by every means which the widely extended circulation of the
                                    papers in their interest furnished. Many of the papers out of the City of N. York
                                    & within that State have declared that the Majority of the people were
                                    opposed to the proceedings of the City & were not in favor of either Mr. C.
                                    or Mr. W. But the leading papers would not re-publish them & the people in
                                    the distant States were thus kept ignorant of the real state of the feelings of the
                                    people of the State of 
                                        New York
                                     When I was in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     last week I received a paper published in 
                                        New Burgh
                                     (
                                        N Y.
                                    ) containing an Article which absolutely ridiculed the Attempt to
                                    dictate to the people of the State on the part of the 
                                        New York City
                                     Editors. It declared unequivocally that the State could not go for
                                    either Mr. Clay or Mr. Webster & it gave the reasons for it. This paper was
                                    taken by a friend of mine to the Whi[g M S torn] but the Editor would not publish it
                                    Altho it [treated] the characters of Mr. C. & Mr. W. with the highest
                                    respect. [In] the mean time the Members of Congress are circulating the information
                                    which they say they receive from othe[r] Members that N. Y & all the Eastern
                                    States as well as the s[o]uthern States are in favor of Mr. C or Mr. W &
                                    that they have only doubts of 
                                        Ohio
                                     Inda. & Penna. A letter of this kind was written to the Editor
                                    of the Rushville paper & he gravely asked whether these facts ought not to
                                    make the Indiana Convention "to pause" He
                                    asserts that the writer is a warm friend of mine but he assumes that guise the more
                                    surely to injure me, he cannot be my friend. For that is what my enemies aim at,
                                    'to keep back any movements by the people until they have time to mature
                                    their plans. When I left 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     on Saturday Evg arrangements were making for a public meeting to be
                                    held tomorrow. You will have an opportunity of seeing the proceedings before the
                                    Convention meets. I enclose you a letter recently received from a distinguished
                                    member of the Pa Convention. I have received many of late from that State of the
                                    same tenor. I regret that I have not one from Mr. Ringott who represents 
                                        Lancaster County
                                     in the Convention but it is [in] Cinti. Mr. R. gives me the substance
                                    of a Conversation he had with Mr. Sargeant in which that Gentleman admitted that
                                    they could not get Pa without me & they were sure of it with me. Indeed I
                                    have a letter from that gentleman written last 
                                        Spring
                                     in which he said that they were indebted to me for the Majority they
                                    had in the Convention. I commit these facts to you to be used according to yr.
                                    discretion.
                        Present my best respects to Mrs. Noble.
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    W. H. HARRISON.
                                
                        Honble NOAH NOBLE Esqr.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            O. H. SMITH
                    To NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Washington City
                                 
                              
                           
                                    6th Decr 1839.
                        Dear Sir.
                        You will perceive from the papers that we are not yet organized, the Ho of Reps. have
                                    called a halt on the 
                                        New Jersey
                                     members & when or how it will be settled we cannot foresee. We
                                    have nothing direct from Harrisburgh but the impression here is that the prospect
                                    for the nomination of Genl Scott is strong—It will evidently lie between 
                                        Scott
                                     and 
                                        Harrison
                                    —
                                        New York
                                    , 
                                        Va.
                                     & the whole East, I learn are for 
                                        Scott
                                    —Pa Bz the West for 
                                        Harrison
                                     & the South for 
                                        Clay
                                    —Rumor says the friends of Mr Clay will not press him at this
                                    time—Tal[l]madge for vice prest. conceeded—A few days will
                                    solve the problem. Mr. Clay seems calm and composed, & looks
                                    fin—ur delegation are in good health, except Mr [Senator Albert S.] 
                                        White
                                     and I think he is on the gaining hand—
                        My best respect to your family
                        
                                    Respectfully
                                    O. H. SMITH.
                                
                        NOAH NOBLE Esq
                     
                  
               
                
            HENRY CLAY
                    TO NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Ashland
                           
                                    8h. Sept 1834
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I duly recd. your favor of the 2d. As you do not mention the receipt of a short
                                    letter which I addressed to you, of prior date, I presume it had not reached you. I
                                    repeat the expression contained in it of my hearty congratulations on your recent
                                        election.10 Considering the opposition you encountered, the
                                    result was as gratifying as it is decisive. The course you pursued as to the
                                    Presidential election was both judicious & conformable to the general
                                    understanding among the Whigs previous to the adjournment of Congress. It was deemed
                                    best to designate no Presidential Candidate until after the Fall elections, so as to
                                    combine the whole strength of the entire opposition against the Adm'on and
                                    against Mr. V. Buren. In the course of next winter it is to be hoped that there can
                                    be an union effected on some Candidate. I think, at last, we have reason to hope
                                    that we shall get rid of the miserable concern at the head of public affairs. All my
                                    information justifies the belief that the Whigs will succeed in 
                                        N. York
                                    , 
                                        New Jersey
                                    , Penna. and 
                                        Maryland
                                    : and there is a strong probability of their success in 
                                        Maine
                                    . 
                                        Rhode Island
                                     has fulfilled our hopes.
                        I have long wished to visit 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , and I should be highly gratified to do so; but I regret that it is not
                                    in my power to accept your friendly invitation this fall. I have been ten months out
                                    of the last twelve from home; and my private affairs require my presence here until
                                    the time arrives for me to proceed to 
                                        Washington
                                    . I must therefore postpone the pleasure of seeing your part of Indiana
                                    to some more convenient 
                              
                                 10 Reelection as governor, for the term
                                            1834–1837.
                           
                                     day. I was induced strongly to anticipate the
                                    satisfaction of seeing you here this week, at our Cattle shew; and I have not
                                    abandoned the expectation. Should it not be in your power to come at that time, I
                                    hope you will visit us during the races which take place in the course of the next
                                    week. You will see our neighbourhood in a pleasant condition; for after a long and
                                    most distressing drought, we have just had fine rains that will restore vegetation,
                                    and render our fields once more verdant.
                        Has 
                                        Tipton
                                     renounced Jacksonism? I fear he is not to be relied on. He affects
                                    candor and liberality, but cunning is his predominant quality. What is the political
                                    complexion of your Legislature?
                        I am, with sentiments of great respect t esteem,
                        
                                    Your friend t obt. servt.
                                    H. CLAY.
                                
                        His Excelly N. NOBLE.
                     
                  
               
                
            HENRY CLAY
                    To NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Ashland
                           
                                    22d. Sept. 1834.
                        My dear sir
                        I have to thank you for your very acceptable present of the Tamarack tree, and that
                                    which you intended of the Cranberry vines, sent by Mr. Maguire. The latter I learn
                                    he could not conveniently bring, and the loss of them I regret less because I have
                                    no situation adapted to them here. The former came in excellent condition, and I
                                    have planted it according to your directions. The season is favorable; and it will,
                                    I think, live. I shall always recollect the friendly source of the donation, and the
                                    interesting spot of its nativity.
                        I regretted that you could not visit us during the Cattle exhibition. It was a very
                                    fine one, presenting a great display of superior Stock. You must really come and see
                                    us on a similar or some other occasion.
                        There is no doubt that No. Carolina has left the administration. In 
                                        Maine
                                     our defeat is really a victory, considering the great changes, and the
                                    equality of the contest. They have made a nomination of Govr. in 
                                        N. York
                                     on the part of the Whigs which seems to give general satisfaction; and
                                    my correspondents speak in a tone of great confidence as to the issue of the
                                    struggle in the Empire State upon the whole, I entertain a strong conviction that at
                                    last Jacksonism is subdued. It will make tremendous efforts this autumn, and will
                                    here and there maintain a doubtful ascendancy; but its general march is downward and
                                    rapidly.
                        With great esteem & regard
                        
                                    I am Yos' faithfully
                                    H. CLAY
                           
                                
                        N. NOBLE Esq
                     
                  
               
                
            HENRY CLAY
                    To NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Washn
                           
                                    4h. Mar. 1837.
                        My dear sir
                        I recd. with much satisfaction your friendly letter of the 10h. ulto. but should have
                                    much more in shaking you by the hand as the Senator from Indiana.
                        
                        I have seen Mr. Smith.11 He talks well, and I hope will act well.
                                    He can hardly do more than his predecessor.
                        We have strong hopes of the next H. of R. if you can Keep right in
                                    Indiana.
                        
                           
                                        Jackson
                                     played the tyrant to the last. Knowing that the Currency bill would be
                                    passed if he exercised his veto against it, he pocketed the bill!
                        The H. of R. during the few last days of its existence displayed much spirit and
                                    independence.
                        Excuse this brief letter, which I write principally to assure you of the affectionate
                                    attachment of
                        
                                    Your Sincere friend
                                    H. CLAY.
                                
                        H[IS] E[XCELLENCY] N. NOBLE.
                     
                  
               
                
            HENRY CLAY
                    TO NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Ashland
                           
                                    20h. June 1837.
                        (Confidential)
                        My dear sir
                        I am sure that you will agree With me in thinking that the unfortunate Condition of
                                    our Common Country is such, at present, as to fill every patriotic bosom with the
                                    deepest solicitude and to animate to the greatest exertions to relieve it from its
                                    existing embarrassments. No time has ever occurred, within my knowledge, in which it
                                    was more evidently the duty of us all to repress individual aspiration or ambition
                                    and to dedicate our undivided energies to the rescue of the Country, the
                                    Constitution and the public Councils from the hands of those who have brought upon
                                    us our present difficulties and who are leading us rapidly to ruin.
                        Whether any effective remedy for the disorders which prevail will be provided or not
                                    depends very much upon the Constitution of the approaching H. of R. If the States
                                    which have now to elect members shall return the same number of 
                                        Jackson
                                     or V. Buren delegates that they had in the last Congress, there will
                                    be, I think, no prospect of adopting any beneficial measure. In that event, it will
                                    be argued by the Administration party, and with much plausibility, that the People
                                    approve the past, and cling, for the future, to the same men whose policy has
                                    produced the present state of things.
                        In 
                                        Kentucky
                                     we have a fair prospect of reducing the 4 members of the 
                                        Jackson
                                     party, who were in the last Congress to two, and perhaps one. Indeed
                                    there are some who are so sanguine as to believe that we shall not elect one. For
                                    myself, I would compromise at two.
                        What are your prospects in Indiana? I hear, with regret, that in some of the
                                    Districts there is division among our friends, to such an 
                              
                                 11 O. H. Smith was the successful candidate for
                                            election by the legislature to the 
                                                United States
                                             senate for the term 1837–1843.
                           
                                     extent as to endanger the result. Can nothing
                                    be done to heal it, and to prevent such an inauspicious event. Can not, you, my dear
                                    sir, to whom the Whigs are already so much indebted, do something, in the way of
                                    conciliation and harmony, to encrease their obligations to you?
                        I am told particularly, that in the District lately represented by Genl. McCartylz if
                                    the existing divisions are not healed, a V. B. member will be returned. Is it not
                                    possible to prevent that? Can not the strongest man of our party be run, and the
                                    others be prevailed upon to retire? Whatever personal wishes any of us might have,
                                    in respect to the Candidates, ought to be unhesitatingly sacrificed to the good of
                                    our Country, which should be paramount.
                        Of Genl. Mcarty, I will say, without knowing what may be your feelings towards him,
                                    that when he was first elected to Congress, I regretted it; but that for the two or
                                    three last Sessions he has been a resolute, unflinching and highly useful opponent
                                    of the Administration. As he has ceased long since to be a 
                                        Jackson
                                     man, we must suppose upon conviction and in all sincerity, good policy
                                    would point to his reelection, unless there be against it reasons of which I am
                                    unaware. If we discourage and discountenance Converts from the other party, we may
                                    long continue in the minority. Whilst uniform and consistent friends, who have been
                                    always faithful, ought not to be neglected, we should at the same time, in the
                                    spirit of our religion, hold out the hand of forgiveness and friendship to those
                                    erring men who sincerely repent and change. By doing so, we ultimately advance the
                                    interests of those very steadfast friends whom, for a moment, we may appear to
                                    overlook. We have had great hopes of Indiana, arising out of the issue of your last
                                    fall election. Do my dear sir write me soon and write me, if you can, that these
                                    hopes will be realized.
                        
                                    Your friend & obt. Servt.
                                    H. CLAY
                           
                                
                        GOVR. NOBLE
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            HENRY CLAY
                    To NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Ashland
                           
                                    18h. July 42.
                        My Dear Sir
                        I received your favor of the 12h. You will have seen what I said, in my Speech at the
                                    Lexn. Barbecue, about leaving the People to the undisturbed exercise of their
                                    choice, in regard to a Chief Magistrate, my resolution to remain passive &c.
                                    Now I must bear all that in mind, if I should be, as seems probable, the Whig
                                    Candidate.
                        As to the idea of my traversing the whole 
                                        Union
                                     it would be physically impossible, and if I attempted such a tour it
                                    would destroy me physically.
                        The only ground upon which a visit to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     can be justified would be my former engagement, the fulfillment of
                                    which is desired or insisted on by my friends. And, if such be the fact, I repeat
                                    what I 
                              
                                 12 Jonathan McCarty, 
                                                Fort Wayne
                                            . 1835–1837.
                           
                                     said in my former letter that I will go there
                                    some time in October. If I do go, I hope it will be promulgated that the visit is
                                    made on that ground. And I should also have to require from the goodness of my
                                    friends that I should not be expected to visit any other place.
                        There is time enough to think of the matter, and, if it be finally decided on, to
                                    make the necessary arrangements.
                        Be pleased to present my warm regards to Mr. Dunn.
                        I am with great respect
                        
                                    Your friend & obt. Servt.
                                    H. CLAY.
                                
                        N. NOBLE Esq.
                     
                  
               
                
            E. D. JOHN
               18
                    TO NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Galveston
                                 
                              
                           
                                    27th Decr. 1842.
                        My dear Sir
                        Ten thousand Thanks to you my dear friend for your kindness in bringing me my
                                    children they are most welcome to my home in this land of strangers. Isaac E. Wade
                                    who goes over in the Neptune will hand you in a day or two after his arrival
                                    $110. The amount expended for my childrens traveling expenses.
                        You say you can not come over for want of Means. I can not visit 
                                        New Orleans
                                     for some time, but can not think of you returning home without seeing
                                    you. The favor & advantage will all be on my side then as you intend
                                    spending the Winter in the South come over on the Neptune & it shall cost
                                    you nothing for coming & returning nor while here. It is absolutely
                                    necessary for me to see you then don't hesitate but come over. The sea
                                    voyage will be of service to you & this climate will do you more good than
                                    the damp City of 
                                        New Orleans
                                     I shall confidently expect you—I have looked over your
                                    letter hastily, & have not time to reply to it before the Neptune leaves
                                    & confidently expecting you over this trip shall not write again until she
                                    returns—
                        I send you a paper giving the result of my difficulties with Merrill. He is a most
                                    infamous Scoundrel but not quite Smart enough to carry out his designs.
                        The Arbitrations the two on each side gave me all I
                                    ask'd—& the result has plc'd Merrill in such a
                                    point of light that even decent rascals in 
                                        Texas
                                     are ashamed of him—
                        Sherwood is here—The Arbitration lasted 8 days I had no council but
                                    managed my own case. Merrill had two Lawyers—
                        Do come over it will do you good & it will enable you to remain in the South
                                    until 
                                        Spring
                                    —
                        Can write no more now all well—
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    E. D. JOHN
                           
                                
                        NOAH NOBLE Esq.
                         Mr. Wade has to collect a Draft before he can pay you—you will find
                                    him on the Boat Neptune—The Clerks name is also Wade
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  13 E. D. John married 
                            Noble
                        's sister, Eloise.
            
            
            I. S. SULLIVAN
                    TO SAMUEL HOUSTON
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New Orleans
                                 
                              
                           
                                    14th Jay. 1843
                                
                        His Excellency SAM. HOUSTON
                        
                        Dr. Sir
                        Permit me to introduce to your acquaintence the bearer of this 
                                        Noah Noble
                                     Ex. Govr. of the State of Indiana.
                        His object in visiting 
                                        Texas
                                     is the improvement of his health, and to see the country.
                        
                                    I am your Most humble & obt servt.
                                    I. S. SULLIVAN.
                                
                        P. S. I am glad to inform you, that your opinion as to the use of the water of
                                    the Hot Springs, was correct, I am, well. I. S. S.
                     
                  
               
                
            JOHN T. MILLS
                    TO WILL H. DANGERFIELD
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New Orleans
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Jany 17th 1843
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        Allow me to introduce to yr acquaintance Ex Gov. 
                                        Noble
                                     of the State of Indiana, who intends passing some time in our Country.
                        The Kindness and Courtesy bestowed upon him will be duly appreciated by himself and
                                    at the same time be a matter of gratification to your
                        
                                    Friend and Servant
                                    JNO. T. MILLS.
                                
                        WILL. H. DANGERFIELD Esqr
                     
                  
               
                
            WILLIAM STEEDS
                    TO COLONEL T. B. S. HADLEY
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New Orleans
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Jany 17th. /43
                                
                        Dr. Col.
                        A favorable opportunity now presents itself of writing to one of my kindest friends.
                                    I often think of you all with feelings of the most pleasurable emotion, my friends I
                                    can never forget. Since last March I have been residing in this city, forced here
                                    from the influence of that powerful tyrant called ambition. I often inquire after
                                    you, when I meet with persons from 
                                        Texas
                                    . You must write to me when you have leisure and tell me all the news.
                                    This letter will be handed to you by Gov: 
                                        Noble
                                     of Indiana a native of my mother country, he visits 
                                        Texas
                                     to see some friends as well for the benefit of a short sea voyage. It
                                    is unnecessary to say to you, "Please show him such attentions as he may
                                    desire," your feelings will prompt you to rendre him every kindness. The
                                    Gov: is a warm hearted Virginian, an agreeable companion, and a perfect gentleman,
                                         it affords me great pleasure to introduce
                                    to your acquaintance so estimable a personage.—
                        
                                    Yr. friend
                                    WM. STEEDS
                           
                                
                        P. S Present my best love to Mrs. Hadley & family to Mr. Runnels
                                    & Judge Smith &c. w. s.
                     
                  
               
                
            L. P. ANDREWS
                    TO NOAH NOBLE
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Steam Boat Diamond near Cini.
                           
                                    May 4th 1843.
                        Gov. NOBLE,
                        Dear Sir,
                        On leaving 
                                        Texas
                                     you desired me to write you respecting the progress of the public
                                    Sentiment relative to a change of our institutions on the subject of slavery.
                        I arrived at 
                                        Galveston
                                     as you recollect the evening before you left. At that point I found the
                                    leading men in favor of the new views—Saml. Williams, Sydnor, Jno. B.
                                    Jones, the Bordens, etc. The subject was hotly discussed in the streets four or five
                                    days when an opposition was secretly organised and I was sent from the
                                        Town, treated however with the utmost respect and Courtesy. This energetic
                                    measure was conducted by a less influential class of men than those that I have
                                    mentioned and as they took upon themselves to threaten these last as well as myself
                                    they carried the matter a little too far and the public sentiment recoiled somewhat
                                    upon them as I think. The expression of sentiment however was of course considerably
                                    checked for the time at 
                                        Galveston
                                    , but continues in other parts of the country and so far as I can judge
                                    the cause is gaining many efficient friends. These facts have already reached the
                                    South and the campaign is now fairly opened. In the N[ew]. O[rleans]. Bee of the 22d
                                    and the Bulletin of the 26th you will find articles on the subject—of
                                    course in opposition but as soon as these papers reach the north a different voice
                                    will be heard I remained in 
                                        Texas
                                     after the event I have mentioned about three weeks until all excitement
                                    growing out of it had been extinguished—Came through 
                                        Galveston
                                     without molestation, and am now on my way to the north (N. Y.) to
                                    endeavour to enlist leading men and papers to change their tone towards 
                                        Texas
                                     and encourage instead of discouraging emigration to that country. In
                                    this business I wish also to enlist you. You are situated in the heart of a portion
                                    of the U. S. to which the friends of the cause in 
                                        Texas
                                     look for a great current of population in consequence of the proposed
                                    change. It is all important that this emigration commence soon to show that the mere
                                    proposition has had a favorable effect. 6000 emigrants going into 
                                        Texas
                                     next fall from the North and west would render the change certain. You
                                    have influence can you not enter into the matter in good earnest and stand good for
                                    a portion of that number. It is the commencement of a grand revolution and one for
                                    which I sincerely believe  after a residence of
                                    four years in 
                                        Texas
                                     the times are ripe. I saw today Mr. Printess of the 
                                        Louisville
                                     Advertiser who says that it [is] the only thing that can save 
                                        Texas
                                     and says he will write an editorial to that effect. Please write me
                                    forthwith. My address will be at times N. Y. though I shall probably proceed in a
                                    few weeks to 
                                        England
                                     and return to 
                                        Texas
                                     in the fall. For a 
                                        Texas
                                     Corrispondent I would recommend Mr. A. J. Yates.
                        
                                    Your Obt. Servt.—
                                    L. P. ANDREWS.
                                
                        P. S. Excuse the effect of the jar of the S[team]. B[oat]. on my
                                characters.
                     
                  
               
                
            A. B. DAVIDSON
                    TO GENERAL ALEXANDER H. DAVIDSON
               14
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Hadley Seat
                           
                                    March 28th 1844.
                        Dear Alexr.—
                        Some eight or ten days ago, your last letter was recd. You have met with a sore
                                    bereavement in the death of Gov. Noble15 Such trials must be
                                    experienced to know their weight. When intimate and dear friends part with the
                                    prospect of meeting again at a distant period, it is an affecting scene. But when
                                    they part and that for the last time; when that intimate and tender union is to be
                                    forever dissolved; then indeed it becomes doubly interesting. To see those ties
                                    about to be dissolved, which had long bound them in intimate and familiar union
                                    gives a painful shock to the bleeding heart. With deep anxiety the insidious
                                    approaches of the enimy is watched. Art in vain has tried her skill, the raging
                                    dissease mocks the power of medicine and the silver cord of life is torn assunder.
                                    He is now wraped in a shroud, nailed in a Coffin and laid in the house appointed for
                                    all the living.
                        We return home where he lived and there every thing reminds of the friend whom we
                                    have lost. The clothes he wore, the room in which he lay; every thing reminds us of
                                    him whom we have lossed.
                        But although the heart is thus deeply wounded and opens its flood gates to give vent
                                    to its sorrow; yet we do not mourn as those who have no hope. A voice from the
                                    heavenly Messenger cries, dry up those tears thou Mourning Widow and thou orphant
                                    children "thy friend is not dead but Sleepeth." Ere long, you will
                                    be permitted to rejoin him in that world where parting is no more. Yes, many of our
                                    friends are dead; but we shall meet again. This is a most pleasing idea held out by
                                    our Lord, that is, when we shall fail; that is die, our friends
                                    who have gone before, being minis [ter] ing spirits to us here, will stand upon the
                                    confines of eternity, waiting untill our spirit is dislodged, and will then convoy
                                    it into everlasting habitations. I had a pious father & Mother 
                              
                                 14 Alexander Davidson married 
                                                Noble
                                            's only daughter. Catharinc.
                              
                                 15
                                            
                                                Noah Noble
                                             died February 8, 1844.
                           
                                     and many other dear friends who are now in
                                    glory. The thought that, very shortly, this throng of immortal spirits, will stand,
                                    to welcome me home to the heavenly paradice, wakes up all my sencibilities and
                                    prompts me to sing with the imortal Watts,
                                        "O glorious hour, O blest abode,
                                        I shall be near and like my God;
                                        Nor flesh, nor Sin no more controle,
                                        The sacred pleasures of the Soul."
                                     Tell Mrs. Noble, I most sincerely sympathize with her in the loss of so
                                    dear a friend. I hope, however, she will be comforted with the promise of him who
                                    said "I will be a husband to the widow and leave your fatherless children
                                    to me, I will take care of them. These are events in our life which we may all look
                                    for. They teach us that here we have no home, and that we ought always to be in
                                    readiness for our departure. "Blessed is he who when his Lord cometh, shall
                                    find watching."—I notice in the Observer, that Mrs. [
                                        Henry
                                     Ward] Beecher and the Editor are still interchanging communications.
                                    Mr. Converse has given the Editor of the Watchman a pritty severe overhauling.
                                    Converse is hard to head, upon any subject— For my own
                                    part, I am truly sick of the everlasting whineing about the social relations of the
                                    Southern people. It seems to me, that your good people Ministers as well as others
                                    are attempting to be wise above what is written and spend a little
                                    too much of their time in fixing the standard of their neighbours consciences, when,
                                    perhaps, if they were to look at home they would find more important matters
                                    neglected—I w[oul]d like for them to tell me in what part of the good
                                    Book, slavery is denounced and the slave holder excommunicated. If it is there, I
                                    cant find it. The first case of slavery I read of is that of Hagar, Sarahs'
                                    slave. She ran off and the Angel met her in the wilderness and addressed her as
                                    Sarahs' slave and told her to go back and submit herself to her Mistress.
                                    Not a word about slavery being a crime. Abraham it seems had upwards of 300 born in
                                    his house and who went out with him to war. Leah & Racheal had handmaids
                                    given to them by their father and remained with them while they lived. It was even
                                    ordained of God as Moses declared, "Of the heathen that are round about
                                    you, you shall buy bond men & bond women and they shall be your possession and you shall take them as an inheritance for
                                    your children after you, they shall be your bondmen for ever. See Lev.
                                    25.—"An inheritance". It seems they were held as property, bought and
                                    sold.
                        I cant find that our Savior or his Apostles ever uttered one sylable against slavery.
                                    It could not be malum per se—a break of the Moral
                                    law—If so, God could not have sanctioned it under any circumstances. And
                                    as to the policy of it as a mere political or, social relation in life, our Savior
                                    did not forbid it. On the contrary he recognized the relation and exhorted them to
                                    the reciprocal discharge of their respective duties.
                        Paul seems to have had a little more charity for a slave holder than many of your
                                    Western Christians. He address Philemon, who was a  slave holder, as "his dearly beloved, his
                                    fellow labourer in Christ."—Strange that the Apostles w[oul]d Act thus if
                                    slavery be accursed of the Lord. Some think the golden Rule of our
                                    Lord is inconsistent with slavery. But they pervert the Rule. Their mode of
                                    construing it would level all distinctions in life. It w[oul]d lead to the true Godwinian or, Fanny Wright System. The true meaning of the Rule
                                    is, that I am to treat my slave as I w[oul]d have a right to be treated if I were
                                    the slave and he the master. I am to treat my debtor in the same way as I w[oul]d
                                    have a right to be treated if I were the debtor. Not as I w[oul]d wish to be
                                    treated. I might wish to have the debt forgiven, therefore, according to their rule
                                    he is bound to release me—I am poor, I might wish to have the riches of a
                                    wealthy man, therefore, he is bound to give his riches to me. You see what sad work
                                    this Rule, thus expounded, would mak—Our Savior, attached but little
                                    importance to the mere social relations we may sustain in this life. Art thou called
                                    a Servant, care not for it—As to religion, their consciences are left
                                    free—They worship God as it seems right in their own eyes. They join what
                                    Church they please. They have the Sab. to rest and serve God and as large a
                                    proportion of them are professing Christians as the Whites And in a temporal point
                                    of view, they are better off than ninetenths of the lower class of 
                                        White
                                     people—
                        But I am run[n]ing on as if I were writing a Book—enough—A sad
                                    affair happened in our Town last week—old Archy Beard was living in a
                                    little House of Robt. Pains' and wishing to get him out of it got a parcel
                                    of Boys to beat the Drum and stone his house. He had applied to the Majestrates for
                                    protiction but none was granted—So one night while anoying him thus he
                                    fired a gun loaded with slugs and killed a young man by the name of Donald. He is to
                                    be tried tomorrow—My best regards to all the family—We are all
                                    well—Yours tr—
                        
                                    A. B. DAVIDSON.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            [
                        Terre Haute
                    ] Register Mailing List
            This oldest extant subscription list of the Register, together with a copy of Vol.
                    2, No. 30, May 7, 1826 of the Western Register & 
                            Terre Haute
                         Advertiser, as it was then styled, edited by J. W. Osborn, was furnished by
                    Mrs. S. C. Hughes, secretary of the 
                        Vigo County
                     Historical Society and librarian of the Emmeline Fairbanks Memorial Library, 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            
               
                  Hon David Wallace
                  
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        
               
               
                  Noah Noble 
                  "
               
               
                  [Illegible]
                  "
               
               
                  John M. Moore
                  "
               
               
                  [Illegible] McGuire
                  "
               
               
                  [Illegible] B. Smith
                  
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Samuel W. Parker
                  "
               
               
                  J.[?] B. Johnson[?]
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
               
               
                  David Bun
                  Find [?I place
               
               
                  Hon. Henry Clay
                   
               
               
                  John I. Crittenden
                   
               
               
                  George D. Pruntes[?]
                  
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Theodore J. Barnett
                  
                            
                                N. Albany
                            
                        
               
               
                  Maj. Henry P. Thornton
                  "
               
               
                  Hon. Ch's. Dewey
                  Charleston
               
               
                  William Jones
                  
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Doct. A. B. McCrillen
                   
               
               
                  ——Fontleroy
                  
                            
                                New Harmony
                            
                        
               
               
                  I. B. Marshall
                  
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Doct. Wm. Kyle
                  
                            
                                Clinton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wm. P. Dole
                  "
               
               
                  J. W. Downing
                  "
               
               
                  John Porter
                  "
               
               
                  Maj. John T. Chun[n]
                  "
               
               
                  Ashley Harris
                  Highland
               
               
                  Dan'l. Wizziker
                  
                            
                                Toronto
                            
                        
               
               
                  Doct. W. H. H. Scott
                  
                            
                                Newport
                            
                        
               
               
                  Judge Tingle
                  "
               
               
                  John R. Porter
                  Eugene
               
               
                  J. & S. Collett
                  "
               
               
                  J. & S. Groenendyke
                  "
               
               
                  James Thompson & Co.
                  "
               
               
                  Asaph Hill
                  Perrysville
               
               
                  James Blair
                  "
               
               
                  Col. F. I. Evans
                  Covington
               
               
                  Col. Joseph Sloan
                  "
               
               
               
                  Wm. Crompton
                  Attica
               
               
                  Chauncy Scott
                  Rob Roy
               
               
                  Dan'l. Glascock
                  Chambersburg, Fountain co.
               
               
                  Doct. Othniel S. Clark
                  
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                        
               
               
                  Doct. E. Deming
                  "
               
               
                  Maj. Ambrose Whitlock
                  Crawflordsville
               
               
                  John Beard
                  "
               
               
                  James R. M. Bryant
                  "
               
               
                  Genl. Robt. M. Evans
                  
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Wm. B. Butler
                  "
               
               
                  Wm. T. Sullivan
                  "
               
               
                  Charles I. Battelle
                  "
               
               
                  Sam'l. Hall
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
               
               
                  Isaac Montgomery
                  "
               
               
                  Genl. John I. Neiley [?]
                  "
               
               
                  Gen. Wm. Daniel
                  "
               
               
                  Sam'l Emison & C
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
               
               
                  John Ewing
                  "
               
               
                  J. W. Briggs
                  
                            
                                Carlisle
                            
                        
               
               
                  James Reed
                  Merom
               
               
                  James H, O'Boyle
                  "
               
               
                  Genl. George K. Steel
                  Dixon's Mills
               
               
                  Wm. T. NoiI
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Col. Henry Slavens
                  "
               
               
                  Tyler S. Baldwin
                  "
               
               
                  McCampbell
                  "
               
               
                  Wm. S. Coffin
                  Annapolis
               
               
                  Irwin S. Sullivan
                  "
               
               
                  Col. John Burson
                  "
               
               
                  Col. Moses Bobbins
                  "
               
               
                  James Kerr
                  Gallatin
               
               
                  Foster [?I
                  
                            
                                Rockville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Judge McCord
                  "
               
               
                  Leander Mundel
                  
                            
                                Paris
                            
                        
               
               
                  G. B. Hillery [?I
                   
               
               
                  I. M. [illegible]
                  "
               
               
                  Wm. Cunningham
                  Paradise
               
               
                  Doct. B. Monroe
                  Charleston
               
               
                  W. F. Linden
                  "
               
               
                  John J. Brown
                  
                            
                                Danville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Doct. Wm. Fithian [?I
                  "
               
               
                  John H. Murphy
                  "
               
               
                  Geo. W. Cassady
                  "
               
               
                  Capt. Wm. Linn
                  Vandalia
               
               
                  Col. Hodge
                  "
               
               
                  John Hogan
                  Alton
               
               
               
                  Benj'n. I. Gilman
                  Alton
               
               
                  Genl. Joseph Duncan
                  
                            
                                Jacksonville
                            
                        
               
               
                  Oliver H. Smith
                   
               
               
                  Albert S. White
                   
               
               
                  James Rariden
                   
               
               
                  Henry S. Lame [Lane?]
                   
               
               
                  Gen. Jonathan M'Carty
                  Munc[ie]town, 
                                Delaware
                             Co.
               
               
                  Joseph G. Marshal
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
               
               
                  Joseph L. White
                   
               
               
                  Rich'd. W. Thompson
                   
               
               
                  John W. Payne
                  Coridon
               
               
                  Col. Danl. Seigler
                  
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                        
               
               
                  David Rudesil
                  "
               
               
                  Edw'd. McGaughey
                  "
               
               
                  John Cougill
                  "
               
               
                  Doct. T. W. Cougill
                  "
               
               
                  John C. Childs
                  "
               
               
                  Genl. Standiford
                  "
               
               
                  James Townsend
                  Putn[a]mvill[e]
               
               
                  John W. Osborn
                  Mt. Meridian
               
               
                  John M. Colman
                  Manhatton
               
               
                  John Osborn
                  Bowlingreen
               
               
                  Sam'l. Miller
                  "
               
               
                  Oliver Cromwell
                  "
               
               
                  Basil Champer
                  
                            
                                Spencer
                            
                        
               
               
                  James S. Freeman
                  Point Comm[erce]
               
               
                  J. M. S. Allison
                  
                            " "
                        
               
               
                  J. W. Wines & 
                                Martin
                             Wines
                  Linton
               
               
                  Joseph Warner
                  
                            
                                Washington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Sam'l. H. Smith
                  "
               
               
                  John B. Richardson
                  York
               
               
                  James Lockhart
                  Darwin
               
               
                  Joseph Shaw
                  "
               
               
                  Col. Wm. B. Archer
                  
                            
                                Marshall
                            
                        
               
               
                  Judge Justin Harlan
                  "
               
               
                  Lt. J. K. Grenough
                  "
               
               
                  Maj. Joseph Brown
                  Granview
               
               
                  James Hight
                  Heightsville
               
            
         
         
         
            Reviews
            
               George Croghan and the Westward Movement 1741–1782, by ALBERT T. VOLWILER. The Arthur H. Clark Company, 
                        Cleveland
                    , 1926. 370 pages.
            As its title indicates, this volume is an addition to the literature of the westward movement
                    centering around Pittsburg and involving the Old Northwest. The period is 1741 to 1782 with George
                    Croghan as the central character. It has been a favorite field for historians since Professor F. J.
                    Turner's work began at 
                        Wisconsin
                     over a quarter of a century ago. Among the many investigators one will easily recall
                    Consul Butterfield, Louise Kellogg, Clarence Carter, C. W. Alvord, C. M. Burton, A. B. Hulbert and
                    Frank H. Severance. A vast amount of documentary material makes it peculiarly attractive to those in
                    search of themes for doctoral dissertations. So rapidly has this field grown in historical
                    significance that Pittsburg has in a mild way come to be a rival of 
                        Boston
                    , 
                        Jamestown
                    , 
                        New York
                    , and 
                        Philadelphia
                     in colonial American history.
            The volume under consideration is not a biography in the Boswell strain but rather an economic
                    history of the time and locality of Croghan. The author gives us no clue whereby we might
                    distinguish his leading character from a cowboy, a college professor or an ordinary business man. 
                        Had Boone
                    , for instance, fared no better at the hands of his biographers, he would, perhaps, have
                    long ago disappeared from the front rank of western history. This can hardly be attributed to the
                    character, for Croghan is in a small class when it comes to romantic adventure, and in the mass of
                    documents which the author has examined there must be some material which would excite even the most
                    restrained imagination. Concerning scenic description the author has followed the same course. A
                    second reading has failed to leave any distinctive  place
                    impressions in the reviewer's mind. Once, only, when viewing the magnificent scenery from
                    South Mountain, does the author lower his guard for a sentence of poetry. Up the blue Juniata, down
                    the silvery 
                        Ohio
                    , over the Great Trail from Pittsburg to 
                        Detroit
                    , up the valley of the middle 
                        Wabash
                     he pursues his way with the same imperturbability. The explanation is no doubt to be
                    found in the restrictions imposed by the usual university seminar. This is not meant to be a
                    criticism on the work but rather a warning to those who would naturally expect a volume with such a
                    title to be full of romance—such as one finds in Parkman. Neither does the author indulge
                    in any considerable amount of denunciation. He occasionally betrays some impatience at the density
                    or sordidness of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Quakers or at the dullness of General Amherst, but in general he confines himself to a
                    plain statement of the facts.
            In brief it is a piece of historical scholarship, written in a plain unimaginative style for
                    historical scholars. From this, the proper standpoint, it is a worthy addition to the literature of
                    that period. The bibliography, notes, index, mechanical workmanship and proof reading of the volume
                    are beyond criticism.
            LOGAN ESAREY.
         
         
            
               John Slidell, by LOUIS MARTIN SEARS, Professor of History, Purdue University. Duke University Press, 
                        Durham
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , 1925. 252 pages. $2.50.
            This is a scholarly and dispassionate biography, not of a great statesman, but of a leader who played
                    an important part in the history of his period. Professor Sears has not made a hero of his subject,
                    but has revealed his weaknesses as well as his points of strength. A reading of this modest volume
                    convinces one that John Slidell was a man of such ability, character, and political influence as to
                    deserve a biography.
            Born in 
                        New York City
                     during the presidency of 
                        Washington
                    , Slidell spent most of his life in 
                        Louisiana
                    . Not much is known of his early years. The matters of chief interest in his public
                    career are his mission to 
                        Mexico
                    , his period in  the Senate of the 
                        United States
                    , and his service in 
                        France
                     during the Civil War as the representative of the Confederacy. He proved himself to be
                    an able and conscientious diplomat. That he failed to accomplish his purpose both in 
                        Mexico
                     and in 
                        France
                    , waa surely no fault of Slidell. He did not prove himself to be a great Senator. In his
                    period, he was a conservative and a strong 
                        Union
                     man. He proved his strength as a political leader by winning control of 
                        Louisiana
                     and by placing Buchanan in the presidency.
            When the breach came between Douglas and Buchanan in 1858, Slidell stood with the President. He
                    appeared in the 
                        Charlestown
                     convention of 1860 as the arch-foe of Douglas. Professor Sears, basing his conclusion
                    on the statements of Murat Halstead, thinks that Slidell wielded a political influence at this
                    crisis "which marked him as one of the great figures of the day." He adds:
                    "The man who divided his party in 1860, whatever his methods and motives, assumed no mean
                    responsibility for the vast consequences determined by that event." It is often asserted
                    that Douglas divided the party at this time, and, he must, of course, share the responsibility along
                    with Slidell and others. It is exceedingly easy, in the opinion of the reviewer, to attribute too
                    much in such crises to the influence of individual leaders. The great split of 1860 was due to a
                    tense situation which had developed in response to the influence of powerful factors long in
                    operation. The cleavage was present and the leaders merely took advantage of it.
            The most valuable portions of the biography, though perhaps they do not present the newest matter
                    contained in the volume, relate to the Mexican and French missions. In connection with the Mexican
                    mission, interesting light is thrown on the motives and policies of President Polk, and it is also
                    made clear that it was at this time that the strong and important friendship between Slidell and
                    Buchanan was formed.
            The story of the French mission is based on the letters of Slidell to James M. Mason, the
                    representative of the Confederacy in 
                        England
                    . It is an interesting narrative. A curious fact is that the author, who has followed
                    these letters very closely, reports absolutely nothing concerning the effects of  the issuance of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation
                    on the leaders of either 
                        England
                     or 
                        France
                    . Indeed, Professor Sears does not mention the Proclamation in his volume. Can it be
                    that American historians have greatly exaggerated the effects of this policy of 
                        Lincoln
                     in preventing the recognition of the Confederacy by the governments of 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                    ?
            This biography of Slidell should find a wide circle of readers. It is based on extensive research,
                    but this does not detract from its interest. Surely those who find time to read history and
                    biography will enjoy the reading of this little volume, for, though it is not from the pen of a
                    popular writer of the journalistic school, it is well written.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               The Environment of Abraham Lincoln in Indiana, with an Account of the DeBruler
                    Family, by JOHN E. IGLEHART and EUGENIA EHRMANN. Indiana Historical Society Publications, Volume VIII,
                    Number 3, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1925. 40 pages.
            Number 3, Volume 8 of the Indiana Historical Society Publications contains three
                    papers, the ones on the "Environment of 
                        Abraham Lincoln
                     in Indiana" and "The DeBruler Family as Typical Pioneers"
                    being written by Judge John E. Iglehart, president of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society.
                    The brief paper on "Judge Lemuel Quincey DeBruler" by Eugenia Ehrmann traces the
                    DeBruler family from 
                        Maryland
                     through 
                        North Carolina
                     to Indiana where they arrived in 1818. Judge DeBruler, who served as judge of the
                    common pleas court of the district embracing 
                        Spencer county
                     from 1852 to 1860, was one of the leading lawyers of western Indiana and during the
                    Civil War was a 
                        Union
                     man and personally acquainted with President Lincoln. Judge Iglehart in his paper on
                    the environment of 
                        Lincoln
                     discourses upon the frontier and its importance in 
                        American
                     history, the character and influence of the pioneers and then indicates the influence
                    which the typical neighbors of 
                        Lincoln
                     during the formative years of his life in Indiana must have had upon the  man. A number of men more or less prominent in social life and politics
                    in southwestern Indiana are mentioned and brief sketches of their life and works given, but in most
                    cases it is impossible to point out any immediate connection between these men and 
                        Abraham Lincoln
                    . Movements of trade, family and persons in and out of 
                        Spencer county
                     are noted. The unity of the article is broken by frequent references to the work done
                    by others in collecting biographical material on the neighbors of the 
                        Lincoln
                     family in Indiana and by editorial approbations of the same. There are practically no
                    references to source material or documents in the paper.
         
         
            
               Early Navigation on the St. Joseph River
               , by OTTO M. KNOBLOCK. Indiana Historical Society Publication, Volume VIII, Number 4. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1925. 18 pages.
            Early Navigation on the St. Joseph River by Otto M. Knoblock is published as No.
                    4, Vol. 8 of Indiana Historical Society Publications. This paper was delivered as
                    the annual address before the Indiana Historical Society and the Society of Indiana Pioneers at 
                        South Bend
                     August, 1925. Part of the material had previously appeared in 1895. The importance of
                    the 
                        St. Joseph
                    -Kankakee portage to the Indians, explorers, and fur traders is pointed out, and the
                    development of boating from 1831 to the end of the century is discussed with some detail. The type
                    of boats, details of construction, names of builders and early navigators, and particularly the
                    technic of poling the boats up stream are described. First hand information on these subjects was
                    furnished the author in 1895 by Mr. Lee P. Johnson, son of Peter Johnson, the first 
                        South Bend
                     boat builder. As a boy of fifteen Mr. Johnson had taken a trip to the lake and some of
                    the incidents connected with this trip impressed him sufficiently to be remembered sixty-four years
                    later. A list of the names of the keel boats which operated in the carrying of trade after 1831 is
                    contained in the pamphlet. The decline of the river trade due to the competition of the railroad
                    after 1852, and its degeneration into excursion service is brought out. The author seems to have
                    relied quite largely upon the recollections  of men well along
                    in years and his references to source material are restricted because of this. A small map of the
                    corner of Indiana accompanies the paper.
         
         
            
               History of Catholic Education in Indium, a Survey of the Schools
                    1702–1925, by SISTER M. SALESIA GODECKER, O. B. S. Copyright 1926 by the Sisters of St. Benedict, Ferdinand, Indiana. 80
                    pages.
            This painstaking and convenient pamphlet, after a short description of the geographic and
                    ethnological background, gives a sketch of Catholic education in Indiana from 1702 to 1834, an
                    account of the schools in the 
                        Vincennes
                    -
                        Indianapolis
                     diocese 1834–1925 and in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     diocese 1857–1925, and a survey of the "Present status of Catholic
                    education in Indiana." A very useful appendix contains a list of elementary parish schools
                    in the state with their location, name, date of foundation, community in charge and attendance
                    according to the 1925 Official Catholic Directory. There is also a bibliography.
            The statement that priests ministered at "
                        Port Vincennes
                    " as early as 1702 (page 15), though often made, seems to be in conflict with
                    the authoritative account of Sieur de 
                        Vincennes
                     compiled some years ago by Pierre-Georges Roy for the Indiana Historical Society Publications and the results of the protracted studies of the late Jacob P. Dunn.
                    If documentary evidence of the existence of "
                        Port Vincennes
                    " before 1732 exists it ought to be given wider publicity than it has yet
                    obtained.
         
         
            INFORMATION REQUESTED.
            John W. Cravens, secretary of Indiana University, is preparing an article on the Trustees of the
                    University. Due to the fires of 1854 and 1883 much of the historical material was destroyed. Mr.
                    Cravens would like to have information concerning 
                        Franklin
                     Sawyer who was a member of the board in 1840. Can any one give the name of the county
                    in which Mr. Sawyer lived and furnish a brief biographical sketch?
         
      
   
