
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 19, Issue 4, pages 305-400. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:19+issue:4+year:1923&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            My Childhood and Youth in the Early Days of Indiana
            By G. W. H. KEMPER, M. D., 
                        Muncie
                    
            
            Historian of Indiana State Medical Association
            I was born in Richland township, Rush county, Indiana, December 16, 1839. I was the tenth child in a
                    family of eleven children, four sons and seven daughters. A daughter and a son died in their youth.
                    My parents removed from Garrard county, 
                        Kentucky
                    , to Rush county, in October, 1834. Eight children of the family were born in Kentucky
                    and three in Indiana. Seven children came with my parents to this state, and one, a sister, was left
                    in a churchyard at the former home.
            If, by any means, I could have been given a choice of time and place for my birth, I would now have
                    no reason to change either. I have lived in a wonderful period of the world's his-story.
                    The memory of my past life is very dear to me.
            My father was an ardent Whig, and named me for General William Harrison. The nickname
                    "Tip," clung to me nearly as long as it did to the distinguished President.
            I distinctly remember that in 1844, when a Democratic delegation passed our home going to 
                        Rushville
                    , that my father stationed me on a large gate post near the roadside with a flag which I
                    was instructed to wave as I shouted for Henry 
                        Clay
                    . I often wondered why my father named me for Harrison, who was not a candidate for a
                    second time until 1840, but it is a fact that Harrison was nominated at 
                        Harrisburg
                    ,  Pa., in December, 1839, the only instance when a
                    candidate for president was nominated the year preceding the election. Since the telegraph at that
                    time was not in successful operation, my father must have learned by the newspapers of his
                    selection, in time to name me for him.
            The country boy is to be congratulated. He is in touch with nature, and removed from the temptations
                    and artificial life of the city. Eighty-three years ago the average Indiana country home was a quiet
                    and charming retreat and its primitive surroundings were calculated to impress and mould the minds
                    of the children who were reared amid such simple and inspiring influences. Nervous prostration was
                    unknown in those homes.
            It was the good fortune of the author first to see the light in one of these homes. The house was a
                    plain frame building by the side of a country road, about half a mile from the junction of Rush and 
                        Decatur counties
                    , and one mile north of 
                        Clarksburg
                     in 
                        Decatur county
                    . At the date indicated, and for some years afterward the present village of Richland
                    was known as Palmyra. In time this ancient name gave place to the present modern name. Generally,
                    those who passed our home were on horseback or in farm wagons, rarely in buggies. Around this home I
                    saw the green grass, meadows, cornfields, wheatfields, and other crops common to farm life. I saw
                    shade trees in the dooryard, a nearby orchard, and in every direction large forest trees, in fact,
                    among my early associates were giant forest trees. Much of the land was "cleared"
                    and yet the standing timber was so abundant that only one or two homes of neighbors were visible.
            An open well supplied an abundance of cool water drawn in a "moss covered bucket"
                    with the aid of an old time well sweep. Near the house were flower beds decorated with roses,
                    marigolds, hollyhocks, pinks, black-eyed Susans, and other varieties of old-fashioned flowers. Along
                    the highways the dogfennel grew without the least encouragement, and some pessimistic farmers even
                    predicted that this wretched weed would eventually "take the country."
            Inside the house were beds, bureaus, chests, and other articles of primitive furniture. Beneath the
                    bed occupied by  my parents was the usual trundle-bed. During
                    the day this was pushed to its place, and at night it was drawn from its retreat, and upon it in
                    early infancy I passed my sleeping hours. If I chanced to roll out of bed I sustained but trifling
                    injuries. A garret so low that adult persons must stoop at the highest point, and rafters like hands
                    in prayer, "or the lifting up of hands at the evening sacrifice," were slanting
                    upward on either side from floor to the cone, the full length of the house.
            This home cathedral was a favorite resort for play in the day time, and as I grew in years for
                    slumber at night. Often have I been lulled to sleep by the rain pattering upon the shingles only a
                    few inches above my head. In later life, when cares and responsibilities have banished repose, how
                    often have I longed for the quiet sleep of that old garret.
            Donald G. Mitchell, in his beautiful word pictures in "Dream Life" speaking of the
                    protecting power of the garret roof says: 
                        Under the rooftree of his home the boy feels safe,
                     and then he propounds the question without giving an answer: 
                        Where in the whole realm of life with its bitter toil and its bitterer temptations, will he
                            feel safe again? 
                                To supper at last the farmer goes,
                                The apples are pared, the paper read,
                                The stories told, then all to bed.
                                Without the crickets ceasless song
                                Makes shrill the silence all night long.
                            
                  
                    
            
            The rooms of our home were ceiled without any plastering. The walls were nearly bare; the era of
                    chromos had not appeared. There were three cheap pictures, (they cost one dollar a-piece in those
                    days; could be purchased now for ten cents,) George 
                        Washington
                    , Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    , and Henry Clay hung in conspicuous places. So rare were pictures in those days that I
                    can recall my childish delight when I became the possessor of a small colored picture showing the
                    face of a woman. It was wrapped around a cake of shaving soap that my father had purchased. There
                    were three large fireplaces in the home, sitting room, parlor, and kitchen.
            
            A facetious statement appeared recently in a country paper, that we now rise with alarm clocks, when
                    we used to waken when we heard mother pounding the beefsteak with a saucer. My father was an early
                    riser, and soon the entire family was astir. In the winter season, when I awoke in the early
                    morning, I saw an immense wood fire roaring and crackling like a huge bonfire. I would seize my
                    clothes and hurry to this cheerful fireside, that seemed to say "good morning," in
                    order to complete my toilet, and while dressing was compelled to keep turning around like a
                    Mohammedan dervish in order to distribute over my body the excessive heat. 
                        Sit with me by the homestead hearth
                        And stretch the hands of memory forth
                        To warm them at the wood-fire's blaze!
                        WHITTIER
                    
            
            At this early day, the cooking stove was a stranger to our home. The cooking was done on the hearth
                    of the kitchen fireplace. I have seen my mother and older sisters bake bread before a bright
                    "reflector," a large curved surface of bright tin placed before a hot fire.
                    Usually bread was baked in ovens on the hearth while coals of fire were placed beneath and heaped
                    upon the top of it. I never saw baker's bread until after I was twelve years of age. Meats,
                    vegetables, and other articles of food were cooked in skillets and pots arranged over the fire. I
                    have no remmbrance of a meal in my father's home when cornbread was not served. Oh, the
                    memory of those delicious corn pone loaves! Hot from the oven, they were toothsome. At
                    "butchering time" these pones were given an extra touch of flavor by interspersing
                    a few "cracklings" among them, much like the government scatters red and blue
                    threads through its bright paper currency. In the course of a few years a cooking stove was duly
                    installed in our kitchen and soon became one of the home delights.
            We never patronized a city meat shop; our "smokehouse" was an ample larder and
                    supplied bacon, lard, beef, etc., from the farm. Chickens and turkeys, like Topsy "just
                    growed," and were abundant. High price of living was not then a fanciful conception, and
                    had anyone ventured an opinion that per-  sons were then living
                    who would see chickens sell at two dollars a-piece, he would have been laughed to scorn.
            Hominy was home-made, the corn was crushed in a large improvised wooden mortar.
            The rooms were lighted by the aid of the open fire, and tallow dips, a rag immersed in melted lard or
                    tallow in a small open dish. Later, my mother would use candle wick; fastening the two ends to a
                    stretcher she would pour melted tallow over the wick. From time to time the melted tallow was poured
                    over the growing candle until it grew to the desired size. Finally a new revelation appeared in the
                    neighborhood, a candle mold that would make three candles at one filling! A little later a mold that
                    would produce six candles, and then twelve, appeared, when it seemed that the high tide in lighting
                    had come to our home. The candles were lit as darkness supervened. The assembling of public
                    gatherings was announced or advertised at early or late candle lighting. "At early candle
                    lighting" was a stereotyped phrase for the beginning of church services. A pair of snuffers
                    was a complement to the candlestick
            At the period named, it was proper to carry food to the mouth upon the knife, if the cutting edge was
                    turned from the lips. We innocently ate pie with knife and fork, like Henry Ward Beecher,
                    "were no more afraid of cutting our throats with a knife than we were of poking out our
                    eyes with a fork." Tea and coffee were poured from the cup into the saucer and drank from
                    that dish. The cup rested in a little "tea plate" same as the dish of the present
                    day in some families for serving butter.
            Oh, the pleasures of memory! More than three-quarters of a century have elapsed since I first saw the
                    light in that old home. All the buildings have been razed, and new ones erected in their places, but
                    I still make occasional pilgrimages to the farm now owned by strangers, where once every object was
                    so familiar and dear to my boyish gaze. 
                        O, I love the world I have entered in, For the world is passing sweet,
                        But I miss the world I used to know, The world that is under my feet.
                        JAMES G. GABLE
                    
            
            
            The pioneer people took time for the common amenities of every-day life. People drove slowly and
                    cautiously, and neighbors had time to stop and chat when they met on the highways; strangers were
                    saluted. Few carried watches, and sun time was fast enough; men could look at the sun and
                    approximate the time for all necessary purposes. Standard time was a long way off. It was when
                        
                        The woods were lit up by great burning logs, And acorns rained down to fatten the hogs, When
                            log-rollings, raisings and quiltings were rife, When many a Jehu courted his wife. When
                            folks ‘went to meetin’ in a wagon or cart, And log school houses were
                            miles apart; When boys went to mill on the old gray mare And waited for hours for their
                            ‘grinding’ there.
                        JOHN S. ELLIS
                    
            
            If sickness came into the neighborhood, the sick were not neglected and by turns the farmers or their
                    wives served as nurse night after night. Nor, were the sick alone remembered; visits were
                    interchanged between the well. Often my father and mother, mounted on horses would ride to a
                    neighbor's home two or three miles distant, and spend the entire day. It was generally my
                    privilege to accompany them, riding behind my mother. These were genuine social visits, and not
                    fashionable calls, and were returned in the same manner. Sometimes the horses were hitched to the
                    farm wagon, and this supplied with chairs furnished a conveyance for other members of the family. In
                    this manner we often went to church, or on a more pretentious visit.
            There were no regular undertakers in our neighborhood. When a person died, a messenger was
                    immediately dispatched, with measurments, to a cabinet-maker who proceeded to make a coffin from
                    walnut lumber. At the funeral the neighbors came with wagons, carriages, and on horseback to
                    accompany the bereaved friends to the cemetery. The corpse was conveyed in a farm wagon. Some person
                    who was handy on such occasions conducted the burial movements. All tarried until the grave was
                    filled, and a clergyman pronounced the benediction. Little acts of kindness did not terminate when
                    the body was laid away, but the family was remembered.
            
            My father died August 31, 1849, and he was buried two days later in a village cemetery one mile
                    distant. His coffin was made of walnut lumber, without covering or handles. It was conveyed to the
                    cemetery in our farm wagon, driven by a neighbor, Mr. John Lowry. I rode to the cemetery in this
                    wagon sitting by the side of my father's coffin. Friends dug the grave, as there was no
                    regular sexton. I presume the funeral expenses all told, were much less than twenty dollars.
            It was the first open grave I had ever seen. The coffin containing the body of my father was lowered
                    into the earth, and I heard the hollow sound as the clods covered it from my sight. We had been
                    inseparable companions, and I was to see his form no more. I was to go through life deprived even of
                    a picture of his face, as he never had one taken.
            The daguerreotype had just appeared, and ambrotypes and photographs were unknown in our neighborhood.
                    So clear is my memory of his features that if he were to rise from the dead before me, after narly
                    seventy-five years, I believe I would recognize him. The sorrows of childhood do not heal by the
                    first intention, but time closes the wounds, and the scars gradually grow dim!
            I found new companions in the company of my mother and a younger sister. My mother was a priestess in
                    her family. She was a devoted parent and every one of her children found a home in the church.
            My father, being a Kentuckian, "was given to hospitality." No person came to our
                    home near a meal hour that was not invited and urged to take a place at our table. It was a stopping
                    place for ministers of every denomination. He, as well as his horse, was fed. If the evening shades
                    were gathering, the prophet's "little chamber, bed, table, stool and
                    candlestick" were provided. I remember the visits of Rev. James Havens, and other pioneer
                    ministers at our home.
            How quickly are the names of early pioneers forgotten, and yet there were noble men and women who
                    lived in former days and performed acts of courage and mercy that would entitle them to a Carnegie
                    medal at this day. They lived, loved, and suffered hardships in clearing up forests, making
                    highways, building schoolhouses and churches for coming generations.  We cannot praise them too much. Their deeds are unrecorded, their
                    names, often, not mentioned, and they sleep in unmarked graves. A large majority of them might be
                    classified as "unnoticed lives." There have been saints who never were cannonized;
                    and heroes who never were laurel crowned.
            There were no daily papers circulating in our region in those days. In fact, I am not sure that a
                    daily paper was seen in our neighborhood in the forties. The first weekly in Indiana, was the Indiana Gazette, established at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1804. It subsequently became the Sun. As a compensation, it was
                    common for neighbors to spend evenings together and talk over the news and common gossip of the day.
                    Usually there was some one in the neighborhood who could help to enliven the occasion by playing
                    upon the violin. I have heard, many times, the invitation, "Come over some evening soon,
                    and bring your fiddle with you." The music was not rendered by note, but rather by ear, and
                    the commonest ragtime variety. However, it served a purpose. Th first melodeon that came into the
                    neighborhood was an object of much interest.
            There were good conversationalists in those times. There was no censorship on subjects, and the
                    theme, often, was discussed in a startling manner. I can remember, although I was not quite four
                    years old, how my childish fears were greatly exercised by the great comet. of 1843. Many were
                    living at that time who had seen the "stars fall" in 1833, and could tell stories
                    that would make sensations up and down the spine. This was known as the "Comet of
                    1843" and also the "Great Comet." It appeared suddenly, unheralded, in
                    the northern heavens and occasioned much anxiety throughout the country. It was of immense size, and
                    many feared that it might strike the earth and cause dire calamities. Well, it might with its 
                        Ten millions cubic miles of head, Ten billions leagues of tail.
                    
            
            Ghosts were discussed pro and con in a most exciting manner, often calculated to make my young blood
                    run cold. While  I never chanced to meet one, the subject was
                    often on my mind, for as Doctor Johnson said: 
                        Nobody believes in ghosts but everybody fears them.
                    
            
            In 1848, the Fox Sisters of Hydesville, 
                        New York
                    , suddenly started the agitation concerning "spirit rappings." This
                    opened up a new field for excitement in many homes, and led to a diligent search for
                    "mediums." For a time it seemed that the dead would appear, bringing
                    "Airs from heaven or blasts from hell," as arguments waxed warm in regard to the
                    source from which these mysterious manifestations came. A few believed; more doubted. Dr. Holland
                    said of Longfellow's "Excelsior," that "it sounded like the
                    truth, but it was a lie," and so it was with this transient hoax.
            The proper time for planting corn was a practical question for evening debates. It was generally
                    understood that the ground should be properly prepared, and as soon as the oak leaves were as large
                    as squirrel's ears, or dog wood blossoms were fully expanded that corn should be in the
                    ground. Growing crops were watched, and as at the present day the pessimist was abroad in the land.
            As weather reports had not been anticipated in those days, men learned to "discern the face
                    of the sky," and so there were weather prophets in every neighborhood, who were supposed
                    with some degree of certainty to foretell the condition of the weather the next day. The advice of
                    these "Wiseacres" was sought- when the sky looked threatening, and the meadow was
                    to be attacked.
            The Mexican war came in for its share of military criticism. Whigs were disposed to regard it as an
                    unjustifiable war, while Democrats were sure that it was. These, and many other topics were
                    considered and discussed at the pioneer home firesides during the long winter evenings. Politics,
                    education, books, religion, etc., were practical matters at all times, and often the greatest zeal
                    was manifested. Many of these little things mentioned, are little only in name. They are full of
                    rich meaning. They illustrate classes of men and ages of time.
            
            In those days the churches were wont to attack the doctrines of each other, and public debates were
                    common. Men and women would go miles, and spend days in order to hear champions argue disputed
                    creeds. Persons came back with their opinions unchanged. Modes of baptism was a favorite theme. A
                    few years ago I saw in a second-hand book store an old volume which I purchased as a curiosity; it
                    is the report of a debate on baptism, etc., by Rev. Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , and Rev. N. L. Rice. It was held in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , during
                    eighteen days of November and December, 1843. The book contains 912 pages, octavo, of small type.
                    These good men have been in Heaven many years, and now, doubtless, are as little disturbed about the
                    mode of baptism as they are whether passengers travel to 
                        Washington
                     over the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                    , or the Pennsylvania lines!
            It was many years before Christians learned the lesson that spiritual ammunition should be used
                    against the world, and not the church. Such was the prejudice and bias of those days that as a
                    child, I thought the Methodists would certainly have a monopoly in the heavenly kingdom. There were
                    great divines in all churches in those days, men who could by sermons "awaken
                    sinners," and confirm the faithful believers; but too often the churches were seclusive, a
                    marked contrast with the present day when frequently the churches of every denomination are united
                    in one common work, forgetting the non-essentials. I think one of the greatest influences for the
                    unity and good feeling of the churches of the present day is the leavening movement of the work of
                    laymen, men and women, the power of the common people, so different from the clerical bigotry of
                    former days.
            The people were temperate and God fearing in my neighborhood. I never saw a saloon until I was
                    sixteen years old, and I seldom saw an intoxicated man. As in the day of the Judges: 
                        Every man did that which was right in his own eyes
                     in regard to liquor in his home. It takes the American saloon to blight the conscience of
                    any community.
            Those were wonderful days in which to live. Folks got religion at the old time camp-meetings and
                    lived godly lives.  Men lived with one wife, and seldom ran away
                    with another woman. When a man and a woman got married it meant that they were husband and wife
                    until death dissolved the union. A divorce was a neighborhood gossip and a family scandal. Persons
                    were content to endure their present ills rather than "fly to those they knew not
                    of" and rarely committed suicide. The simple life was lived with no inclination to risk
                    wild speculation, and one asylum of moderate dimensions was sufficient to hold all the insane in the
                    state. Now we have in Indiana five large public and numerous private institutions, all crowded with
                    lunatics, while doctors and humanitarians are pleading for more room and money. There are crazy
                    people in our jails awaiting their turn to be admitted into a madhouse. And yet, with our
                    present-day turmoil, and a promiscuous and indiscriminate scramble toward hades, we are told that
                    the world is actually growing better!
            The small boy on the farm was a valuable asset. I gathered eggs from the haymows and hidden nests,
                    carried drinking water for those who toiled in the fields, took my turn at the dasher of the upright
                    churn, and watched anxiously for the forming specks of butter, carried in stove wood, helped to
                    carry in sugar water at the camp, where, as our sweet "Hoosier Poetess," Louisa
                    Chitwood said: 
                        When the fire flashed bright 'Neath the kettle at night, Lighting the
                            woods with a crimson light, And the circling eddies of golden foam Were sweet and rich as
                            the honey comb.
                    
            
            I helped to catch the geese for my mother and others to pick, and assisted in washing the wool at the
                    sheep shearing season. However, it was not all work. In the fall season I laid in a full supply of
                    hickory nuts, walnuts, and chinquapin acorns. When quite a small boy, I often went to mill on a sack
                    of shelled corn thrown across the back of an old family mare, and brought back the products, less
                    the toll of corn meal. In time, I enjoyed the exciting sport of coon hunting  with my older brothers. Possibly those who were disturbed in their
                    sleep thought differently, as expressed in Riley's lines: 
                        Neighborhood made some complaints ‘Bout them plague-gone hounds at
                            night Howlin’ fit to wake the saints Clean from dusk tel plum daylight!
                    
            
            It was a great privilege to go barefooted in summer time; the only drawback was the necessary foot
                    washing at bedtime when drowsiness was a hindrance. I believe the feet of children acquire a more
                    natural growth by this training. I have no personal experience with corns. I have gone to the meadow
                    in the early frosty morning to drive the cows home for milking, and find my feet so cold that I
                    would start the cows homeward, and then linger to warm my feet on the warm grass where the animals
                    had lain.
            I have often watched my mother in her chemical experiments for manufacturing soft soap. With all our
                    improvements of the present day we have no soaps that clean better than the old time soft soap. In
                    fact, more of the soft soap and religion of our mothers' would go far toward improving the
                    present world!
            In the forties, transportation was limited in this state. Really, we were not much in advance of the
                    days of Homer, when they depended upon "hoof and sail." My father hauled his
                    produce to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , about one hundred miles, and exchanged it for groceries. The first railroad in the
                    state, from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was not constructed until the year 1844. When the Whitewater canal was completed as
                    far as Metamora and 
                        Laurel
                    , it seemed as though little more in the way of markets would be desired. These towns
                    were only twelve miles from our farm, and at once became trading points. 
                        Laurel
                     had a woolen mill and exchanged woolen goods for our raw wool. I remember my
                    astonishment when I saw a canal boat for the first time. But the canal was evanescent, and in due
                    time was supplanted by more rapid transportation. 
                        The Whitewater canal was turned over in 1842 to a company organized to complete it. It was
                            finished to 
                                Brookville
                             in 1843, to 
                                Connersville
                             in 1845, and to 
                                Cambridge City
                             in 1846. The valley was too steep, and it was found impossible to hold the
                            canal. A flood in 1847  did $100,000 damage,
                            and the repairs for a single flood in the next year cost $80,000. The Whitewater
                            Valley railroad paralleled it in 1865, and forever put it out of business.—Esarey's History of Indiana.
                  
                    
            
            I have a distinct recollection of the visits of Dr. Bell, an old time physician, to my
                    father's home. His saddle-bag and bottles were quite a novelty to me. With a little spatula
                    he would remove from different bottles powders and mix these together, and then divide the mass into
                    as many doses as he desired. Sometimes he gave medicine in pill form, and occasionally in fluids.
                    Sometimes roots and barks were made into infusions and decoctions. Domestic remedies played a
                    prominent part in the early days. I have accompanied by father to the woods in the early fall and
                    helped to collect boneset for use in autumnal fevers. This was cut near the ground, tied in bunches,
                    and these hung to rafters in the garret. When occasion seemed to require, a tea was prepared from
                    this dried plant for the patient who was required to drink more or less of this Bitter decoction.
                    Oh, the memories of childhood days when I fairly wrestled with boneset tea, and "pink and
                    senna!" Lobelia was often resorted to by the laity as an emetic. Before the days of
                    anesthetics which were unknown prior to 1846, an emetic of lobelia was occasionally administered to
                    patients who had suffered a dislocation, in order to relax the muscles and aid in reduction.
            Venesection, or bleeding from the arm was a common procedure three-quarters of a century ago. Doctors
                    believed in it and the people as well. Possibly no remedy was more popular in its day than
                    "bleeding." So popular was venesection among the masses in those days that had one
                    of the political parties declared in its platform for this remedy it would have served a good
                    purpose in augmenting the vote. Many of the laymen were provided with lancets, and in the absence of
                    the doctor, used them freely when in their judgment occasion seemed to demand. Patients with fever
                    and other diseases were universally bled. Persons were bled for unconsciousness after accidents, and
                    it was the popular remedy for old or young when seized with a fit of any description.
            On a Sunday in the early forties, a number of neighbors met incidentally at my father's
                    home. Among these was an  older married sister whose young son
                    had failed to grow normally. Mr. Hite, a justice of the peace, one of the learned men of the
                    community, was present and suggested that the child should be treated by passing it through an
                    artificial opening in a tree. This was a common procedure at that period for a supposed disease
                    known to the laity as the "short growth." As there was no objection "to
                    healing on the Sabbath day," an opening was soon made through one of the locust trees in
                    our door yard, and the child was passed through the fissure. I well remember my astonishment at the
                    sight of this charmed therapeutic agent as I daily passed it for many years afterward. The boy lived
                    to be eleven years old, and died of dysentery during the severe epidemic of this disease, which
                    prevailed in southeastern Indiana, in the fall of 1851.
            In eruptive fevers, especially measles, where the eruption was delayed, a tea made of
                    sheep's dung, popularly known as "nanny tea," was a household remedy.
                    Numerous persons could attest the efficacy of this vaunted specific. Apparently, "they had
                    tried it on the dog." There are younger physicians than I, who have been called to see
                    patients where a hand or a foot was poulticed in fresh cow's dung! Possibly, more than one
                    person at the present day had observed a pan of water under the bed of a patient for the purpose of
                    checking night sweats.
            Charm doctors were patronized and received fees in the early days, especially if they showed a
                    pedigree of a seventh son; and similar fakes dressed in different uniforms exist at the present day.
                    There are as many quacks, and vaunted remedies at this day as there were in pioneer days.
                    Notwithstanding our public schools and colleges people are just as gullible as formerly. They even
                    buy gold bricks at the present time!
            Many persons believe implicitly in the effects of the light, and the dark of the moon. Hogs must be
                    slaughtered at certain times or else the bacon would shrink Even a worm fence was under the
                    influence of the moon. It was an unfortunate affair with some to see the new moon through an
                    obstructed vision. As a physician, I have often been asked as to the  proper sign of the zodiac in which to wean babies. I believe the
                    knowing ones say when it is in the thighs. There is an English belief that death is more common with
                    the flow of the tide. So Dickens in the popular feeling, makes Mr. Barkis go out with the waves into
                    the great ocean of death.
            The madstone, an aluminous shale, or sometimes a small bone from the heart of a wild deer, was deemed
                    valuable as a remedy for hydrophobia, snake-poison, and certain septic affections. Many people
                    formerly set great store by this worthless fraud. Quite recently a man called at my office and
                    offered to sell me a mad-stone at a fabulous price. There were a select few who could "blow
                    the fire" out of persons who had suffered burns, and others who could arrest hemorrhage,
                    even at a distance, by uttering certain cabalistic words. It was not an uncommon circumstance to see
                    persons with a forked peach tree twig, held by both hands, parading over a spot of ground in order
                    to locate the site for a well of water. It was always proper to send some member of the household to
                    make the dog stop its howling, and thus avert a death in the family. Many can remember when it was a
                    common affair to see the horseshoe posted in some conspicuous place about the house. How many people
                    believe that wedding rings rubbed on the eye will cure styes? That a copper wire around the waist,
                    or a buckeye carried in the pocket prevents rheumatism? That -red flannel (must be red) is good for
                    sore throats! That malaria is due to night air? These, and a hundred other equally as foolish
                    notions are current at the present day.
            Education is not always a preventive of superstition, nor does it necessarily result in moral or
                    religious growth. A few years ago, one of the supreme judges of the state of 
                        New York
                     made himself ridiculous by reasons of his superstitious credence. Possibly as a
                    survival of the fittest specimen of superstition is the dread of many educated people of the present
                    day as they approach the small sized banquet table, until a careful count shows less or more than
                    thirteen persons!
            At the age of six years, I was started to school. This was before the day of our existing public
                    school system. The foundation of our present free school method was established in 1862, based on
                    the provisions of our new constitution of  the state of Indiana.
                    The schools I first attended were known as "Subscription Schools." Patrons of; the
                    school would "sign" one or more scholars, the signing being a pledge for the
                    particular number and payment was required, whether the pupil attended or remained at home. In some
                    instances, the patron would sign one scholar, and send others, and in such cases the scholars not
                    pledged, were charged with their total attendance. In order to keep the accounts correctly the roll
                    was called at the close of each days session, and the scholars were marked present or absent.
            The nearest schoolhouse was one mile distant. The path to reach it led through fields and a woodland.
                    My companions were an older brother, during the winter, and sisters both winter and summer. We
                    climbed over a number of fences, passed through fields, and crossed one or two brooks. Through the
                    dense woods my father had blazed the trees, in order that we might not stray from the path. The
                    blazing of the trees consisted in chipping off a piece of the bark on two sides of the trees, so
                    that these denudations could be seen going or coming. In time, this footpath became so well known
                    that every object along its way became familiar; morning and evening stumps and trees appeared like
                    old acquaintances.
            At the present day when I see school children trudging along the busy, dusty streets of our cities,
                    nervously listening for the tardy bell, I think of the many lessons in nature they fail to read for
                    want of country walks. I sympathize with the boy or girl who never went to a country school;
                    likewise those at the present day who ride to country schools in wagons. What a wonderful variety of
                    object lessons we saw along that little path. It was a living, moving, and growing kindergarten of
                    animals and trees. Froebel never created its equal! The daily walk was a drill for me, a
                    "preparedness." In a few short years from that time I was dressed in a natty blue
                    uniform and marching in the southland.
            The schoolhouse, consisting of one room, was about thirty by sixty feet in size. It was constructed
                    of logs hewn on two sides, and the chinks were filled with sticks and mortar; the roof was covered
                    with shingles.
            There was no belfry nor bell. A bell was not necessary; the children were always on time unless they
                    remained at  home an hour or two to help mother with the
                    washing. This was a sufficient excuse in those days. In many homes at the present day,
                    clothes-washing is one of the lost arts.
            The log schoolhouse has given way to more pretentious buildings. Many persons residing in Indiana
                    never saw a log schoolhouse. In 1863 there were 1350 log schoolhouses in Indiana; in 1902 there were
                    three. Recently, Mr. Sam. Scott, county superintendent of Clark county wrote me: 
                        We have two log schoolhouses in Clark county. However, both have been "weather
                            boarded over" so that the logs do not show. One in Oregon township used by white
                            children, the other in 
                                Charlestown
                             township used by the colored children.
                    
            
            I recall distinctly my first day at school, also my amazement at the surroundings of this wonderful
                    schoolroom. I had seen fireplaces of the usual size in my own home, but in the north end of this
                    room, I saw one of immense proportions, possibly seven feet across. In the winter time, here a great
                    fire was fed with wood brought in by the big boys, until it shot forth flames, and roared like a
                    veritable furnace of Moloch in the valley of Tophet! The next object that drew my attention was a
                    large heating stove in the center of the room. It was the first heating stove I had ever seen, and
                    its size impressed me with all the wonder that is recorded of the young frog in the fable, that saw
                    the cow grazing in the meadow.
            The seats were rough, and the backs consisted of a single narrow transverse strip, however,
                    ordinarily, we were not crowded. Thoreau said he would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it all to
                    himself, than to be crowded on a velvet cushion. I had plenty of room on the seat, and still more
                    beneath, for, like Noah's dove, I found "no rest for the sole of my
                    foot."
            The usual branches taught at that period were reading, writing, arithmetic, and grammar. The
                    textbooks in use were Webster's spelling book, McGuffey's series of readers,
                    Talbott's arithmetic, and Kirkham's grammar. Recently in reading Miss
                    Tarbell's life of 
                        Lincoln
                    , I notice that she gives praise to Kirkham's grammar as the source for 
                        Lincoln
                    's training in the English language. Few persons at the present day are
                    acquainted with this standard book. It is many years  since we
                    parted and yet, somewhere in my brain cells I carry one of its lessons: 
                        Language in its most extensive sense implies those signs by which men and brutes communicate
                            to each other their thoughts, affections, and desires.
                    
            
            Considerable attention was given to spelling. When we remember that the schools were not
                    systematically graded, we are surprised that teachers found time to instruct so many pupils.
            Finally, my time came and I went to the teacher to "say my lesson." I had been
                    provided with a brand-new book, Noah Webster's Elementary Spelling Book, in blue paper
                    backs. It was a most wonderful book. In examining it some years later, I observed that the
                    title-page boldly asserts that it is: "The cheapest, the best, and the most extensively
                    used spelling book ever published." I presume that statement has never been challenged.
                    Records show that sixty-two millions of copies of this book were issued.
            At that early period teachers had not discovered the short cut to an education as at the present day,
                    in teaching pupils to read before they learn their letters, so I began with the a, b, c's.
                    With the blade of a little white handle knife, the teacher, Mr. William Hogue, pointed out each
                    letter from a to z and I repeated the name after him.
            On an opposite page of the book, I saw a picture of a teacher directing with her right hand a pupil
                    who timidly holds to her left, to a hill upon which stands the Temple of Knowledge surmounted by a
                    dome styled "Fame." I presume I considered the picture to be emblematical, and
                    with my feet upon the first rung of the ladder, I began ascent. Dear old spelling books; in a few
                    weeks its mysteries were unfolded to me page by page, until I arrived at its longest word:
                    incomprehensibility! I had touched the hem of the garment of knowledge, and to a slight extent had
                    felt some of its virtues.
            One of the pleasant memories of my early school days, was the commendation of my father upon my
                    return home at the close of the day. It was the gulf stream of love and en-  couragement warming up the latent energies of a youthful mind. Sitting
                    upon his knees, I would recount to him how I had "turned a new leaf" in my
                    day's lesson. His interest in my advancement was a great stimulus to my efforts. There came
                    a day when, upon my return home I found my father was in bed, and I was told that he was sick. It
                    was his final illness. I had made my last report to him concerning my victories, and was soon to
                    learn a new lesson in life, my first bitter sorrow.
            I had been in the school room but a short time when I saw several beech rods standing conspicuously
                    in one corner. I confess that was anything but comforting. Like the "Mysterious
                    Stranger" in Jane Taylor's story, who came from one of the celestial planets to
                    reside upon the earth, and was pleased and undisturbed until he saw a cemetery and learned the sad
                    story that death was the doom of all men, so the sight of these rods gave me apprehension for the
                    future.
            "The stick," says the Egyptian proverb, "came down from heaven."
                    Had I known this information at that time, I would have inferred that I was "not far from
                    the Kingdom." Finally, I came to the conclusion that whatever other inducements might have
                    been offered in the selection of a site for this schoolhouse, that the greatest bonus presented, was
                    the proximity of a large beech woods.
            Both sexes were often punished by standing for a season upon the floor. One day little Miss L. a
                    maiden of about twelve summers was standing upon the floor when her pantalets suddenly fell to her
                    ankles. Did she blush? Not at all. She got mad, disentangled one foot from the wreck, and with the
                    other foot she kicked the garment across the room! Such was the discipline in the school at that
                    time that this little mishap occasioned no ripple of merriment or excitement. If I tell tales out of
                    school, remember it was many, many years ago, For minor offenses boys were compelled to sit among
                    the girls, or the girls were required to sit with the boys.
            We were never kept in after school hours. If a scholar transgressed, punishment was meted out at
                    once. The teacher was an autocrat in the school room, and to use a military phrase, he
                    "assumed command." The pupil was punished as 
                    the teacher deemed proper, sometimes, we would say at the present day "severely,"
                    nay, I will add most cruelly, and yet, I can recall no instance where the parents attempted in the
                    civil courts to prosecute the teacher. The extreme dislike of pupils and parents to active
                    discipline in schools at this day, is in marked contrast with the prevailing sentiment of sixty,
                    seventy, and eighty years ago.
            I have been in perils inside, and outside the schoolroom. I have passed under the rod in times above
                    measure. I have stood upon the floor until my muscles ached. I have been compelled to sit with the
                    girls, and by the side of one whose hair was of the deepest auburn, and whose eyes showed a bad case
                    of double strabismus. At the noon hour I have been chased out of farmer Higgin's orchard by
                    dogs. I have been restricted in my excursions into Linville's meadow, because of the
                    demonstrations of a vicious bull that roamed at will like a living personification of the Monroe
                    Doctrine. As 
                        St. Paul
                     says: 
                        None of these things moved me.
                    
            
            Those were the days that antedated Roosevelt, and his enunciation of a "strenuous
                    life," and yet, as I recall the stirring events of that period, I am almost led to believe
                    that I stood upon its threshold.
            Each day's work consisted of eight hours in the schoolroom. We had a short recess at the
                    middle of the forenoon, and also the afternoon, and an intermission of one hour at noon. The usual
                    games at these outings were marbles, town ball, bull pen, blind man's buff, pussy wants a
                    corner, etc.
            The scholars brought their luncheon, the dinner basket being carefully filled every morning on
                    leaving home, with substantial food prepared by a mother's loving hands. The morning walk,
                    added to the protracted fast from the early morning meal of the farmers' homes, gave us
                    wonderful ap petites. In disagreeable weather the schoolroom served as a temporary dining hall. In
                    warm weather we sought the shade of the trees. These picnic occasions were enlivened by stories and
                    country gossip.
            I remember how one boy would detail to us portions of letters from an uncle who then was a soldier in 
                        Mexico
                     giving  accounts of hair's breadth
                    escapes. How little did we then surmise that in a few more short years many of us would encounter
                    greater conflicts on battle fields than were ever dreamed of by his uncle.
            One day an older boy brought to school a round oblong wooden box with sand cemented to one of its
                    ends. Inside this box were a number of small round sticks tipped at one end with sulphur. His father
                    had recently visited 
                        Cincinnati
                     and brought home with him this "strange fire." The boy called them
                    "matches," and assured us that if he were to rub the end covered with sulphur
                    against the rough end of the box, it would "take fire." He verified his statements
                    by igniting a couple of them. Signor Blitz never startled an audience with one of his
                    mysterious-slight-of-hand maneuvers more than was this group of school children at the sight of a
                    spontaneous fire. Long since the striking of a match has lost its wonderment. Many a time on a hot
                    summer's day when the fire had gone out on our hearth-stone, I had gone with a couple of
                    boards to Mr. Evick's a neighbor, in order to borrow fire. At once, I realized that the
                    match was an air line route to combustion, and that we were on the eve of a domestic revolution!
            Spelling matches were a source of much enjoyment at the log schoolhouse. These were usually held at
                    night, once or twice a month. On such occasions two were selected as captains; these would choose
                    from among the scholars, and then the two classes would take positions on opposite sides of the
                    room. Sometimes words were given out alternately from one side to the other, while all were
                    standing, and those failing to spell the word correctly would sit down. At other times, one from
                    each side would stand upon the floor until one would mis-spell the word and then be seated.
            Quite often the parents of the children would attend these spelling bees, and manifest a great deal
                    of interest in the contest. Occasionally a number of good spellers from one school would be pitted
                    against an equal number from a neighboring school. Excitement of a mild character, would run high as
                    the spelling progressed, and the visitors would be cheered. On dark nights the larger boys would
                    provide hickory bark torches, and these would light the path for all.
            
            Our pens were manufactured by the teacher from goose quills. Usually he was quite proficient in this
                    art. The common small pocket-knife is called a penknife from its former use in making and mending
                    quill pens. As the pen became worn, it was referred to the teacher for "mending."
                    Often he would be engaged in making or mending a pen while a class was reciting. The teacher
                    "set" copies for writing classes, and the teachers of that period took a pride in
                    their penmanship.
            Mr. John B. Hall, a native of the state of 
                        New York
                    , was my second teacher. He was a cultured gentleman of a high order. He was competent
                    to teach all branches taught in the country schools of those days. He wrote a beautiful hand. He was
                    tall, rather spare, and died a few years later, a victim of tuberculosis.
            The teachers we are considering, were remarkable men. Generally, they were well qualified to teach
                    the required branchs of study. They were strict disciplinarians, and their pupils made rapid
                    progress under their instruction. I know of only one female teacher in the rural district.
            For many little acts of kindness shown me, I record her name, Miss Angeline Donnell.
            I am not a teacher, nor have I made the subject of teaching a study, consequently, I am unable to
                    express an opinion as to a comparison of the mode of teaching half a century ago with the present
                    day. I have no doubt that we have made great advancement. When I see magnificent schoolhouses at the
                    present day, constructed not of rude logs, but of stone and brick, and know that their rooms are
                    supervised by trained and experienced teachers, supported by our great common school law, I am
                    inclined to exclaim: "What a high standard of education we have a right to expect and even
                    demand."
            I want to say a word of praise for the school readers of the early day. We will never know the great
                    debt we owe to the McGuffey's series of readers for their educational and moral training.
                    They combine prose and poetry, history, fiction, orations and biblical extracts of beauty and
                    sublimity. What wonderful, inspirations haw been implanted in the minds of pupils in studying these
                    selections. The testing  time in life is in the common every-day
                    life, apparently, simple duty, and not in the great crises we may chance to meet. There stands in
                    the center of our capital city, a stately monument dedicated to the memory of
                    "Indiana's Silent Victors." In its order it is said to be unsurpassed in
                    the world. One of its inscriptions tells us that 4,585 of the sons of Indiana carried our flag to
                    the national capital of 
                        Mexico
                    . Another states that 210,497 of her sons followed that same flag for four years in a
                    war to maintain the Union of the States. 
                        Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
                     And so, 24,416 of the sons of Indiana laid down their lives for their country. The deeds
                    performed by these men were heroic, and their memory will survive so long as our nation endures. A
                    comparatively small number of Indiana's soldiers were favored with a classical education;
                    and as we revere the memory of our heroes, let us not forget that the rank and file, the men behind
                    the guns, were the boys who came from our country schools of an early day, of log schoolhouses!
                        
                        The cross-roads school, a rude affair, Of oaken logs, rough hewed, Guards with the heart of
                            loyalty Its rustic solitude. Nor asks, nor hopes a fairer fate Than the renown it hears Sung
                            to the service of its sons Across eventful years
                        GEORGE E. BOWEN
                    
            
            In the fall of 1848, I began to attend a school at 
                  Clarksburg, Decatur county
               , one mile
                    from our farm. The building was a plastered, but unpainted frame structure, and yet it seemed to me
                    a promotion. The teacher, was Mr. Nimrod Kerrick, a most excellent man and well qualified to
                    instruct. Here, also discipline prevailed under the reign of the rod. Mr. Kerrick taught for several
                    years, and finally entered the travelling ministry of the M. E. church. After some years he located
                    at 
                  Bloomington, Illinois
               , and died there in December, 1897, at the age of 88 years. He
                    wrote a beautiful hand;  some of his writing in an old copy book
                    in my possession looks like a copper plate print. He trained us in reading classes, and often
                    elaborated on the subjects about which we had read. His kindly talks to the class were very helpful
                    to me. I remember an article in McGuffey's reader by Grimke, where he compares the lives of 
                        Lafayette
                     and Robert Raikes, in which reference is incidentally made to the sacrifice of Elijah
                    upon Mount Carmel. His graphic rehearsal of this bible story greatly impressed me. More than sixty
                    years later, as I rode on horseback over the plain of Esdraelon, in Palestine, I saw Mount Carmel a
                    short distance away, and the story told so vividly by my good teacher came up before me like a real
                    object lesson.
            A few words as to my after life. My future school days were few; and I never even graduated from a
                    high school. However, I would not exchange my training in life which I have received for a diploma
                    from 
                        Harvard
                     university. I believe that a person deprived of the privilege of a collegiate course
                    can acquire a fair knowledge of the English language by improving ordinary opportunities.
            In September, 1856, when sixteen years of age I accompanied some of my relatives to Montezuma, 
                        Iowa
                    . A year later I began and continued to work for two years in a printing office, The
                    Montezuma Republican. This work was educational and an inspiration for me. I mastered every
                    department of a country printing office, preserving a copy of every paper upon which I worked.
                    Recently, I transferred these copies to the Historical Department of Iowa at Des Moines. It was in
                    the printing office that I formed a resolution to study medicine.
            In November, 1859, I returned to Indiana where I pursued my studies for one year in a common school
                    at Greens-burg, Indiana.
            A few days after my twenty-first birthday, at 
                        Greensburg
                    , Indiana, I entered upon the study of medicine, but soon was interrupted by the
                    beginning of the Civil war. On the 15th day of April, 1861, Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     issued his proclamation calling for 75,000 volunteers. Three days later I volunteered,
                    and was one of that number. I served as a private soldier in 
                    Company B, Seventh regiment, Indiana volunteers in the three months' service, and as such
                    was in the first engagement of the Civil war, at Phillippi, 
                        Virginia
                    , (now West 
                        Virginia
                    ), June 3rd, 1861. I went back to Phillippi, fifty years later to a semi-centennial
                    celebration, June 3, 1911, and with comrades of the Blue and the Gray, celebrated 'the
                    anniversary of the battle. At the close of this term of service, I re-enlisted in the Seventeenth
                    regiment Indiana volunteers, (Wilder's Brigade) and served seventeen months as a hospital
                    steward, and eighteen months as assistant surgeon of same regiment. My name is carved, with others,
                    in granite on the Wilder monument on the battle field at 
                        Chickamauga
                    .
            After my army service, I attended a course of medical lectures at the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , and a second course at the Long Island College Hospital, 
                        Brooklyn
                    , N. Y., where I graduated M. D. in June, 1865.
            I located in 
                        Muncie
                     in August, 1865, when at once I began the practice of medicine, and continued to
                    practice more than fifty years. During the first four years my country trips were made on horseback.
                    My practice was an arduous one.
            I have been honored by my profession. In 1886, I was elected president of the Indiana State medical
                    society, and presided at the session in 1887.
            I have contributed more than fifty articles on medical topics for medical journals and medical
                    societies. I have delivered several courses of lectures on the History of Medicine before classes of
                    medical students, and at this time am Emeritus Professor of the History of Medicine in Indiana
                    University.
            In 1897, I wrote a booklet on the subject of Uses of Suffering, and in 1905 a small
                    volume entitled the World's Anatomists. In 1911, I contributed a volume
                    entitled A Medical History of Indiana.
            I am historian of the Indiana State medical association. These literary efforts gave me a place in
                        Who is Who in America.
            
            In 1905, my wife and I visited 
                        Egypt
                    , and Palestine, returning by way of 
                  Turkey,
                            Greece
                and Europe.
            I have not neglected the beauties and grandeur of my own native land.
            
            In 1865, I was united in marriage to Miss Harriet Kemper, of Oskaloosa, 
                        Iowa
                    . Four children were born to us, two sons and a daughter survive; one son died in
                    babyhood. My wife and I shared together our joys, sorrows, and travels for nearly forty-nine years,
                    when her earthly house of clay she forsook and entered the life everlasting.
            I have served my country and my adopted city in several capacities.
            I have not neglected my church obligations, serving among other duties as a Sunday School
                    superintendent for twenty years. In 1916 I was a lay member of the General Conference of the
                    Methodist Episcopal church, held at Saratoga Springs, 
                        New York
                    . I have never allowed outside duties to cause me to forget that I was a physician. I
                    have quitted the banquet table to relieve the suffering.
            I have lived in a progressive period; one prolific in events and changes. I have been permitted to
                    see many things and persons. I have seen kings, queens, and princes. I have looked into the faces of
                    dead men and women who walked the earth about four or five thousand years ago. Doubtless, some of
                    them conversed with Moses. I have entered cathedrals, mosques, and palaces, of kings, and seen the
                    paintings of the great master painters.
            At the time I was born, people rode in stage coaches. Railroads did not appear until a later date. I
                    never saw a railroad until I was twelve years old, and did not ride on a train until I was sixteen.
                    The telegraph and telephone were unknown.
            I saw men and women thrusting the sickle into the ripened grain as was done in the days of the
                    Psalmist, three thousand years ago. I saw the development of the grain cradle, and then the rude
                    reaper, and finally the self-binder with its marvelous achievements.
            In every department of science wonderful changes have been wrought in my time. Consider for a moment
                    the advances made in medicine and surgery, anesthesia, the revelation in germ discoveries, the
                    prevention of diseases, Lister's gospel of cleanliness, thwarting the ravages of diphtheria
                    with antitoxins, as well as hundreds of new remedies, and improvements in surgical instruments.
            
            I have seen men, women and children toiling in bondage because their skin was black, and have helped
                    to break their shackles.
            I have seen Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     and heard his talk. I have seen nearly all the Presidents from 1860 to 1920.
            I have listened to Tom Corwin, the prince of political orators, Wendell Phillips, Anson Burlingame,
                    Henry Wilson, Oliver P. Morton, and many others who thrilled the masses in the fifties and sixties
                    of the last century.
            A number of times I have heard Henry Ward Beecher in his own pulpit; and I have lost myself in
                    ecstacy while listening to the heavenly themes of Bishop Simpson.
            It is now more than eighty-three years since I first saw the light on the farm house I have described
                    at the beginning of this booklet. My life has been one of industry, toil, and activity; sometimes I
                    have met with hardships and occasional privation, and yet, my journey has mostly been through a
                    sunny land. Surely goodness and mercy have ever been near me. The snows of eighty-three winters have
                    whitened my locks, but my physical frame is fairly good considering my age.
         
         
         
            Indiana's Last October Campaign
            By PAUL TINCHER SMITH, A. M., Purdue
            Until after the election of 1880, the Indiana vote for the President had more than a casual
                    importance; for, until 1881, Indiana was one of the "October" states. Moreover,
                    Indiana was always one of the "doubtful" states, and the way it went in October
                    was thought to be a sure index to the final result in November. It was common to hear the remark,
                    "the way Indiana and 
                        New York
                     go, so goes the nation."1 Indeed it was not mere
                    supposition on the part of politicians that led them to believe that Indiana indicated something of
                    importance in October, for from the time Indiana began to vote for President in 1816 until the
                    election of 1884, this state had missed the national guess but three times; in 1836 when it voted
                    for William Henry Harrison, in 1848 when Lewis Cass received a majority of the votes, and again in
                    1876 when Samuel J. Tilden was the choice.
            Perhaps this small percentage of error may be reduced still further, if we take into consideration
                    the fact that Harrison was a particular pet of Indiana, and four years later, also of the nation,
                    and one can hardly say that the selection of Tilden in 1876 was far from the national mark. Indiana
                    had the habit of selecting the right man to such a degree that on one occasion, when the selection
                    for state officers went against the national decision, yet the state stayed with the winning party
                    in the matter of selecting the President. The two fads, namely that Indiana usually selected the
                    right man and that it was an "October" state, meant much of importance as to the
                    handling of the state campaign. Neither party could afford to let one stone remain unturned in the
                    effort to carry the state over the line in the right direction.
            An element that was sure to play conspicuously into the politics of the Hoosier state for, many
                    succeeding years occurred in 1874-1875. This was the period of the so-called 
                  
                     1 LaFollett, The History of the Campaign Funds from
                            1816 to 1898, pp. 13. (Master's thesis in Library of University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            .)
               
                     "Tidal-wave" elections in many states, when
                    the political color of these several states changed so decidedly that there was immediate evidence
                    of a national change coming. In the election for representatives of the Forty-Fourth congress in
                    this year, 
                  Massachusetts, New York, New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
                        Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, Ohio
               , Indiana,
                    Michigan and other northern states of Republican disposition went Democratic with almost the entire
                        South.2 In this move on the part of Indiana and in the following elections,
                    the state still maintained its record for leadership in the decision for the President, Tilden
                    receiving the popular vote in 1876. The causes for the change of disposition in Indiana were
                    various; the unfortunate affairs in 
                        Washington
                     during President Grant's second term, and especially the "Belknap
                    affair" had much to do with it, and the panic of 1873 made some Democratic votes. But
                    probably more important than either of these was the effect of the Resumption Act of 1875 on
                    Indiana's debtor communities. Indiana was always close to the line, and there was easily a
                    sufficient number of borrowing individuals, especially in southern Indiana, to throw the decision
                    against the party responsible for the Resumption act.
            In the election of 1876, Indiana was the fighting ground for the two political parties.3 By 1880 the position had changed but little. The Greenback movement undoubtedly reached
                    its climax when the national convention of that party met in 
                        Toledo
                     on 
                        Washington
                    's birthday in 1878. At that time it had more just argument and more actual
                    power than it had ever had before and more than it was to have at any time afterward. Indiana was
                    one of the first states to follow up the 
                        Toledo
                     convention with a systematic campaign for Greenback organization; the organization was
                    effected in 1878 and, in 1880, the party appeared ready to contend in the national eledion with the
                    two old line groups. The Nationd-Greenback-Labor party, as the alignment was known during this
                    election, held a convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on April 28, 1880, at which time a platform was adopted, resembling closely 
                  
                     2 Kinney, The Presidential Campaign of 1876.
                            (University of Wisconsin thesis.)
                  
                     3 Carmichael, O. P. The Election of 1876, With Special
                                Reference to Indiana. (In Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, Dec.,
                        1913.)
               
                     the National platform. This document declared that the people
                    were capable of managing their own finances, under government control; that the government was
                    capable of managing its financial interests without the aid of outside banks; that high prices were
                    due to the fact that the moneyed interests were in control. It demanded that all currency should be
                    made legal tender; that the national debt should be paid immediately; that the right of free speech
                    should be guaranteed. In addition, it pronounced Chinese labor unjustfiable; and demanded that the
                    government should secure the laborer in his rights. On this platform, Richard Gregg was nominated
                    for Governor.4
            
            The Republican platform, adopted at the convention which met at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , June 18, acted about as might have been expected. The national resolutions were
                    endorsed, emigration without investigation was proposed, dishonest promissory notes were denounced,
                    protection of laborers was favored, and the pension item was given the usual attention.5
            
            The Democratic platform, formulated at the convention on June 10, began with an elaborately worded
                    congratulation for the success of the party during the preceding four years. Then followed a
                    declaration against class-legislation; one in favor of putting paper money and coin at par; and one
                    against the attempt of Republican leaders to form a strong central power. Pensions were endorsed,
                    economy in public school expenditure was lauded, a sting concerning the methods of the Republican
                    party in the election of 1876 was delivered, and Chinese labor received the same denunciation given
                    it by the Greenbackers. The prosperity of the period was credited to conditions for which the
                    Republican party was not to blame; the continuance of the two-thirds rule was favored, and Hendricks
                    was approved for the presidential nominee of the national party.6
            
            The campaign opened with these three platforms before the people. The Greenbackers had changed names
                    since the last presidential election, and they felt that they were not 
                  
                     4
                            Appleton's Annual Encyclopedia, 1880, pp. 394.
                  
                     5 Henry. State Platforms of the Two Dominant Political
                                Parties in Indiana, 1850-1900, PP. 62.
                  
                     6 Henry, Ibid., pp. 60.
               
                     as strong as they had been four years before; the Republicans
                    knew that they were not in any easy way for victory; and the Democrats, having gained two more
                    congressmen in the election of 1878, felt that they had every reason to be encouraged.
            As the campaign proceeded, three issues stood out as the real questions of the election. The first
                    was the question of the constitutional vote in Indiana. The Indiana constitution of 1852 provided
                    that an amendment, in order to become part of the constitution of the state, should pass the vote of
                    two successive General Assemblies and then be submitted to the popular vote of the state. According
                    to this provision, seven amendments passed the General Assembly in 1877 and again in 1879, and they
                    were presented forthwith to the people of the state in April, 1879.7 The popular vote seemed to be
                    favoring the amendments when two flaws appeared to disturb matters and to react against the party
                    which had perpetrated the errors. One man in the legislature had voted for one of the amendments
                    according to a provision in the first of the series of amendments, whereas he should have voted
                    according to the previous ruling, and, moreover, there was found to be no provision for the accurate
                    counting of the number who voted. The whole matter was laid before the state supreme court, and this
                    body decided that the flaws invalidated the new amendment.8
            
            The second issue was the discussion of the free trade plan of the Democrats near the end of the
                    canvass. Of course this was stock material but, nevertheless, it is estimated that enough employees
                    were stirred up against the Democrats to lose them at least a thousand votes.9
                    The third and most important item in the campaign was not an issue at all; it consisted of a most
                    undignified abuse of individuals and general "mud-slinging." The real policies of
                    the parties were not discussed seriously at all, and the Republicans had as little as possible to
                    say about finance. An Indiana correspondent of the 
                        New York
                     Nation reported the following: "One member 
                  
                     7
                            Appleton's Annual Encyclopedia, 1879, pp. 496.
                  
                     8
                            Appleton's Annual Encyclopedia, 1880, pp. 398.
                  
                     9 Novels, Russel Wason, Six Presidential Elections in
                                Indiana, pp. 12. (University of Wisconsin Thesis.)
               
                     of the state committee [Republican] remarked in my hewing, that
                    ‘the less we say about finances in this country the better we are
                        of’".10 The real problem of the campaign did not hang
                    upon anything more statesmanlike than "carry the state."
            The canvass started out with more spirit than the one of 1878 had known, both parties fully cognizant
                    of the importance of victory in this "doubtful" state. The importance which the
                    Democrats for example, attached to winning the state is illustrated by the fact that the Democratic
                    central committee chairman, Barnum, moved his headquarters to 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the last week of the campaign. He was there personally to supervise the canvass,
                    and the Republicans claimed that he brought interesting money with him.11
            
            The Republicans brought their strongest speakers into the state; James G. Blaine, Lyman Trumbull and
                    Roscoe Conkling were to be heard in every town of any size. Carl Schurz did some of the best work
                    for his party in Indiana at this time; his speech in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , July 20, was a masterful appeal to reason, and he showed his good sense by trying to
                    make the audience see the danger of a change, rather than by tearing his hair madly over
                    sentimentalities, as many of the other speakers did.13 Perhaps the next best
                    thing from the standpoint of orderly discussion of important questions was a series of joint debates
                    between the two candidates of the leading parties for governor. These debates are said to have been
                    carried on with "reasonable decorum".13
            
            With the exception of the foregoing illustrations, the campaign speeches consisted of clap-trap and
                    generally senseless appeals to emotion. Finally the whole thing degenerated into petty
                    personalities. A fair illustration of the typical campaign speech is presented by Albert G. Porter,
                    nominee for Governor on the Republican ticket, who dwelt usually on the three points, the humble
                    origin of Garfield, the glorious record of the Republican party, and the plans of the
                    "Solid South" 
                  
                     10
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, correspondence, Oct. 21, 1880.
                  
                     11 Nowels, Ibid., pp. 12.
                  
                     12
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, July 22, 1880.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., Sept. 9, 1880.
               
                     to come into power. It would seem that the Republicans might
                    well have discussed the question of silver coinage and the retirement of the Greenbacks, but these
                    seem to have been studiously avoided. Anything that would get the popular ear was fit for stumping
                    purposes, and nothing else was considered.14 The correspondent of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Nation observed that he had heard the the Civil Service question mentioned in two
                    instances and the retirement of the Greenbacks not at all.15 The mud-slinging
                    was blamed more on the Democrats than the Republicans, for it all seems to have started with the
                    Democratic nominee for governor, 
                        Franklin
                     Landers, calling his opponent, Porter, a drunkard.16 The 
                        New York
                    
                    World, probably biased, remarked at the end of the campaign that the Republican
                    ideas of politics and finance were reflected well in the campaign: 
                        They [the Republicans] are now audible all over the city through penny whistles, tin
                            trumpets, and firecrackers. The streets are full of half-grown boys making noises, and the
                            bar-rooms of drunken members of the party [talking] of great moral ideas.17
                  
                    
            
            Probably the same thing might well have been said concerning the Democratic party. Enthusiasm ran
                    high in both parties; said the 
                        New York
                    
                    Nation on the eve of the election: 
                        In Indiana both parties are very enthusiastic, and will both carry the State, the Democrats
                            by 16,000, and the Republicans by 8,000 majority.18
                  
                    
            
            One of the interesting phases of the campaign was its cost. More than once has Indiana been assisted
                    by both parties from the outside in the all-important matter of financing a canvass, and more than
                    once have suggestive remarks been passed concerning wrong uses of funds by members of both parties.
                    The Republicans were charged in the case of this election with bringing at least $300,000
                    into the state from the east.19 Whatever the amount used, it is sure that twenty
                        
                  
                     14
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, Oct. 21, 1880, in "Correspondence on the
                            ‘Evolution of the Indiana Campaign’".
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., Oct. 21, 1880.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., Sept. 9, 1880.
                  
                     17
                            
                                New York
                            
                            World, Oct. 14, 1880.
                  
                     18
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, Sept. 30, 1880.
                  
                     19 Nowels, Ibid., pp. 13.
               
                     prominent business men of 
                        Philadelphia
                     met September 9 to consider ways of getting money for the Indiana campaign, and it is
                    also sure that five days later they issued a letter to Pennsylvania manufacturers, showing the
                    immediate need for aid in the Indiana Republican organization. The Wall Street capitalists raised a
                    special fund; the campaign committee of Maine granted $25,000 for use in Indiana; 
                        Boston
                    , it seems, sent $175,000, and a large sum was collected in 
                        New York city
                    .20 Individuals aided materially; one man is said to have
                    contributed $50,000. A student of the subject of campaign finance states that,
                    "there was a fixed price for almost every elective office."21
                    In addition to these considerable amounts raised on the outside, much also came from within; it is
                    estimated that Oliver P. Morton collected $300,000 within twenty-four hours in
                        Indiana.22 The facts about the amount of money collected and used by the
                    Democrats are more obscure, but it is a safe guess that, whatever amount thy had, it totalled much
                    less than the amount raised by the Republicans, for they had fewer sources from which money could
                    come. In all, the two parties could hardly have spent less than a million dollars on the
                        campaign.23
            
            Corruption in the use of party money is a very hard thing to prove in any instance, and I certainly
                    do not have the material to prove that there was any corruption in Indiana in the campaign of 1880.
                    However, the claim was made by each party that the other used corrupt practice, both as regards the
                    use of funds and also by making use of "repeaters." Many of the claims are
                    unsubstantiated, and all of the unproved statements of either concerning the other must be taken
                    "with a grain of salt." Nevertheless, it will not be out of the way to repeat the
                    most trustworthy claims.
            The first claim by both parties was that the other grossly misused money in the election. The
                    Republicans had more charged against them on this score than their rivals, probably because of an
                    incident which stood out with great prominence. This incident is centered in the fact that Stephen
                    W. 
                  
                     20 LaFollett, Ibid., pp. 23-26 and 
                                New York
                            
                            World, Oct. 6, 1880.
                  
                     21 LaFollett, Ibid., pp. 23.
                  
                     22
                            World's Work, Vol. 1, pp. 78.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., pp. 77.
               
                     Dorsey, secretary of the Republican National committee, was the
                    most active worker for the Republicans in Indiana. Nothing much was said about the abuse of funds
                    while the campaign was actually in progress, but, on February 11, 1881, at Delmonico's in 
                        New York
                    , some interesting remarks were made. The occasion was a dinner in honor of the
                    successful work which Dorsey had done in the campaign. That it was no small affair may be gathered
                    from a list of the mort prominent Republican names represented there; the list includes among others
                    the following: John Jacob Astor, J. Pierpont Morgan, John A. Stewart, Levi P. Morton, Thurlow Weed,
                    Jesse Seligman, Frank Work, Robert Lenox Kennedy, F. S. Winston, Henry B. Hyde, D. O. Mills, B.
                    Cannon, William S. Dinsmore and M. W. Cooper.24 Each speech of the evening was
                    burdened with the single topic: the success of Dorsey in the Hoosier state. One of the most striking
                    remarks of the evening came from Whitelaw Reed when he humorously suggested: *
                    * * 
                        that there was in fact a regular school for Republican canvassers instituted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , of which Mr. Dorsey was the president and chief professor.25
                  
                    
            
            The speeches of the others followed the same general laudatory trend from one to another until Mr.
                    Arthur's turn came. The results of his speech were far reaching enough to be worthy of
                    repetition, in part. Speaking in praise of the man who "carried Indiana," he
                    proceeded with this remark: 
                        Indiana was really, I suppose, a Democratic state. It has been put down on the books always
                            as a state that might be carried by close and perfect organization and a great deal
                            of———. I see the reporters are present, therefore I will
                            simply say that everybody showed a great deal of interest in the occasion and distributed
                            tracts and political documents all through the state.26
                  
                    
            
            This speech evoked a round of laughter from the banquetters, and that ended it for the evening. When
                    the report got to the public next day, the word "soft soap" was almost 
                  
                     24
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, Feb. 12, 1881.
                  
                            25
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     26
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, Feb. 12, 1881.
               
                     immediately supplied to fill in Mr. Arthur's omission.
                    The public more readily accepted the interpolation because of Mr. Dorsey's concluding
                    remark, in which he 
                        rejoiced at the evidence of awakening interest in the sons of the ria men in the service of
                            their country.27
                  
                    
            
            There was nothing in the happenings at the banquet for which Mr. Dorsey could be convicted of
                    wrongfully using the campaign funds; as far as the speeches went, they were probably only intended
                    to add levity to the evening's proceedings. However, much truth was suggested in the
                    speeches. The people on the outside, and more particularly the defeated party, took up the
                    "Dorsey episode" and used it with all their ability to injure Dorsey's
                    party and his personal reputation. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Nation claimed that 
                        Dorsey was one of the most disreputable of the Arkansas carpet-baggers of the reconstruction
                                period28;
                     moreover, they stated that Dorsey was directly connected with the
                    "Star-route" frauds of Grant's second term, saying *
                    * * that it appears as if what may be called Dorsey's
                    "military family" pocketed a cool $446,826 between them.29 W. P. Fish-back, a prominent lawyer of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and a former partner with General Harrison, wrote an open letter to Stanton J. Peele,
                    Republican congressman from Indiana, in 1883, saying: 
                        Men like Dorsey will come to 
                                Indianapolis
                             again, as they came in 1880, and distribute four hundred thousand dollars in
                            the Dennison House parlors, to be used in buying votes, hiring repeaters, bribing election
                            officials to stuff ballot-boxes and falsify election returns30
                  
                    
            
            The fact that this open letter was never challenged caused many to believe that its statements were
                    literally true. Mr. Dorsey admitted that $400,000 was spent in Indiana, but not by him,
                    merely under his direction.31 Whatever the facts in 
                  
                     27
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, Feb. 12, 1881.
                  
                     28
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, Feb. 17, 1881.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., April 28, 1881.
                  
                     30 LaFollett, Ibid., pp. 26.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., PP. 26.
               
                     the case were, the charges told heavily on the party in the
                    next election.
            Misuse of party funds was but one of the charges levied by each party on the other's canvass
                    plans. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald came out with a statement, October 11, headed, "Influx of
                    convicts, murderers, sneak-thieves, burglars, and bronco men" and * *
                    * "money for fraud, none for comfort is charged on both sides."32 This far away from the time of the event the heading seems laughable, but it
                    at least represents the belief of both parties to some extent. A circumstance which made it possible
                    for this type of accusation to circulate was the fact that the state was operating under the
                    election law of 1859, which provided that the trustee of each township should be the inspector of
                    elections. The law further stipulated that the trustee was to appoint two voters, with the consent
                    of the voters present before the opening of the polls; these two with the trustee to constitute an
                    election board.33 The provisions of this law made it possible, therefore, for
                    one party or the other to control the election board.
            In the matter of "repeaters" the claims of each of the parties concerning the
                    activity of the other were much better founded than were the claims as to financial dishonesty. The
                    statement became notoriously common that the vote of a Hoosier was "worth a crisp
                    two-dollar bill."34 The most important claim of the Democrats was that
                    the Republicans were "colonizing" Indiana with men from all parts of the country,
                    and especially with negroes from 
                        Kentucky
                    .35 Exactly the same charge was brought by the Republicans against
                    the Democrats, concerning the bringing of men from the east. Early in October, "The Boys in
                    Blue" met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and this was interpreted by many as being merely a cover for the influx of desperate
                        characters.36 It is an interesting coincidence that at the same time many
                    clerks in 
                        Washington
                     were getting leaves of absence in order to return home to vote; and many of these were
                    thought to be on their way "to attend 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., pp. 24 (quoted from the 
                                New York
                             Herald, Oct. 11, 1880.)
                  
                     33
                            Laws of Indiana, 1859, pp. 110-111.
                  
                     34 LaFollett, Ibid., pp. 25.
                  
                     35
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, Oct. 7, 1880. "Stories of the importation of negro
                            voters continue to appear in the Democratic organs".
                  
                     36
                            
                                New York
                            
                            World, Oct. 6, 1880.
               
                     the meeting of the ‘Boys in
                        Blue’".37 On October 8 the 
                        New York
                     Tribune stated that "The Democrats have brought a gang of 
                        Philadelphia
                     ‘roughs’ here (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) under charge of the notorious Alderman ‘Bill
                    McMullin’"; detectives were reported to be following.38
                    Chairman Barnum of the Democratic Central committee was said to have been in Indiana often
                    * * * "distributing money in the different
                        localities."39 The 
                        Chicago
                     Tribune printed the statement on October 10, that each Democratic boss in each school
                    district of the state had been sent one hundred dollars.40
            
            The same paper mentioned above is responsible for the statement that there was an organized plan on
                    foot among the Democrats for the capturing of the state. The plan, which is outlined below, was
                    supposed to have been captured from one of the leaders of the party. According to the captured plan,
                    there were eight well planned steps to be taken in each voting district; First, a large number of
                    Democrats would cast their votes; second, having gathered together at a convenient distance, they
                    would start a quarrel; the quarrel well under way, they would produce billies and the little quarrel
                    would have turned into a fight; a state of riot having been achieved, the governor would call the
                    troops to the polls; the troops called would not be state troops but merely a secret Democratic
                    military organization; state arms would be procured at the rendezvous of the Democratic party; the
                    riot would continue until the armed forces had had time to rifle and change the ballots. The whole
                    scheme seems so manufactured that it is hard to understand that people were affected by its
                    publication, and yet it seems evident that it did have some effect on the vote at the polls.41
            
            Toward the close of the campaign the two more important parties began exchanging more and more bitter
                    remarks and accusations. In the heat of the bad feeling, October 11, a negro janitor in 
                        Indianapolis
                     shot and seriously injured a white Democrat, and this incident was of course
                    immediately 
                  
                     37
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, Oct. 6, 1880.
                  
                     38
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, Oct. 8, 1880.
                  
                     39 LaFollett, Ibid., pp. 27.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, Oct. 11, 1880.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, Oct. 11, 1880.
               
                     attributed to Republican agitation. That the incident had some
                    effect upon the result of the election seems clear.42 A new and interesting
                    claim by the Republicans appeared just before the election. They declared that a Mr. Gilbert De
                    LaMatyr, Greenbacker, desirous of retaining his seat in congress, made a bargain with the Democrats
                    whereby the Greenback party was to support the Democratic candidate in the Ninth district in return
                    for the nomination and support of De LaMatyr in his own district by the Democrats.43 The culmination of all of these charges came in the form of a mass-meeting held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in nonpartisan fashion, "to resist the encroachments of a corrupt Democracy
                    and to adopt measures for the extermination of Democratic repeaters and sluggers and
                        thieves."44
            
            When the day of election came, none of the disorder which had been predicted occurred. The vote was
                    the heaviest that had ever been polled up to that time in the state and that was probably due to the
                    hard work of managers on both sides. Of course, this neither proves nor disproves the charge of
                    corruption. Out of 498,437 eligible citizens, 470,738 voted; that number is not incompatible with
                    legitimate methods.45
            
            In both the October and the November elections the Republicans were successful. The vote for the two
                    elections was as follows:46
                    
                  
                     October election
                     November election
                  
                  
                     Rep.
                     Dem.
                     Gbk.
                     Rep.
                     Dem.
                     Gbk.
                  
                  
                     Porter
                     Landers
                     Gregg
                     Garfield 
                     Hancock 
                     Weaver
                  
                  
                     231,406
                     224,452
                     14,881
                     232,164
                     225,522
                     12,986
                  
                  
                     49.15%
                     47.68%
                     3.16%
                     49.32%
                     47.91%
                     2.77%
                  
                  
                     Total vote
                     Total vote
                  
                  
                     470,738
                     470,672
                  
               
            
            The most evident fact observable upon a casual view of the returns is that the Greenback vote did not
                    come up as 
                  
                     42
                            
                                New York
                            
                            World, Oct 11, 1880, and 
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, Oct 21, 1880. "The campaign in Indiana has given another
                            demonstration of the total lack of principle of the Republican machine, and of the
                            hopelessness of ever securing through its agency an honest discussion before the people of
                            things necessary in good government in this country".
                  
                     43
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, Sept. 29, 1880.
                  
                     44 Nowles, Ibid., from 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Times, oct. 8, 1880.
                  
                     45 Nowles, Ibid., pp. 15.
                  
                     46
                            Tribune Almanao, 1881.
               
                     high as the expectations of its leaders, and consequently the
                    other two parties gained. The big day of the Greenbackers was a thing of the past and the
                    conservative members drifted back into the old parties. Many of these conservatives were determined
                    to do something to change the unsatisfactory labor conditions of the country, and they had come to
                    the conclusion that the new party had little chance of quick success along this line.47 Also, many leaders in the country went into the Democratic ranks to indicate their
                    disapproval of Republican management in general. Whatever the reasons, it is evident from the
                    returns that the Greenback party had nothing like the success for which they had hoped; and it is
                    patent that many who voted in October for the new party changed their votes in November, and both of
                    the old parties gained by this fact.
            In neither the local nor the national election was the Republican victory a landslide. The
                    correspondent of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Nation gives the following estimate as to how the Republicans gained the ten
                    thousand votes between the election of 1876 and that of 1880. Although not based on exhaustive
                    examination, yet it serves to suggest a fair estimate of the additional votes. Here is the estimate:
                    1, Independent votes; 2, bulk of the business men gained in the last few weeks of the campaign; 3,
                    manufacturers; 4, votes due to the unpopularity of Landers; 5, votes due to the personal
                    unpopularity of English; 6, votes of Democrats dissatisfied with the overthrow of the constitutional
                        amendments.48 Many of these above-mentioned factions will be recognized as
                    regular Republican voters, but it must be remembered that many of these had been disaffected by
                    labor and financial conditions in the early seventies, as well as by the political scandals for
                    which the Republicans were blamed.
            It would seem evident that the campaign in Indiana in 1880 was of no small consequence in deciding
                    the national election of that year, and the campaign managers were not wrong in their judgment that
                    Indiana must be carried if the national election was to go the right way. Although it is practically
                        
                  
                     47 Haynes, Fred E., Third Party Movements Since the Civil
                                War, pp. 141 and 144. There was "a landslide, a tidal wave, an earthslip,
                            or whatever you would like to call it".
                  
                     48
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Nation, Oct. 21, 1880.
               
                     impossible to determine with exactitude just how much fraud was
                    practiced on each side, the advertisement which such action got served to add fuel to the bitterness
                    of the campaign. Likewise it is impossible to determine just how much injury was done to the
                    Democratic party in Indiana by the mud slinging, of which they certainly got the most. Possibly
                    there were sufficient items, aside from the charges of fraud, to have put the election over in favor
                    of the Republicans. However it is hard not to feel, after seeing the material, that slander had its
                    part in determining Indiana's vote.
            In 1880 Indiana was still a "doubtful" state, for it moved back into the Republican
                    column. Indiana has not yet lost her importance in deciding national contests, but 1880 was the last
                    time Indiana was to be so conspicuous because of its early election.
         
         
         
            The Thomas Family
            By LUKE W. THOMAS.
            Philip Thomas came from 
                        Wales
                    
               1 and settled in Maryland in about 1650. Records do not show how
                    many children he had, but there were four boys, one of whom was named Tristram. Tristram Thomas had
                    a son named Stephen, who went to what is now 
                        South Carolina
                     in about 1730 and settled on the Pedee river near Cheraw. He had a numerous family some
                    of whom went to 
                  Georgia, Tennessee
                and 
                        Kentucky
                    , Among Stephen's children were Tristram, William and John. Tristram was a
                    general in the Revolutionary war. William married the only daughter of Colonel Hicks. He became
                    immensely rich in lands—some nineteen miles in extent along the Pedee
                    river—and in slaves—nearly one thousand. The family is now extinct.
            John Thomas married Mollie Clark, whose genealogy is given herein. His son Francis was the first to
                    cross the Ohio river and come north. This he did in 1811. His father and most
                    of the family came a year later and all settled near what is now 
                        Fountain City
                    , Indiana. Later some of John's children, John, Elijah and his daughters
                    Christiana and Sarah, moved to Grant county. Afterward Elijah moved to Cass county, 
                        Michigan
                    .
            
               
                        
                     1 The name Thomas came originally from the Hebrew language and signifies
                            a twin. In its earliest use the name was confined to male twins, the feminine form
                            Thomasine, having been applied to girls. In the lapse of time, however, the origin and
                            significance of the name being overlooked, it gradually came to be applied to others, and
                            thus finally came into general use. Adopted by the Greeks and Latins, the name became widely
                            distributed. It was taken into Great Britain at the time of the Introduction of
                            Christianity, about the seventh century. With some slight variations in spelling, the name
                            is now in all modem European languages. Thomas is the English, French and 
                                German
                             form of the name; the French also have Thomassin; Germans, Thomae. The Italian
                            is Tomaso, Thomasis, Tommaseo, Tomasini and Tomitano; the Portuguese, Thoma, Thomaz and
                            Thome; in Latin. the name becomes Thomasins.
                        The derivations or modifications of the name are many, as Thomason, Thomson, Thompson,
                            Tomson, Thomes, Thompkins, Tompkins, Tomkins, Tompkinson, Tomlin, Tomlins and Tomlinson.
                            According to Welsh traditions, the history of the family commences with Urian Rheged, a
                            prince of North Britain, in the sixth century, who was expelled from his principality by the
                            Saxons, and took refuge in Wale The name of the grandfather of this prince, Mierchion
                    
            
            
            
               
                        Gul, appears on an ancient pillar near Langollen. The direct line of the descent, beginning
                            with Urian Rheged, includes Sir Elider Dhu, Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. Among the early
                            ancestors were Sir Rhysap Thomas, born in 1451, who held a place of honor in the household
                            of the Duke of Burgundy. Through a rich wife he acquired vast estates, and became one of the
                            most opulent men of his time. It is said that he had 1,900 tenants, and upon short notice
                            could bring into the field 5,000 armed men. He enlarged Carew Castle, which was his favorite
                            residence; he was the proprietor of the lordship of more than a dozen estates.
                        A poet of the day wrote: 
                                "Y Brenin bia'r YUys. Onot sy o ran i Syr
                                    Rhys."
                            
                  
                        Translated: "The king owns the island, except what pertains to Sir Rhys."
                        Tradition has it that it was he who slew Richard III on the field of Bosworth in a
                            hand-to-hand conflict. However that may be, he was knighted upon the field, and many honors
                            were conferred upon him by Henry VII, of whose council he was a member, besides being a
                            commissioner of the King's mines. Sir Rhys ap Thomas had an extant
                            pedigree—the manuscript copy is now in the possession of a member of the Thomas
                            family—going back to Adam; but the historical part of it began with Urian Rheged.
                            This Urian, it may be mentioned, appears in the Arthurian romances as Sir Uriance.
                        Another Sir Rhys Thomas, of a later date, was 80 noted for his bravery that after his death
                            one of the Welsh bards lamented that a "drum had not been covered with his skin,
                            the sound of which alone would always have insured victory to the British." He was
                            created a Knight of the Order of 
                                Bath
                             when it was revived by Henry VII, on the marriage of his son, Prince Arthur, to
                            Katharine of Aragon. At the funeral of Prince Arthur he bore the Prince's banner
                            before his bier.
                        The name of Thomas appears very largely in the history of this country. Nathaniel Thomas was
                            the first of whom there is any record. He came to Virginia in the ship
                            "Temperance" in 1621. Robert and William came to the same state in the
                            ship "America", fourteen years later, and another William Thomas arrived
                            in the same year. Philip Thomas, the progenitor of the southern branch of the family, came
                            from Wales about the middle of the seventeenth century, and settled in 
                                Maryland
                            . He was a Friend and a man of much influence in the colonies.
                        The first Thomas of whom there is any record in New 
                                England
                            , was named William. He came to this country in 1630, and settled at 
                                Plymouth
                            . Previous to 1699 twenty-eight members of the Thomas family came to this
                            country. One William came in the "Mary Ann," another of the same name was
                            chosen assistant to Governor Bradford in 1642. Evan Thomas came to 
                                Boston
                             in 1635 as a master of the ship "William and Francis." Among
                            members of the family who took part in early wars were Nathaniel Thomas, who served as a
                            captain in King Philip's war, and John Thomas, who served as lieutenant, captain
                            and colonel in the French war. At the battle of Bunker Hill he had a command as brigadier
                            general; he was afterwards sent to take charge of military affairs in 
                                Canada
                             as major-general.
                        Philemon Thomas and Thomas Thomas served in the Revolution, one as a major-general of
                            militia, the other in command of a regiment. Isaiah Thomas, L. L. D., of colonial times, was
                            patriot, printer, author, publisher and philanthropist. He was a man of decided opinions,
                            which he always expressed with promptness, and to the point. His granddaughter wrote to ask
                            him if she might learn French. "NO", was the reply, "one tongue
                            is enough for a woman."
                        A cruel fate was that of William Thomas, another early settler, who in 1772 essayed to embark
                            for America from the city of 
                                Bristol
                            . He had large possessions, which he converted into cash. This, together with
                            the clothing for himself and family, he put on board the vessel. Before the day
                        appointed
                    
            
            
            The Thomas family have a good reputation for honesty, frugality and generosity. Some of the older
                    ones were natural mechanics, wheelwrights, millwrights, silversmiths, tinners, blacksmiths, etc.,
                    and all were interested in farming.
            From the ranks of the Welsh Thomas people there have been and are now many who are distinguished for
                    their ability in the Gospel ministry, politics, education and invention.
            Francis, son of John and Molly (Clark) Thomas, of 
                        South Carolina
                    , was born February 19,1781. His wife, Lydia Woodard, was born March 11, 1786.
            He was a pioneer of 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, and entered land north of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, in 1811. He met the hardships and privation of the wild country; among others
                    that 
                  
                            for its sailing, Thomas and his family found to their consternation that the vessel had
                                set sail, but was not yet out of sight. Pursuit was made in a small craft, and signals
                                hoisted, but to no purpose. The vessel was lost sight of and the family left destitute.
                                They, however, obtained credit and came to this country, landing in 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 where they had the "mortification"— as it is
                                set down in the record—f seeing some of their goods in possession, and some
                                of their wearing apparel on the backs of those who had purchased them from the dishonest
                                master of the vessel. They were not able to recover anything.
                            Fortune, however, favored William Thomas in the country of his adoption, And he became a
                                leader among the people. He gave each of his five sons and two daughters a farm and a
                                stone house, won the occasion of their marriages. He also erected a stone meeting house
                                at his own expense. Although the congregation probably assisted him, Mr. Thomas himself
                                worked in finishing the interior of the building. He made the pulpit out of a hollow gum
                                tree, which was laid on a platform. At this time "Elder Thomas," as he
                                was called, for he was often engaged in preaching, was nearly sixty years of age. He
                                always carried his gun and sword to meeting, depositing them at the foot of the pulpit,
                                it being the period of the French and Indian wars.
                            Like Jacob of old, William Thomas had the gift of foretelling his children's
                                fortune. Of his sons, he said all but one would prove Christian men, one would become a
                                preacher, and one would go astray and then come to his end by violence—all of
                                which prediction the future confirmed years after their father's death.
                            No family in the world can claim more distinguished members than that of Thomas.
                            There was Thomas, called Didymus or the Twin, one of the Apostles of Christ; Thomas
                                Aquinas, who has been canonized by the church, which is practically ruled by his
                                theology; Thomas A. Becket; Thomas A. Kempis; Thomasins, Secretary of Philip of 
                                    Spain
                                ; Thomas of Eorcildoure, the Rhymer, who flourished in the thirteenth
                                century, and was the earliest poet of 
                                    Scotland
                                ; Thomasin of Zirklaria, in Tyrol, who lived in the thirteenth century and
                                wrote "Der Walsche Gast," the first great 
                                    German
                                 didactic poem; Elizabeth Thomas, a poetess, who had the honor of being
                                placed conspicuously in Pope's satirical poem, the "Dunciad,"
                                because she had incurred his displeasure.
                            The coat of arms of the family is argent, a chevron, sable between three ravens; crest, a
                                raven with outspread wings. Different members of the family have different crests, lambs
                                and lions being favorite devices.
                        
               
                of going on horseback 30 miles to get breadstuff. A few
                    times with others he fled to 
                        Richmond
                     to the blockhouse during Indian troubles. Although he feared the attacks of the
                    Indians, he held his peace principles too dear not to be preserved at any hazard, even of life,
                    itself. He took the "flint lock" off his gun and hid the gun some distance from
                    the house lest in case of an attack he might be tempted to harm the Indians. He never was molested.
            Farming was his chosen occupation, but being naturally ingenious he turned his hand as occasion
                    demanded to carpenter, shoemaker, cooper, blacksmith, cabinet maker and other work.
            Early in life he made profession of religion and was, during his life, a leading member of the
                    Friends church. His well-known honesty and love of peace gave him very great influence as peacemaker
                    in the church and community. He was one of three men who were the projectors of the great National
                    road from east to west across the country to the Mississippi river.
            Francis Thomas came from 
                        North Carolina
                     in the year 1811, bringing his personal property that he could haul in a wagon drawn by
                    a team of oxen; he walked practically all of the way and camped by the roadside. His wagon was a
                    long box bed with the ends of the floor higher at each end than at the middle and had bows along the
                    entire length covered with canvas, left open in the front with a draw string to close the rear. He
                    was the first of his branch of the Thomas family to cross the Ohio river. His
                    father and most of his family came the next year. He left 
                        North Carolina
                     to get away from the influence of slavery; quite a bit of the way was wildernerr, with
                    wild animals abounding.
            John, son of Francis and Lydia (Woodard) Thomas, was born February 24, 1820.
            He grew to manhood on his father's farm, working in summer and attending school in winter
                    until he was 21, after which he worked for his father one year at $12 per month.
            In September, 1842, he came to Sandcreek township, 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , and was united in marriage to Miss Smithey Newsom, taking his bride to the farm where
                    he resided until  his death. The family traits, honesty,
                    frugality, etc., were carried out in his life.
            He was an earnest advocate of Friends Boarding school, now Earlham college. Before one stone was
                    laid, by mouth and purse he pushed the worthy cause. He not only talked abolition, but his home
                    became a station of the famous "underground railroad," and many black people have
                    been passed on to freedom by his willing help.
            Of rather small stature, but strong muscular power, as evidenced by the way he held one end of the
                    hand spike in the yearly spring log rolling in clearing his own and neighboring farms.
            In politics, a Whig, then a Republican, not as a politician, but using his vote, which, with the
                    Thomas family, was generally on the right side.
            Perhaps his leading passion centered in the church and its activities as observed and taught by the
                    Friends. And never was outward engagement so pressing as to detract from the regular church work.
                    Placed by common consent at the head of his home congregation, he and his wife, coupled with an
                    eldership of over half a century, served faithfully and well.
            John Thomas came to 
                        Bartholomew county
                     in 1842; he and his young wife drove to their new home with their small belongings in a
                    wagon, the wife driving the team while he followed driving the live stock, consisting of a milch
                    cow, a yearling heifer and a sow with seven pigs. The country was mostly covered with timber through
                    which the trail passed. When they stopped for the night they slept in the wagon which was covered
                    with canvas, over bows the length of the wagon box, the live stock wits tired enough to eat and lie
                    down and sleep till time to start the following morning.
            Francis W. Thomas very early in life heard the Divine call, "Go ye out into the world and
                    preach My gospel."
            He was naturally gifted in speech and possessed remarkable oratorical powers. He was surrounded in
                    youth by the influences of a godly home, and not only in the home but in the church, as well, his
                    parents, like the patriarchs of old, led the people to know and worship the God of their fathers.
            When grace controlled and developed these natural equipments of his, we have before us a human
                    instrumentality capable 
                    
                  JOHN AND SMITHEY THOMAS
               
                    
                     of doing much. Such, in a great measure, was Francis W. Thomas.
            As a young minister, in the large auditorium of the old Indiana yearly Meeting House at 
                        Richmond
                    , with his winsome personality and eloquent appeals, his power was soon felt, and his
                    far reaching voice drew about him great crowds of people. During the deliberations of the yearly
                    meeting when differences of opinion were sometimes sharply drawn, he perceiving a measure of truth
                    on both sides of the subject, was able to suggest such compromises as were generally adopted by the
                    meeting.
            True to his convictions of the Divine Call, he went from place to place, through the length and
                    breadth of his native state, and other states, telling the good news, at his own expense, for more
                    than sixty years.
            The church of his choice failed to recognize that they that sow spiritual things had a right to reap
                    their carnal things, and that the workman was worthy of his hire. He accepted the situation without
                    grumbling, and with hard knocks when at home, held things together through a reasonably long life.
            Truly his epitaph might be, "I was with you as one that served."
            With the death of John Thomas who died near Azalia, Indiana, January 15, 1913, there passed away one
                    of the most active and interesting personages who did service on the famous and historical
                    "Underground Railroad." In connection with his death it is timely to relate some
                    of the most inter, esting features of the "road", showing how the system operated
                    in Indiana and in this section. The incidents given below are told by Luke and Clark Thomas, sons of
                    the deceased.
            When the escaping slaves came to the Thomas farm they would be hidden in the fields during the day
                    and their meals furnished them. They traveled mostly in the fall when the weather was warm and
                    sometimes they would live on roasting ears which they would cook themselves. At night, when the
                    slaves were ready to continue their flight, father would direct them straight northward and they
                    would follow the road which goes straight north from Azalia through East 
                        Columbus
                     until they came to the 
                        Cambridge
                     branch of the old J. M. & I. rail-  road.
                    Then they were told to follow the track until they came to 
                        Carthage
                    , where the next station of the "Underground" was located. This
                    distance would make it necessary for the slaves to provide for themselves during two nights in
                    transit.
            Father had a rigid rule that no fleeing negro would be permitted to tell his name, or whence he came,
                    or how his master had treated him before his escape. The purpose of this rule was that his own
                    conscience might be clear so that should a slave-owner arrive and inquire about the escaped slave,
                    he could truthfully say he did not know.
            Sometimes there would be one negro alone and again they would come to his farm in parties. Just
                    before the War they began to arrive in bunches and sometimes as many as a dozen would be at his
                    house at once.
            Luke remembers that one morning when he was a boy, he got up in the morning as usual and when he came
                    down stairs to put on his boots he discovered that the whole room was full of negroes, the escaping
                    crowd being made up of men, women and children. It was on a New Year's morning and the
                    party had arrived in the night from another station which was located below 
                        Vernon
                    . In the crowd was one young mother who had given birth to a babe three days before at
                    the other station below 
                        Vernon
                    . The mother asked our mother to keep her child, but of course, mother could not do
                    that. The party proceeded on north that night, although the snow lay deep upon the ground.
            Many of the slaves were furious and were resolved not to be taken back to their masters under any
                    consideration. Two strong negro men arrived one night and were armed. One had a big hickory hoop
                    pole and the other had a corn knife, ground sharp. When asked what the weapons were for they
                    replied: "Massa, we alls not gwine back."
            At one time a negro came who had been shot in the back of the neck. He wore a heavy hickory shirt; it
                    was saturated with blood which had dried and become stiff and it continually sawed on his wound like
                    a rope. Father gave him a soft shirt of his own and sent him on to the north. He then took the
                    bloody shirt and crammed it into a hollow tree in the woods. Soon afterwards, Luke Thomas was
                    hunting rab-  bits in the woods and his dog treed a rabbit in
                    the same hollow tree and dug out the bloody shirt. He carried it to the house and revealed what he
                    thought was a great mystery. Of course his father and mother appeared as badly puzzled as himself.
                    But later, as he grew older, he understood.
            Another incident occurred at a time when father and mother were away from home attending a quarterly
                    meeting at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, and Uncle James Newsom, who was mother's brother, and Luke Thomas,
                    were left in charge of the home. The trains on this "Underground Railroad" were
                    not run according to regular schedule, but were piloted by a colored man who lived near 
                        Seymour
                    , and who would, when a fleeing negro came his way, leave his home with the negro after
                    night and make the trip as far as our home leaving his charge there and returning home before
                    daybreak; thus no one would know he had been away from home during the night. On this particular
                    occasion while father and mother were away from home, late one night, Uncle James heard a call from
                    outside and promptly answered it, but the response not being familiar to the pilot, a subdued
                    conversation was heard in the dark. After a while the call was repeated in a softer tone and again
                    Uncle James answered it, asking what was wanted, but the response from outside was, "I
                    don't know your voice, sah." Uncle James assured them that all was well and after
                    a few minutes' talk they were convinced that friends had charge of the house in
                    father's absence, and the negro was taken in and cared for as usual and next night, after
                    full instructions had been given, he was started on northward. On the following morning, while Uncle
                    James was attending to watering the stock in the barnyard he saw a clod of dirt strike the ground
                    near him. He could see no one. Suddenly another clod struck the earth. Still no one. Then suddenly
                    down a corn row in the adjoining field he was a negro. "Mama," he called,
                    "I got lost gwine up north." It was a negro who had come back, after starting
                    north the night before. He directed him again and he left the second time. Now it happened that
                    Luke, at this time, had a very sore foot due to an injury received playing football. Two weeks
                    afterward father heard from his sister, who lived in 
                    
                        Hamilton county
                     and she wanted to know how Luke's foot was. He knew then that the negro had
                    arrived here.
            One negro came to father's home while the corn in the fields was ready for roasting, and as
                    usual he hid in the corn. It was arranged that he would be at a certain stump when the bell rang for
                    dinner, to get a noon lunch. Now father was the owner of a hound dog that followed to the field.
                    While on the way the dog engaged in a race with a hare, making the usual hound music. The negro
                    heard him and became alarmed, thinking of blood hounds. Then there was a negro on the run from one
                    side of the field to the other till finally when he saw father was at the stump he ventured up,
                    scared as near white as a full blooded negro could be; also out of breath.
            At another time when one was harbored at Uncle John Hall's, a neighbor, there came a party
                    of slave hunters to his house and proposed to enter and search the premises. Uncle John met them at
                    the door and gave them to understand that to search his premises they must be provided with a proper
                    warrant. Then then retired to Azalia to an officer to comply with the terms.
            After they left Uncle John sent the negro through the woods, a quarter of a mile to
                    father's; while the search was in progress at Uncle John's father sent the negro
                    to the river bottoms where the weeds and undergrowth were thick, and gave him instructions as to
                    getting out. He started north after dark. (The negro left without lunch.) While father was hiding
                    the negro, Uncle John was going over his premises with the hunters, as he told them, to see that
                    they did not take anything that did not belong to them. After they had examined all the beds,
                    closets, garret and every where a negro could hide in the house and failed to find him, Uncle John
                    told them to look in the clock (wall sweep), then to look in the cook stove, thus ridiculing them
                    and killing time. They then went to the barn and looked, and made a similar examination of the crib
                    and all other buildings, but failed to find their Prey.
            It is not known whether or not any of these negroes lost their lives on their way to freedom. There
                    was a negro found  in the woods northeast of 
                        Columbus
                     that had been shot to death. No one seemed to know who he was; and as there were no
                    negroes living in the neighborhood, it is presumed that he was a runaway slave. An unwritten law
                    allowed no negro to stop in 
                        Bartholomew county
                    .
            The above incidents serve to show the manner of conducting the work, which was kept up from about the
                    year 1842 near the beginning of the Civil war.
         
         
         
            Colonel Francis Vigo1
            
            BY A. B. MCKEE, 
                        Vincennes
                    
            
            On March 1, 1874, the following copy, "Published by Request," was printed, which no
                    doubt will be of intense interest to hundreds of citizens in this community who are interested in
                    the history of 
                        Old Vincennes
                    . Following is a copy of the original writing, headed with a big head line entitled
                    "Western History."
            In the Weekly Times of October 17th, you published a communication from the pen of
                    D. E. H. with the caption as follows: Published by request, "Western History,"
                    Col. Francis Vigo, Correspondence 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    Herald, 
                        Vincennes
                    , Ind., March 1, 1874. Signed at the close, "D. E. H."
            To say that the above statements which follow the caption are wholly devoid of truth would not be
                    entirely correct but it certainly is a forcible reminder of the old anecdote of the trader and the
                    Indian. The trader sold the Indian a deer which he had killed, telling the Indian where he would
                    find 
                  
                     1 The following article was furnished the editor by Frank Foulks of 
                                Vincennes
                            . It contains so much information concerning Colonel Vigo that it is printed as
                            given. The letter by Mr. Foulks is explanatory and is given in this note: 
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    VINCENNES,
                                 
                                            November 14th, 1923.
                              DEAR ESAREY:-
                              You may recall me speaking to you about an old newspaper clipping concerning
                                            Francis Vigo written by my grandfather, A. B. McKee, which my mother found
                                            among her papers a few weeks ago. The article was reprinted in the 
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Commercial last week. Thinking you might me interested in
                                            it, provided you have not already received it from some other source, I am
                                            sending you a copy. This letter was published in 1874 in reply to an article
                                            in some newspaper to which my grandfather took exceptions. The letter
                                            contains many interesting facts, most of which I was already familiar with.
                                            The most interesting thing to me is his statement that Vigo was born in
                                            Northern 
                                                Italy
                                            , as I think it has been generally understood that he was born
                                            in the Island of Sardinia of Spanish parentage. Grandfather may be wrong in
                                            this, but I am disposed to place a great deal of credence in anything he
                                            might have said concerning Col. Vigo. He lived with him for a number of
                                            years and was of mature age, about twenty-eight years, when he died and
                                            would have a good recollection of the circumstances. He was in the prime of
                                            life when this letter was written, and he had a remarkable memory for such
                                            things even after he was past ninety years o fage. I would like to read the
                                            article he is answering.
                              With best regards, I am
                              
                                            Fraternally yours.
                                            FRANK D. FOULKS
                                        
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                     it, but the trader failed to find the deer at the designated
                    spot and he accused the Indian of falsehood whereupon the Indian inquired, "Did you find
                    the prairie?" "Yes," said the trader. "Did you find the
                    tree?" The trader answered in the affirmative. "Oh, well," replied the
                    Indian, "two truths and one lie is pretty good for an Indian."
            The reverse of this would apply better to said correspondent-that is, two false statements to one
                    truth.
            To itemize and correct all the false statements therein would require more time and space than I feel
                    disposed to give it.
            Colonel Francis Vigo was born in the northern part of 
                        Italy
                    ; the exact year of his birth he did not know. Owing to family troubles he left his
                    parents when a boy and passed over into 
                        Spain
                    , where for some time he was engaged in packing goods across the mountains on the backs
                    of mules (a muleteer), during which time he formed the acquaintance of the gentleman who was
                    appointed governor of the Spanish possessions in North America, with whom he came to this country,
                    not as a private secretary nor in any way connected with the Spanish army, but as a partner of the
                    governor, for purposes of trade, the governor being a secret partner, owing, doubtless, to his
                    official position.
            At the time of Clarks campaign, Col. Vigo's headquarters were in 
                        St. Louis
                    , entertaining—in common with his countrymen—a warm sympathy for
                    the American cause as opposed to Great Britain. While Clark was at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , he (Vigo) with others visited the camp of Clark. Clark at the time was absent. With
                    his peculiar trait in noticing things, he saw that something was wrong but knew not what it was.
                    Taking the officer in command at the time to one side he said to him: "What is the matter?
                    Things do not look right somehow." The officer replied that "they were in trouble;
                    their expedition was about to fail for want of supplies; they were out of everything and could get
                    no credit with the people." Col. Vigo said to him: "Buy what you want; give orders
                    on me and I will pay for them."
            On Clark's return to camp he was informed of Colonel Vigo's proposition. He was
                    cheered, his hopes revived, and  in a short time—Col.
                    Vigo's proposition having been accepted—a satisfactory (not a fraudulent)
                    agreement was entered into between General Clark and Colonel Francis Vigo, and the agreement was
                    faithfully carried out by the contracting parties so far as it was in their power to do so, and no
                    fraud was intended or practiced as D. E. H. has stated. General Clark would have suffered his right
                    arm to be loosed from its socket before he would have been a party to a fraud on Colonel Vigo, his
                    bosom friend. Under the agreement Colonel Vigo paid out on Clark's order about
                    $16,000, for which Colonel Vigo received duplicated bills of exchange drawn on Oliver
                    Pollock, agent of the state of 
                        Virginia
                    , at 
                        New Orleans
                    , where Clark fully expected Colonel Vigo would get his pay.
            But in that they were both disappointed, as there was no money in the agent's hand to pay
                    bills presented. One of the bills for $500 Colonel Vigo sold for less 'than
                    one-fourth its face; another for $50, in a passion he destroyed and in the end the
                    balances were all lost. I have a faint recollection of having seen some of them about fifty years
                    ago. Only one of them could be traced up, and that was the one on which the present claim is based,
                    now pending in the Court of Claims. Colonel Vigo's example in extending credit to General
                    Clark was soon followed by other traders. General Clark having his wants all supplied as to
                    provisions, etc., commenced planning for an advance upon 
                        Vincennes
                    , but before proceeding he wanted to learn something as to the disposition of the
                    inhabitants, the situation and condition of the fort and the strength of the garrison. For the
                    purpose of obtaining the information wanted, Colonel Vigo came to 
                        Vincennes
                    . He reached the west bank of the Wabash at the ford a short distance below town, about
                    sunset, but not wishing to enter the village until it became darker, he alighted from his horse,
                    hitched him, and was seated on the bank viewing the river, which he expected soon to ford, when
                    'two men, unobserved by him, approached and laying their hands on his shoulder said,
                    "You are a prisoner," when, springing to his feet, he replied, "I am your
                    prisoner but hands off—don't touch me!"
            He was taken across the river in a canoe and while crossing he took from his pocket a letter (which
                    was the secret of  his refusing to be handled by the soldiers
                    and which would have hanged him had it fallen into Governor 
                        Hamilton
                    's hands), which, biting off in pieces, he chewed up and spit the pulp into the
                    river and by the time he reached the eastern shore his letter was all gone and he breathed free
                    again. He was held a prisoner for three weeks, having the full liberty of the fort and village. As
                    to the two Frenchmen being with him, as stated by D. E. H., it is all a mistake. Two British
                    soldiers were all the escort he had in entering the fort. At the end of three weeks, having obtained
                    all the information he desired, he said to Governor 
                        Hamilton
                    : "Why do you keep me here? I am not an American but am a Spanish subject and
                    my business requires me at home." The Governor replied: "You may go upon condition
                    that you speak to no one on your way home of the conditions of things here." Colonel Vigo
                    gave the promise (and, as he said, kept it to the letter), mounted his horse and took the trail
                    direct for 
                        St. Louis
                    . He reached home on the evening of the third day, I think, and rested over night and in
                    the morning, having washed, shaved and eaten his breakfast, he remounted his horse (not a canoe),
                    rode down to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and gave General Clark all the information he had obtained and there his connection
                    with Clark closes.
            As to his joining the army, "marching with the Spartan band, wading streams, feeling the
                    pangs of hunger and cold, and equally sharing with the common soldiers and performing a military
                    strategy, etc., it is all bosh, nay worse, it is an attempt to rob General Clark of the praise which
                    rightfully belonged to him and which Colonel Vigo would spurn with disdain if he were living.
            Colonel Vigo had merit enough of his own without his friends washing to have General Clark robbed of
                    his just meed of praise on Vigo's account. As to the claims of Colonel Vigo, his mistake
                    was in seeking redress of the 
                        United States
                     through congress instead of 
                        Virginia
                    , through her courts. The claim as now pending is properly before the Court of Claims
                    and it is hoped will soon reach a favorable 'termination.
            D. E. H. says: "In the latter part of Colonel Vigo's life he was defrauded out of a
                    large portion of his land by speculators."  The writer
                    uses the word defrauded too freely and uses it where it makes a false impression. Colonel Vigo lost
                    none of his lands by speculators in the latter part of his life. But in the prime of his life, by an
                    unfortunate partnership with the Miami Fur Company, he met with heavy losses. The company was to
                    furnish the goods and Colonel Vigo was to buy the pelts. They charged him with the goods furnished
                    but failed to give him credit for the pelts he returned and in the final settlement of their
                    accounts nearly all of his land passed into the hands of the Miami Fur Company. As to the claims on
                    Survey No. 5 or the piece in the upper end of town, the heirs have nothing to do with it, as it
                    passed into the hands of speculators more than a year ago, and it is they and not the heirs who have
                    done all the lawing and I learn that their prospect is good for getting the land and obtaining from
                    the government a patent therefor.
            The latter portion of D. E. H.'s article is but a tissue of falsehood and misrepresentation.
                    It is not true that his friends deserted him in the time of need. It is not true that in his last
                    days "he was cared for by a few poor, honest laborers and farmers, comrades of his in the
                    great struggle for independence."
            It is not true that L. L. Watson, of the Junction House, contributed aid and support to make his last
                    days happy and comfortable. Colonel Vigo had his room and his home with me on the farm where I now
                    live, but through the persuasion of friends he moved to town and for a time lived with Mrs. Betsy
                    LaPlante, whom he had raised from childhood as one of his own family. My brother, Francis Vigo
                    McKee, returning from 
                        Georgia
                     with his wife and settling in 
                        Vincennes
                    , the Colonel lived the latter portion of his life with him where he was abundantly
                    supplied with all the comforts of life and was in his last hours watched over and nursed and cared
                    for by kind friends, loving hearts, and no want of his was left unsupplied that was in the power of
                    man to supply. I stood at his bedside and saw him breathe his last.
            I would advise D. E. H. when he undertakes to write history again to be a little more careful from
                    whom he receives his information and be careful that it does not come from  some interested speculator who has an axe to grind and be careful to
                    make no statement that would reflect upon the living friends and relatives as well as those whom he
                    would wish to benefit.
            A. B. McKee
            Published in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Weekly Times, November 14, 1874.
         
         
         
            A Discourse Delivered at the Funeral of Rev. James Aikman Camahan. of 
                        Dayton
                    , Ind.
            BY JOSEPH F. TUTTLE, President of
                    Wabash College.1
            
            I have selected two verses of the Holy Scripture as an appropriate text for this discourse, which is
                    designed as a memorial of the late venerable and beloved father, the Rev. James Aikman Carnahan,
                    known widely as 
                        "FATHER CARNAHAN OF DAYTON."
                        And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace, thou shalt be buried in a good old age. Gen. 15:15
                        Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in his season. Job. 5.26.
                  
                    
            
            Both these verses express a great truth very beautifully, that God loves a good man, and often shows
                    this by bestowing on him "a good old age," by letting him come to his grave in a
                    full age like a sheaf of ripe wheat that is ready for the garner.
            Some people speak contemptuously of this principle with its promised blessing, as if neither is of
                    any practical value. They even quote the description of old age as given by Solomon in the 12th Ecclesiastes, as proving their assertion true.
            I admit that picture to be a very gloomy one. It almost makes one shudder to read it. And well it
                    might, for it is 
                  
                            
                        1 A word of apology for this discourse is due on this occasion. It
                                may seem to be asking of you. young men, an unusual indulgence to listen to a discourse
                                concerning an old man with whom very few were personally acquainted.
                            But in the first place it is not straining a point for us who just now constitute the
                                working center of the College which this man helped to found, to pay a deserved tribute
                                to his memory. In so doing we act officially and representatively for all the men who
                                have helped to build up Wabash College, and also all those who have been educated in its
                                halls.
                            And in the second place as we learn some of the best lessons of life by 1ooking. at the
                                lives of men, or at life actually lived, it is to be hoped that it will be a source of
                                improvement to the young, as well as those older, to look on the life of a venerable and
                                good man who has "come to his grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn
                                cometh in his season." This is published in the Hagashe as an example of the
                                better class of old time funeral orations.
                        
               
                     the description of the old age of a bad man, a man that has
                    lived a bad, sensual life, and has grown old in sin.
            But certainly the Lord was not promising to Abraham such a dreary doom, when he said "Thou
                    shalt go to thy fathers in peace, thou shalt be buried in a good old age." Surely the
                    picture which Solomon drew of the closing scenes of a wicked old man's life was not meant
                    to contradict that which Eliphaz drew of a good old man's life when he said "Thou
                    shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in his season." Nay,
                    Solomon himself had said when, as a young man, he wrote the Proverbs,
                    "The hoary head is a crown of glory if it be found in the way of righteousness;"
                    and again, "the beauty of old men is the grey head." So also the Psalmist
                    expressed it when he not only said, "the righteous shall flourish like the palm tree; he
                    shall grow like a cedar in 
                        Lebanon
                    ," but, he added, as if stating a very beautiful and desirable fact that should
                    mark the righteous man, "Those that he planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in
                    the courts of our God; they shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and
                    flourishing."
            Let me illustrate this for a moment: Is there anything more beautiful than the picture of the late
                    venerable Dr. Skinner of 
                        New York
                    , as for the last time one evening he stood among his brethren of the Chi Alpha just as
                    they were about to part with a song and prayer? There stood the sweet old man, with beaming face,
                    almost "as it had been the face of an angel," as he repeated from memory all the
                    hymn of which I will repeat the closing stanza: 
                        My Jesus as thou wilt! All shall be well with me; Each changing future scene, I
                            gladly trust to thee; Straight to my home above I travel calmly on, And sing in life or
                            death, My Lord, Thy will be done!
                    
            
            Only a week before his own death he wrote these words concerning the death of another grand old man,
                    the Rev. Albert Barnes, whose funeral he had just been attending: 
                    
                        What a glorious death was that of Albert Barnes! It holds me wondering and praising God for
                            his singular grace to that remarkable man. Is it possible that such a death is to be mine?
                            Is such a mercy in reserve for me? Pray for me, my dear friend, that die, when, or where, or
                            how I may, I may glorify God in dying.
                    
            
            And in a few days he was dying, but "his lips broke forth in the most wonderful expressions
                    of love to his Savior." And the burden of all his words was this, "My Jesus, as
                    thou Wilt!"
            Why, my friends, there could be no propriety whatever in reading Solomon's description of
                    the dreary old age of a bad man at the funeral of one who was as "Paul the aged,"
                    or "John the aged," or such an old man as I have just named who, as he was
                    entering the deep shadow, exclaimed, "My Jesus as thou wilt," and who, when he had
                    almost disappeared from human sight, was still heard murmuring the same expression of loving
                    submission, "My Jesus, as thou wilt!"
            Now, my friends, I did not propose to preach a funeral sermon, but only to briefly show you in a very
                    imperfect way why it seems to me very beautiful when an aged saint goes to his fathers in peace, and
                    is buried in a good old age; why I would as soon grieve and break my heart as I look out over the
                    ripened wheat which the reaper is gathering as to grieve and break my heart when I see an aged saint
                    "coming to his grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in his season."
            The leading dates in his life which occasions these remarks are these:
            The Rev. James Aikman Carnahan was the descendent of Scotch-Irish ancestors who settled in
                    Pennsylvania about 1740. His grandfather settled in Virginia and followed teaching. In 1790 his
                    grandparents removed to 
                        Kentucky
                    . He himself was born in Nicholas county, 
                        Kentucky
                    , December 2, 1802, and died at 
                        Dayton
                    , Indiana, January 19, 1879, in the 77th year of his age.
            In September, 1817, he became a Christian and united With the Presbyterian church of
                            
                  Concord, Kentucky
               . He was then not quite 15 years old.
            In 1818 his father removed to Davies county, Indiana, and cleared up a farm. In this hard work he was
                    assisted by his  son James three years. And the hard work
                    matured him into a man of very remarkable physical strength.
            In December, 1821, he began in earnest the attempt to realize the high destiny to which his parents
                    had devoted him in baptism, and to which he had devoted himself when he was converted to God. With a
                    view to preparing himself for the gospel ministry, at the time named—December,
                    1821—he began his studies in the academy of Livonia, Indiana, taught by the Rev. William
                    W. Martin. He prosecuted there his studies with great vigor three years, and in January, 1825,
                    placed himself under the instruction of the Rev. Dr. Blackburn and Prof. 
                        Butler
                     at 
                        Louisville
                    . He remained there a little more than a year, pursuing collegiate studies. In May,
                    1826, he went to 
                  Auburn, New York
               , and in September entered the Theological seminary,
                    over which Dr. James Richards presided. He held this great preacher and theologian in the most
                    profound veneration. For three years he remained in the seminary, not missing an exercise of any
                    kind.
            July 1, 1829, he was licensed and also ordained, sine titulo, at East
                            
                  Geneva, New
                            York
               , and at once returned to Indiana. He preached at various places in
                    southern Indiana until November when he visited 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and 
                        LaFayette
                    . Having entered into an arrangement to supply the church at 
                        LaFayette
                    , he returned to Davies county and on the 30th of January, 1830, was married to Miss
                    Isabella Lynn of Livonia. The next day the young couple began their journey on horseback to 
                        LaFayette
                    , a distance of about 150 miles.
            He began his labors at 
                        LaFayette
                     in February, 1830, and extended his missionary tours in one direction as far as 
                        Monticello
                     where he had several members.
            Among his members at 
                        LaFayette
                     when he was about dissolving his connection with that church were 49 who resided in 
                        Dayton
                    , some seven miles distant. In April, 1834, these were organized into a church, and on
                    the 1st of May he began his labors there. Inasmuch as the new church at 
                        Dayton
                     was composed of members whose pastor he had already been for four years, we may regard
                    his ministry with the 
                        Dayton
                     church as really beginning in February, 1830. Literally it began May, 1834, but really
                    February, 1830. From January,  1847, to April, 1848, he acted as
                    agent for the college, a period of fifteen months. In 1852, against the wishes of his church, he
                    went to 
                        Delphi
                     to minister to that church and one at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , two or three miles away. At the end of four years he returned to his first love at 
                        Dayton
                    , and remained there until his death. For three years past he has been too feeble to
                    preach steadily and yet the church regarded him as a Pastor Emeritus. So that from
                    July 1, 1829, when he was ordained until January 19, 1879, when he died, his entire ministry
                    included 49 years and 7 months. His connection with the 
                        Dayton
                     church, including the 4 years at 
                        LaFayette
                     and deducting his time in service of the college covered nearly forty-four years.
            If we subtract the four years at 
                        LaFayette
                    , the year and a quarter at the college, the four at 
                        Delphi
                    , and the three since he ceased active labor, his labor of thirty-seven solid years in
                    the one church remains. But his church at 
                        Dayton
                     allows no such deduction for the last three years. His ministry there is forty-one
                    years.
            The fact is as honorable to the church as it is to him, and it is a conspicuous and remarkable fact
                    that shall lose nothing by time.
            When our venerated father Carnahan began his labors in this region it was a wilderness. 
                        Crawfordsville
                     was only eight years old, 
                        LaFayette
                     five, 
                        Indianapolis
                     ten, 
                        Terre Haute
                     ten, 
                        Delphi
                     two, 
                        Logansport
                     a trading post of three years old with thirty or forty families, and in the entire
                    county beside, eight or ten families more. "Out of 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     there were not in Indiana north of the 
                        Wabash
                    , three hundred inhabitants."
            The pioneer ministers who planted Presbyterian churches in the wilderness were not ordinary men.
                    Among them were John Ross and James Chute at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Martin M. Post at 
                        Logansport
                    , James Crawford at 
                        LaFayette
                    , Carnahan at 
                        Dayton
                    , Edmund O. Hovey at Coalcreek, James Thomson at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , John S. Thomson at 
                        Waveland
                    , Ransom Hawley at Putnamville, John Finley Crow at 
                        Hanover
                    , James H. Johnson at 
                        Madison
                    , William W. Martin at Livonia, John McElroy Dickey at 
                        Washington
                    , Stuart at 
                        Rushville
                    , Caleb Mills  at Wabash College, and others of whom
                    these are fair representatives, men eminently fitted to do a hard and difficult work. They endured
                    hardness as good soldiers, and the record of what they endured and accomplished cannot fail to
                    excite both our admiration and gratitude.
            But I must not dwell longer on these abundant labors in the planting of churches, building of meeting
                    houses, the preaching of the word in the destitute places in the midst of great hardships. In these
                    labors our deceased Father Carnahan was not a whit behind any of his noble peers. The fruits of his
                    labor not only at 
                  LaFayette, Delphi
                and 
                        Dayton
                    , but in his frequent and extensive missionary journeys, the Omniscient alone can value,
                    but we know enough to be sure that these fruits were abundant and precious.
            And here I may be indulged in a brief reference to the man of whom I am now speaking. In person he
                    was six feet in stature and very erect. He was a large and muscular man, and famous for his strength
                    and agility. He was a clear and logical thinker and ready to give a reason for his opinions. He was
                    a man of deep religious convictions, and was one of the most earnest of preachers. Physically a
                    strong and hardy man, and religiously deep in earnst, it was to him no hardship to traverse large
                    sections of the country at all seasons of the year to preach the gospel he loved and believed. He
                    would ride all day on horseback in the worst weather and over the worst roads and preach with
                    wonderful vigor at night in a cabin, schoolhouse or church. He and James Thomson were "Sons
                    of Thunder" in this wilderness. They often wrought together in sacramental meetings, camp
                    meetings, and protracted meetings, and with great success.
            Whilst in 
                        LaFayette
                     February 21, 1831, he preached a sermon that led the late Rev. Geo. D. Miller to Christ
                    and to a life of great usefulness in the ministry. He one day met a young man, Alexander Lemon, in
                    the street and said to him, "are you a Christian?" And when Mr. L. answered that
                    he was not, said Mr. C. to him with deep emotion, "it is a dreadful thing to be a sinner in
                    such a world and refuse to become a Christian!" The result was his conversion, and a
                    faithful ministry until his death.
            
            It would be easy to name churches he planted, revivals he conducted, and to multiply incidents
                    illustrating his unusual energy and success in his chosen vocation, but I must desist.
            Were I to rest here the record would be a remarkable one, but I must add one item which will make his
                    name to abide in history as long as the college he aided be found. I admit the importance of his
                    work as a preacher, a pastor, and an organizer of churches. We cannot readily exaggerate the
                    importance of his mission in these respects. But when James and John Thomson, Edmund O. Hovey, James
                    A. Carnahan and John M. Ellis with the Elders John Gilliland, McConnell and William Robinson met to
                    consider the question of founding a Christian college, when after a devout and careful examination
                    of all the facts they resolved to found a college, and when in token of their dependence on God and
                    also as the sign that they were devoting all they did to God, they knelt in the snow on the spot on
                    which they proposed to build that college-our venerable Father Carnahan and his associates did the
                    greatest act of their lives. That act will grow more and more illustrious as the years roll away and
                    the institution they founded shall grow stronger and larger in the fulfillment of their beneficent
                    purposes.
            The interesting convention resulting in this great purpose, occurred November 21st, 1832, forty-six
                    years ago, and the same day, Williamson Dunn, Edmund O. Hovey, James Thomson, John S. Thomson, James
                    A. Carnahan, Martin M. Post, Samuel G. Lowry and John Gilliland were elected Trustees of the
                    college. Of these eight men Carnahan and Hovey were continued trustees by repeated re-election until
                    their death. When Father Carnahan died the last survivor of the founders, and of th8 first board of
                    trustees passed away. Most happy were they, especially those who were active in the enterprise, in
                    being honored as the founders, the trustees and the life long friends of Wabash college. And as it
                    seems to me no more appropriate epitaph can be carved on the stone that shall mark the grave of
                    Carnahan than this: A Devout Christian, an able Pioneer Missionary, and one of the Founders of
                    Wabash College!
            Truly he was a noble man in person, noble in mind, noble in purity, noble in Christian love, noble in
                    Christian work,  noble in his calling, noble in what he helped
                    to do for religion and education, noble in his life, and as you look on him in the repose of death
                    you look on one who even in death seems "every inch a man."
            These late years have been telling on the ranks of our Pioneer ministers. Ross, Post, Little,
                    Johnson, Hovey and Carnahan have entered into rest. They lived to see "the wilderness
                    blossom" and "the thirsty land springs of water." They wrought for God
                    and man gloriously, and one by one they have been passing away crowned with blessings both from God
                    and man. One by one they have gone to their fathers in peace, and have been buried in a good old
                    age. We loved and honored them, and yet as we see them coming to the grave in a full age like as a
                    shock of corn cometh in his season, we will not lament.
            As President Edwards says, "Now they have got home; they were never home before."
                    And as John Bunyan says, "I heard the bells of the city ring for joy as they entered
                    it." And as Paul says, "The earthly house of their tabernacle is dissolved and
                    they are in the house of God not made with hands eternal in the heaven." And as Jesus
                    himself said, "Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the
                    foundation of the world."
            And so as we tenderly convey these mortal remains of our friend to the grave, we will recall what he
                    was in life, and what he did, and Whom not having seen he loved, and the eternal heaven to which he
                    has come, we will thank God and take courage.
            "And I heard a voice saying unto me, write ‘blessed are the dead that die in the
                    Lord from henceforth;’ yea, saith the Spirit that they may rest from their labors, and
                    their works do follow them."
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            STATE PUBLICATIONS
            In harmony with the 'tendency in other states Indiana is giving more attention to the
                    character of its state publications. Twenty years ago copy seems to have been furnished the state
                    printer by the ton. Departmental or board reports frequently ran beyond 1,000 pages. The Senate Journal contained as high as 3,000 pages; the Documentary Journal as high
                    as 5,000 pages. Much of this material was and remains historically valuable (though unavailable in
                    the unpaged and unindexed volumes), but a great deal of it was mere duplication or insignificant
                    detail. Most of this printing is now under the jurisdiction of the Legislative Reference Bureau,
                    directed by Charles Kettleborough. The amount of printing is reduced to perhaps one-tenth its former
                    volume and the character improved in about inverse proportion.
         
         
            
               Year Book of the State of Indiana for the Year 1922, by the Legislative
                    Reference Bureau under the direction of Governor Warren T. McCray. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1923, pp. 1239.
            This is the leading state publication and contains the annual review of the state government for the
                    year. It is unnecessary to describe this volume in detail. Each departmental head, each commission,
                    each board and bureau employed, wholly or in part in state service is required to furnish the
                    Legislative Reference Bureau a report of its work. These reports are edited, organized and
                    standardized before being sent to press. The list of officers, duties and the work accomplished are
                    set out together with the cost. The volume compares very favorably with those published in other
                    states—as good as the best. Copies should be preserved in all libraries in the state and
                    especially should it be available to all high school students studying our government. With this
                    volume at hand, and without cost, there is no excuse for the ignorance about our state government.
                    Too many of us know what  it ought to be and do and too few know
                    what it is and is doing. The department of education is right in recommending the Year Book as the
                    best school text for the study of civics.
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL COMMISSION
            When Dr. John W. Oliver resigned as secretary of the Indiana Historical Commission Prof. Harlow
                    Lindley of Earl-ham, former state archivist, was selected to take his place. Besides carrying on the
                    work already begun by Dr. Oliver, Mr. Lindley is making an effort to organize the different
                    historical workers and agencies of the state to secure better co-operation. It is hoped to secure
                    greater permanent results in proportion to the outlay in work and money. Beginning with November,
                    the Commission will publish the Indiana History Bulletin in order to keep those
                    interested posted in what the Commission is doing. Heretofore, the Commission has published
                    occasional bulletins, containing announcements, programs, proceedings and papers. There is grave
                    danger in too many kindred, disconnected publications. From the standpoint of the outstate historian
                    this duplication of titles becomes confusing. Students of history regret, for instance, that the old
                        Pioneer and Historical Collections of Michigan has been discontinued. The same
                    is true with the publications in 
                  Illinois,
                            Virginia, North
                        Carolina
                and 
                        Iowa
                    .
            The Indiana Historical Commission has published during the past year four volumes all credidtable to
                    the state and the Commission. If this work can be kept up we will in time have a respectable
                    historical literature of the state.
         
         
            Indiana Historical Collections XI, Biographical Series I, George W. Julian, by
                    Grace Julian Clarke. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1923, pp. 456.
            As a personal history of an interesting character this is a pleasing and valuable narrative. The
                    style is plain and the story moves on at a uniform gait. There is little philosophising, explanation
                    or defense. It could hardly be expected that hostile criticism would be indulged in by the author.
                    The  author has at her command ample material; how completely or
                    how well she has used it cannot be ascertained. Mr. Julian kept a diary during a large part of his
                    life. The small part of it published is intensely interesting and historically of high value.
            Only a few men have passed through and participated in more significant social and political
                    struggles than Mr. Julian. He successively affiliated with the Whig, Free Soil, Democratic,
                    Know-Nothing, Republican, Liberal Republican, Democratic and Sound Money parties. To say he belonged
                    to any of these parties would hardly be the truth. His Gallic temper never permitted complete
                    fellowship in any organization. He seems to have had a similar experience religiously. He
                    entertained all the movements which agitated the church during his life, without embracing either.
                    His virile mind found faults and objections to all organizations and his imperious will made it
                    impossible fully to recognize any authority. He seems to have taken active side on all public
                    questions without ever submitting to the discipline necessary for accomplishment. His championships
                    often led him into strange company as when he supported Van Buren in 1848, Tilden in 1876, 
                        Cleveland
                     in 1884 and virtually McKinley in 1896. A man of less earnestness would have enjoyed
                    the humor of these situations. As a subject of study in political conduct his life is most
                    suggestive. Could he have accomplished more by conforming to party discipline and working in
                    harness, by remaining loyally with the Whig and Republican parties, is a question which of course
                    cannot be determined. Was the Abolition agitation a bankruptcy of statesmanship or was it wise, are
                    questions involved. Did these vitriolic agitators, precipitate a bloody civil war from what with
                    more patient statesmanship would have passed by as a peaceful revolution are questions which history
                    will be required to give an opinion on later. Whether he helped the statesmanship of 
                        Lincoln
                     or hindered it. Whatever the answer to these, Mr. Julian stands out as a bold
                    uncompromising knight errant. He began the battle before he was of age and died after a 60 year war,
                    pen in hand. His enemies were always bad men, rebels, assassins, cutthroats, sinners of all grades
                    and conditions. In  this respect he was utterly unlike Webster,
                            
                  Clay, Washington
                or 
                        Lincoln
                    , and more resembled the frontier preacher. While a volume of his papers including his
                    diary would perhaps be more valuable, the present small volume is a welcome addition to our too
                    scant political literature.
         
         
            Vol. III, Indiana World War Records, A Sergeant's Diary in the World
                    War, by ELMER FRANK STRAUB. Published
                    by Indiana Historical Commission, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1923. Price $1.50.
            Sergeant Straub was an enlisted man in the 150th Field artillery, Forty-second or Rainbow division.
                    He was a member of the commander's detail. He was usually on scout detail and his special
                    work was to sketch the sector occupied by the battery and lay the guns. The battery was mobilized at
                    Fort Benjamin Harrison July, 1917, and arrived in 
                        France
                     October 31 following. It was placed on the front at Chateau Thierry July 22, 1918, and
                    supported the battle line all the way through Vaux Woods, Robecourt, Seicheprey, Troyon, Montfaucon
                    Cierges and Harricourt.
            As a close-up picture of the Argonne battle it is unexcelled. The artillery scouts were just back of
                    the front line and while they did not see the first line struggle they were continually in the
                    wreckage of the battle. Villages were still burning, men, dead, wounded or dying, were in sight at
                    all times. This is a day-today account and holds ones attention like an oral tale. The endless
                    detail of army life, the hardships of the front, the rustling for food and supplies are told in a
                    way never even hinted in the histories.
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society Publication, Vol. VII, No. 10, Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        —Lawyer, by Charles W. Moores, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Bobbs-Merrill Company. Reprinted from the proceedings of the American Bar
                    Association, 1910, and enlarged, pp. 52.
            Mr. Moores has tried to present a particular view of certain phases of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life stressing especially his life as  a
                    lawyer. Many students of 
                        Lincoln
                     have had little opportunity to come in contact with facts concerning his life as a
                    lawyer. For instance few people are aware that 
                        Lincoln
                     became the recognized leader of the Illinois bar, as Mr. Moore points out.
            The author began his story with a reference to the second inaugural, then he briefly reviews his
                    boyhood and education showing particularly his love for the study of law.
            He states that 
                        Lincoln
                     had the same educational opportunities that other Hoosier boys had. In contrast to this
                    opinion many authors stress the statement that 
                        Lincoln
                     had no educational opportunities and insist or attempt to make the ordinary student
                    believe that his opportunities were below those of his youthful comrades. Passing rapidly over the
                    period of his legal preparation he elaborates on his ability in his chosen field, specially his
                    legal practice and his speech-making trips. The author however need not have reflected on 
                        Washington
                    's ability, in trying to excuse 
                        Lincoln
                     from mistakes made in writing out his pleadings in law cases.
            It is set forth very plainly and forcibly that 
                        Lincoln
                     refused to take the cases which he did not think right and the author seems to prove
                    this by the evidence he cites; however, it has been ascertained that 
                        Lincoln
                    's cases were of many kinds and that like other lawyers he was not averse to
                    taking cases that were questionable.
            The author has a good style and presents about the right amount of humor to keep the reader in a
                    happy mood. He is clear, concise and the facts are so worked in as not to become boresome. On the
                    whole the pamphlet is valuable not only to students of 
                        Lincoln
                     and history but to the general reader as well.
            RALPh H. OGLE
            
         
         
            
               Handbook of Indiana GEOLOGY, by Drs. W. N. LOGAN, E. R. CUMMINGS, C. A. MALOTT, S. S. VISHER, W. M. TUCKER and J. R. REEVES,
                    Published by the Department of Conservation, Indiana, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1922, pp. 1120.
            For a number of years the members of the Department of Geology, Indiana University, have been
                    preparing the manuscript for this volume. The subject was divided so that  each contributor worked in his special field. Part I, 58 pages, is
                    devoted to Geography by Dr. Visher; Part 11, 198 pages, is devoted to Physiography by Dr. Malott;
                    Part 111, 146 pages, is devoted to Hydrology by Dr. Tucker; Part IV, 168 pages, is devoted to
                    Nomenclature and Description of the Geological Formations of Indiana by Dr. Cummings, and Part V,
                    550 pages, is devoted to Economic Geology of Indiana by Dr. Logan.
            The volume represents investigations carried on by different men during the last 20 years. Active
                    preparation of manuscript and illustrations has required about two years. There are about 300 maps,
                    tables and illustrations, many of them full page and some folded. An envelope in the back of the
                    volume contains three maps, one a map of the Coal Field, 19x40 inches, a Topographic map of the
                    state, 24x36 inches, and a Drainage map, 19x28 inches. The Handbook is designed to
                    meet two needs especially, a course of general scientific information concerning the state and to
                    give possible investors reliable information on the mineral resources of the state. Under the
                    heading Geography, Dr. Visher discusses Area, Quality of Land, Climate, Agriculture, Transportation,
                    Population and Manufacturing. Dr. Malott, under Physiography, discusses General Drainage (River
                    basins), Topographic condition (dividing the state into 9 geographical sections), and Physiographic
                    Development (how the land was made). Dr. Tucker, under Hydrology, discusses lakes and rivers from
                    the standpoint of drainage, water power, flood control, irrigation, city water supply, sewage
                    disposal and related topics. Dr. Cummings treats the Geological Formations of the state from a
                    strictly scientific or strategraphic standpoint. This paper contains an excellent historical review
                    of the work done by geologists in Indiana. A descriptive bibliography of 36 pages, arranged
                    chronologically and alphabetically, containing upwards of 800 titles shows the amount of work done
                    in the Indiana field. No other science has made so good a showing. A comparison will show how
                    insignificant has been the work done in the field of history, though history is perhaps as great a
                    factor in the welfare of the state.
            The Economic Geology of the state as treated by Dr. Logan is a scientific exposition of the mineral
                    resources of the state  taken by counties and smaller
                    localities. Stone, Cement, Coal, Clays, Kaolin, Iron, Lime, Marl, Mineral Waters, Oil, Gas, Peat,
                    Pyrite, Road Materials, Sands, Fertilizers and less valuable products are discussed in order.
            The discussion throughout though strictly scientific is simple and easily understood. Altogether the
                    state has not published a more valuable volume.
         
         
            
               The American Struggle for the British West 
                            India
                         Carrying Trade, by F. LEE BENNS,
                    Assistant Professor of History in Indiana University. Indiana University Studies X, 
                        Bloomington
                    , 1923, pp. 207.
            This book deals with a period the American History from 1815 to 1830. So thoroughly and scholarly did
                    Dr. Benns do this work that the American Historical Association awarded him the Justin Winsor Prize
                    in American History for 1920.
            In order to explain properly our relations with Great Britain, concerning the West 
                        India
                     trade, the author went back to the year 1783; he showed that the war of 1812 did not
                    settle this question with Great Britain, and that the real trouble came up during the period of 1815
                    to 1830. During that time we had one of our greatest diplomatic contests with Great Britain.
            In discussing this contest the author has preserved an impartial attitude showing how unreasonable
                    our government was at times; on the other hand, he also shows how unreasonable the British ministers
                    were, at certain other times.
            ' A great deal of space is devoted to explaining the meaning of diplomatic notes and the
                    interviews held between the diplomats of the two countries. Newspapers are frequently quoted to show
                    trend of public opinion concerning the different agreements, and legislative acts by each nation.
            The author seems to have used practically all source material available on this subject. The
                    explanations are usually clear. The political bearing this question had on the election of 1828 is
                    emphasized. The book is clear, interesting, unbiased, well-organized and deals with a subject and
                    period that have so far received little emphasis in American history.
            G. S. RUST
            
         
         
         
            
               The Economic Geography of Indiana, by Stephen S. Visher, Associate-Professor of
                    Geography, Indiana University. 
                        New York
                    , 1923, pp. 225.
            Economic Geography is the study of the production of a surplus of the different commodities in a
                    given region and the creation of a market for these elsewhere. It answers the question
                    "What can this region (or any other region) produce if properly developed, and what
                    additional things can it afford to buy from other regions?"
            The things to be considered are: location, climate, natural resources, population, agriculture and
                    industrial development. Dr. Visher has taken these subjects up in order and has gone into detail.
            He deals quite adequately with the climate of Indiana as compared with other states and its
                    variations of temperature the highest and lowest, daily range, summer and winter and the effect the
                    variation has on production. The rainfall, winds, tornadoes and their effects on agriculture and
                    industry are discussed quite fully.
            The natural resources, the minerals, gas, oil, oil shale, building stone, other limestones, clays,
                    iron, marl, peat, gravel, sand and the water power and their connection with the different
                    industries are discussed.
            The population is discussed in regard to distribution and the causes of such distribution.
            Agricultural questions are discussed under general farming, chief crops, special crops, bases of
                    agriculture, climate favoring farming, character of farms (number, size and value) farm homes and
                    lives, farm equipment, crops in comparison with other states, farm and dairy animals, fruit, etc.
            His study of industry is quite extensive in his chapters on industry, manufacturing and commerce. In
                    these chapters he takes up the use of coal, oil, gas, stones (limestone), sand products, glass,
                    coke, iron, petroleum, refining, mineral water, caves and their part in carrying on our different
                    industries.
            L. L. NEWTON
            
         
         
            The state has lost a faithful servant in the resignation of Amos W. Butler, secretary of the State
                    Board of Charities. During the twenty-five years of his service this department  of the state government has become a model among the states. December
                    2, 1922, the friends of Mr. Butler gathered to a dinner in honor of his service. The speeches made
                    on this occasion were gathered into a pamphlet entitled Testimonial to Amos W. Butler.
            Indiana a Century Ago is the title of an address by Everett Sanders, representative in Congress from
                    the Fifth Indiana district, delivered at a banquet of the Indiana Club at the McAlpin Hotel, 
                        New York City
                    , December 12, 1922.
            Duty of a State to enforce the eighteenth Amendment is the title of an argument by Wayne B. Wheeler,
                    Edward B. Dunford and Orville S. Poland. This is an answer to the position taken by the 
                        New York
                     that the enforcement of the Volstead act was of no concern to the state individually.
            Benjamin F. Stuart and John W. Hanna are authors of a 24 page pamphlet on the History of
                    Burnettsville Schools. The story goes back to 1836 when the first schoolhouse was erected at the
                    place. The chief interest attaches to the normal school founded there in 1858 by Joseph L. Baldwin,
                    who later gained distinction as president of the Kirksville, Mo., Normal.
         
         
            
               An Account of 
                            Fulton County
                         From Its Organization, edited by HENRY A. BARNHART, 
                        Dayton
                    , O., 1923, pp. 305.
            This history was edited by Hon. A. Barnhart of 
                        Rochester
                    , Indiana, and ex-congressman from the Thirteenth Indiana district and a life long
                    citizen of 
                        Fulton county
                    . He is a man well qualified to edit such a history—a fact well proven after
                    a close examination of the volume.
            It contains twelve chapters dealing with the geology and topography of the county, its early
                    settlement, its organization, its transportation, its military life, its educational record,
                    manufacturing and commerce, its physicians and public health, church and welfare work, a history of 
                        Akron
                     and Henry town-  ship, written by Mrs. Ina
                    Brundredge, a very capable lady and a life long citizen of the township, and a portion of the book
                    is devoted to biographical history of some of the prominent persons in the county.
            The history contains neither an index or a preface. Many books are being written however in these
                    days without prefaces, but an index to a book is very essential and should be included even in the
                    face of additional cost.
            This county history has done and will do all that a history of this type is supposed to do; namely,
                    give local citizens, who so desire, a chance to give the history of themselves and families to the
                    public in written form, and to preserve the record of the history of the county, as well as to
                    stimulate an interest therein by the residents and citizens of this political unit.
            It contains a photograph of the editor on a front page and a plate between pages forty-eight and
                    forty-nine showing the county courthouse and a memorial tablet made in honor of the 
                        Fulton County
                     Sons who gave their lives in the World War. The book is neatly bound in blue buckram
                    and is of the same style both internally and externally as is the History of Indiana, of which it
                    forms Volume III. The 
                        Fulton County
                     History is made to sell in a set with this particular History of Indiana.
            C. L. KUHN
            
         
         
            
               History of 
                            Vigo County
                         From Its Organization, by WILLIAM F. CRONIN, 
                        Dayton
                    , O., 1922, pp. 496.
            The actual settlement of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and so the local history of the county begins in 1816, the same year as the admission
                    of the state. However the locality had been the scene of an Indian battle in earlier days and nearby
                    is the site of Fort Harrison one of the most historic spots in territorial Indiana. The editor, Mr.
                    Cronin, has been in 'the newspaper business at 
                        Terre Haute
                     for 20 years and is well acquainted with its history. The volume is fully up to
                    standard. The author has corrected some errors in earlier histories and brought the account down to
                    the present. There are 335 pages of biographies. These as a rule constitute the most valuable part
                    of a county history and make such histories worth while from the public standpoint.
         
         
         
            
               History of 
                            St. Joseph County
                         From Its Organization, by JOHN B. STOLL, 
                        Dayton
                    , O., 1923, pp. 565.
            This volume follows the conventional lines of the county history. Geology, Topography, Early
                    Settlement, Organization, County and City Government, Transportation, Banks and Banking, Physicians
                    and Public Health, Education, Churches, Military, Press, Manufacturing and Commerce are taken up in
                    order. There follow 390 pages of personal biographies. Those acquainted with this line of historical
                    work know about what to expect in a county history. Its editorship by John B. Stoll is a guaranty of
                    its workmanship. The editor is perhaps the best known newspaper man in Indiana at present. A number
                    of full page illustrations are included. The manager of the publishing company, Selwyn Brant, began
                    the work in Indiana over 30 years ago and some of our best county histories, written in the late
                    eighties, bear his signature.
         
         
            
               The Real 
                            Lincoln
                        , a Portrait by JESSE W. WEIK.
                    Houghton-Mifflin Co., 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New York
                    , 1922, pp. 314.
            In The Real 
                            Lincoln
                        
                the author has laboriously and conscienciously endeavored to present the human
                    side of 
                        Lincoln
                    , to show the incidents of his domestic and home life, and especially to present his
                    activities as a lawyer, being of the opinion that the public should know more of his 
                        Springfield
                     environment; thoroughly convinced that such a work would give a clearer and more
                    definite portrait of one of the greatest characters of history. Mr. Weik is well fitted for such a
                    work. He assisted Herndon in the writing of his book upon 
                        Lincoln
                    , and as a result grew so enthusiastic over the subject that it became the all absorbing
                    interest of his life. He has drawn largely upon old records wherever available, consulted
                    acquaintances of 
                        Lincoln
                    , and visiting the various places where the Lincolns lived; in fact he has exhausted all
                    of the known sources of information in his search for the truth. As a result he has produced a book
                    that is authentic and un-colored by any prejudices of the writer. The book covers the period from 
                        Lincoln
                    's boyhood until his departure for 
                        Washington
                     to become president. It is well written, and con- 
                    tains twenty-three illustrations. Due to reproducing a number of letters and various parts of
                    records and accounts relative to law practice and court proceedings the work seems somewhat
                    disconnected. The author no doubt realized this, but sacrificed smoothness for evidence. In giving
                    opinions of others Mr. Weik has so indicated them as such whenever they could not be substantiated.
                    Besides giving many new facts the author has succeeded in correcting wrong ideas and impressions now
                    held by many persons. On the whole the book will make a valuable addition to the literature already
                    produced upon this notable figure.
            ALMON R. BUIS
            
         
         
            
               The Messages and Proclamations of the Governors of the State of the 
                            Missouri
                        . Edited by BUEL LEOPARD, A. M., and FLOYD SHOEMAKER, A. M., Secretary of the State Historical
                    Society of 
                        Missouri
                    . Three Volumes, 
                  Columbia, Missouri
               , 1922, pp. 526, 528, 541.
            The first volume contains the messages of Governors Alexander McNair, Frederick Bates, Abraham J.
                    Williams, John Miller, Daniel Dunklin, Lilburn W. Boggs and Thomas Reynolds, covering the period
                    from September 20, 1820, to September 23, 1843. In the selections the editors have confined
                    themselves strictly to public documents. These are Regular Messages, Veto Messages, Special
                    Messages, Proclamations, and memoranda of Proclamations and writs of election. Nearly all the
                    messages have been taken from the Journal of the Senate.
            
            The second volume contains the messages of Meredith M, Marmaduke, John E. Edwards, Austin A. King and
                    Sterlin Price and covers the period from November 18, 1844, to November 15, 1856. Volume III
                    includes messages of Governors Trustin Polk, 
                        Hancock
                     Lee 
                        Jackson
                    , Robert M. Stewart, Claiborne Fox 
                        Jackson
                     and H#2 R. Gamble, covering the period from January 5, 1857, to October 15, 1863. The
                    three volumes furnish an interesting and valuable source of history not only for Missourians but for
                    the whole nation. Many significant questions of national history from the 
                        Missouri
                    
                     Compromise to the Dredd Scott Decision relate directly to the
                    history of this state.
            Of the sixteen governors whose messages are here printed six were born in 
                        Virginia
                    , five in Kentucky of Virginia parents, one each in 
                  Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
                            Tennessee, Delaware
                and 
                        New York
                    .
            Other than the brief biographies of the governors there is no explanatory matter. It seems in
                    hundreds of cases explanatory footnotes would have added greatly to the value of these papers. In
                    general the documents are given in chronological order but not always. A brief calendar or table of
                    contents is given but no index. It is presumed the index for the whole set will be given when the
                    work is completed. The editing seems good, the paper, printing and binding are excellent+ a very
                    creditable addition to our Missouri collection.
         
         
            
               The British In 
                            Iowa
                        
               , by Jacob VAN DER ZEE, State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , 1922, pp. 340.
            The story is divided into two essays: The first, "British Emigrants to 
                        Iowa
                    ", is relatively short and relates to the general character and distribution of
                    the English, Scotch, Irish and Welsh elements in the population. The second essay, "The
                    British Invasion of Northwestern 
                        Iowa
                    ", takes up a more detailed study of the English, especially in connection with
                    the development of Le Mars and vicinity.
            Among the English pioneers was William Brooks Close, a popular 
                        Cambridge
                     graduate. Hopeful of the future, he brought two of his brothers to Iowa and together
                    they invested in land. So enthusiastic and influential were these brothers and the men associated
                    with them that any treatment of the Le Mars settlement must center around the activities of these
                    men. The fact is emphasized that the early English settlers were of the better educated and
                    wealthier class who were able to carry on a rapid development. The author does not supply a map of
                    the state. There are times, however, when the reader might wish to consult a map. We become
                    acquainted with the pioneers and their ideas through the columns of the local  newspaper. Several news articles and letters of prominent men are
                    connected with the story in such a way as to improve the account greatly.
            HERMAN A. STEELE.
         
         
            
               The Autobiography of David Crockett. With an Introduction by Hamlin Garland.
                    Charles Scribner's Sons, 
                        New York
                    , 1923, pp. 328.
            This book consists of three main divisions: A Narrative of the life of David Crockett, of the State
                    of 
                        Tennessee
                    ; An account of Col. Crockett's Tour to the North and Down East; and Col.
                    Crockett's Exploits and Adventures in 
                        Texas
                    . The Autobiography gives an account of his life from boyhood up to the time of his
                    greatest political prominence about 1834. This part is the most tedious reading of the entire book
                    because of so many insignificant details. Especially is this true in his account of the Indian
                    fighting during the War of 1812. The greatest value of this part is the real pioneer attitude in
                    Indian warfare. The dynamic characteristic of "retaliation" to the fullest degree
                    is illustrated in a graphic way.
            Part two is a narrative of the "border hero" touring the Middle Atlantic and New 
                        England
                     states. This account is fascinating because of the abounding humor of this backwoodsman
                    and the interesting events that are related. The greatest value that one receives from this part is
                    the comparison brought to one's mind in seeing the trail-blazer of the west meeting the
                    blue bloods of the east. Then the loyalty of David Crockett to his frontier peeps out on every page
                    of his reflections.
            Part three is generally considered as not being either of David Crockett's writing or
                    dictation. Nevertheless this part is believed to be substantially true and whether authentic or not
                    it certainly is very entertaining reading.
            The great value to be received from this book is the real, typical pioneer atmosphere and spirit that
                    one gleans from it.
            David Crockett is not reticent in his own praise, however that is only typical of men of his type. He
                    was a real explorer of the wilds and he knew it and why should he hide the fact. It brings out in a
                    real example how the hunter  spirit drew this type of
                    frontiesman on and on opening up new highways of migration. The pitiful scene was the continual
                    clinging on of the trail-blazer's family in trying to follow in the wake of his adventurous
                    spirit. Another important characteristic that is brought out is the attitude of a frontiersman
                    towards enemy and friend. He is a true friend to a friend but nurses the bitterest hate for an
                    enemy. The former is illustrated time and again through the book. The latter has no better
                    illustration than his intense hatred towards the "government", Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    . He never misses an opportunity to "take a jibe" at him and where
                    there isn't an opportunity he prepares one. Still another characteristic which the most
                    popular backwoods hero must possess is that of humor. David Crockett had this in abundanc. It stood
                    him good aid in many a situation and left a more colorful hero than he otherwise would have been.
            As for his style it is considered abominable but in reality it is a part of the charm of the story.
                    One would not be able to grasp the true spirit of David Crockett from a literary masterpiece. We are
                    imbued with the real pioneer spirit far more by obtaining it in his own vernacular.
            The introduction by Hamlin Garland gives the true spirit and value of these three accounts. It is the
                    best review and criticism that one can read. He certainly has grasped the significance of them.
            W. W. BOYD
            
         
         
            
               The Thirty-seventh Annual Report of the U. S. Bureau of Ethnology, for the year
                    1915-16, deals with the 
                        Winnebago
                     Tribe of Indians. It was prepared by Paul Radin, pp. 560.
            The volume deals exhaustively with the history and culture of the tribe, known history, archeology,
                    culture, customs, rites, social organization, education, dress, religion, etc. There are 96
                    illustrations. The home of the tribe was Central Wisconsin from Green Bay and 
                        Winnebago
                     lake along Fox and Wisconsin rivers over to La Crosse on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . A considerable number of this tribe still live in the north central part of the
                state.
         
         
         
            
               Mississippi Valley Beginnings, An Outline of the Earlier History of the West, by
                    Henry E. Chambers, Member of Louisiana State Historical Society, G. P. Putnam's Sons, 
                        New York
                    , 1922, pp. 389.
            The treatise is divided into six parts—French, English, Struggle between 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                    , Spanish, Downfall of Spanish and American Domination. The author indulges freely in
                    the catchy chapter heads common to historical novelists. A Bubble and Its Bursting, A Pawn and Four
                    Players, America's First Scrap of Paper are illustrative. The author covers the ground
                    usual in western historical literature. His main purpose is interpretative with a greater emphasis
                    than usual on the incidents connected with 
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . No new theory of interpretation is presented. A liberal discussion of the
                    "what might have been", a favorite resort with historians, is indulged in. Certain
                    events are featured, it seems, far beyond their relative values. Camp Salubrity, the Acadians, the
                    Rattle of 
                        New Orleans
                     and Jefferson's fantastic names for the western states are instances. The
                    author has neglected much easily accessible source material, especially the investigations of the
                    Illinois historians, Alvord and James. These would have saved him from some ludicrous errors
                    concerning the work of George Rogers Clark. The Canadian sources, especially the Haldimand Papers
                    and the writings of Butterfield would also have improved his narrative. The author is evidently much
                    more interested in conclusions than in evidence, which leads him to a faulty perspective. The author
                    has rightly insisted on more weight being given to the old southwest and this is his most valuable
                    addition to the subject. The paper in the volume would easily have carried twice as much print and
                    this is what his subject most needed.
            JOSEPHINE CRAIG
            
         
         
            
               The War Purse of Indiana, by WALTER GREENOUGH, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Indiana Historical Commission, 1922, pp. 278.
            This book is the second volume of Indiana World War Records, and the eighth volume of the Indiana
                    Historical Collections. It bears the sub-title, "The Five Liberty Loans  and the War Savings and Thrift Campaigns in Indiana during the World
                    War," which accurately describes the contents of the volume.
            The author was not handicapped in his investigation by a dearth of sources but was sometimes
                    embarrassed by the great mass of material, neither "definite nor accurate in many
                    instances" and by the fact that many of the records are "conflicting and
                    contradictory." He wisely recognized that "wars and the people waging them are
                    abnormal" which undoubtedly aided him in writing so sane a treatise so soon after the close
                    of the great world conflict. He refrains from giving undue credit to any class, or group, or
                    community in the raising of the enormous amounts assigned to Indiana in the several great drives,
                    concluding that, "It was the composite of three million Indianians, steeped in the dignity
                    of a hundred years of splendid statehood, and called again to sacrifice," that achieved
                    success.
            Any citizen, who lived through the soul-testing and soul-stirring years of the World war will find
                    this modest volume interesting reading. It is a well-balanced, well-authenticated, readable account.
                    Students of the present and of the future will find it a handy and reliable reference. The
                    illustrations consist of seven well-selected posters, typical of those used in the various
                    campaigns.
            It is no easy task to write the history of any phase of the World war, however limited, so soon after
                    the event. In the judgment of the reviewer, the funds of the Indiana Historical Commission can be
                    spent to better advantage than in the publication of monographs on the war period. The essential
                    thing at the present is the preservation of the sources. The writing of recent history can well be
                    postponed until after the publication of records and monographs pertaining to earlier periods of the
                    state's history has reached a stage far beyond that attained at present. However, should
                    additional monographs of the World war period be written, it is to be hoped that they will exhibit
                    the same careful workmanship and the same fine spirit as the book under review.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
         
         
         
            
               The Party Battles of the 
                            Jackson
                         Period, by CLAUDE J. BOWERS, 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New York
                    : Houghton Mifflin Co. 1922. Pp. xxi, 506, $6.00.
            The purpose of the author has been to deal "with the brilliant, dramatic, and epochal party
                    battles and the fascinating personalities" of the 
                        Jackson
                     period. The result is a historical work which is more interesting and fascinating than
                    a book of ficton. The author succeeds in placing his reader in the atmosphere of the times by means
                    of a realistic opening picture of the 
                        Washington City
                     of the Thirties, by the constant use of well chosen dramatic incidents, and by showing
                    the cross currents of politics through quotations from diaries, memoirs, and the contemporary press.
                    Novel chapter titles are used and indicate the expressive language throughout the book; for example,
                    The Rising of the Masses, The Red Terror and the White, The Battle of the Gods, Political
                    Hydrophobia. The chapter entitled Mrs. Eaton Demolishes the Cabinet, is suggestive of a deliberate
                    purpose on the part of the author to bring in personalities and show the relation of society to
                    politics. To him history is the story of personalites, and party battles are only struggles between
                    leaders, much like personal encounters; for example, 
                        Jackson
                     Breaks With Calhoun, and 
                        Jackson
                     vs. Biddle. Nevertheless he asserts that the parties of the time were actuated by
                    "well-defined antagonistic principles and policies." He makes of his hero, 
                        Jackson
                    , the champion of the cause of the masses against the aristocracy of wealth and culture.
            The author continues in his preface, "It was not until the Jacksonian epoch that we became a
                    democracy in fact. The selection of Presidents then passed from the caucus of the politicians in the
                    capital, to the plain people of the factories, fields, and marts." He admits that the party
                    system which 
                        Jackson
                     introduced had "some evils which have persisted through the succeeding
                    years—the penalties of the rule of the people. Demogogy then reared its head and licked
                    its tongue. Class consciousness and hatreds were awakened, and, on the part of the great
                    corporations, intimidation, coercion, and the corrupt use of money to control elections were
                    toritributed."  These are the evils which he says are
                    the penalties of the rule of the people. Also the school of practical politicians, the widespread
                    use of the press for party propaganda, the policy of "To the victor belong the
                    spoils," are all excused, or else it is pointed out that custom has sanctioned their use.
            In dealing with the personalities of the period the author set himself the task of stripping off
                    false moral grandeur and revealing characters "as they really were-warts and all"-
                    "intensely human in their moral limitations." He is not, however, impartial in his
                    treatment of characters. 
                        Clay
                    , especially, and also Calhoun, Webster and the other Whig leaders, suffer by the
                    attack. Quite strangely he finds nothing about 
                        Jackson
                     to be condemned, and casts a favorable impression upon his lieutenants, Isaac Hill,
                    Amos Kendal and Thomas H. Benton; and in fact upon all those politicians who identified themselves
                    with the "sons of toil". One can not read the book without the thought that the
                    author unduly reveals his party affiliation and lets his prejudices color his account.
            The following list is typical of the vast amount of source material he has used, and from which he
                    quotes quite freely: 
                  
                            Benton
                        's Thirty Years' View, Adam' Memoir, 
                            Hamilton
                        's Reminiscences, Van Buren's Autobiography, Mrs. Smith's
                        First Forty Years, 
                            Clay
                        's Works, Correspondence of Nicholas Biddle, Haynes' Diary,
                    the 
                        Washington
                    
                    Globe and the National Intelligencer. In some cases he gives
                    greater, weight to a memoir than to a contemporary account, and has quite ignored a number of
                    historical sources of the period.
            The author is a master in the use of the English language. Every sentence is forceful, each incident
                    is pictured clearly and dramatically, and a unique feature is that his characters come to be thought
                    of in terms of the characteristics he applies to them. This last result has been accomplised by a
                    consistent coupling of name and nickname, a rare selection of forceful adjectives, and by numerous
                    brief pen pictures of those characters. The following list is not exhaustive but indicates some of
                    the more important characters of the period,  most of them
                    having been necessarily passed by historians covering a longer period of time. There was Edward
                    Livingston, the cultured diplomat; Roger B. Taney, the courageous fighting party leader for 
                        Jackson
                    ; John Forsythe, the "greatest debater of his time" and an able
                    secretary of state. George McDuffie the tempestuous leader of the opposition; Hugh Lawson White, the
                    "Cato of the Senate"; John M. Clayton, master of Calhoun and Clay on one occasion;
                    Preston and Binney, polished orators; Major Lewis, master of political details; and Frank Blair, the
                    slashing journalistic champion of the administration. Clay is represented as an unscrupulous
                    politician, master of political intrigue and subterfuge, and with ambitions for the presidency;
                    Calhoun, a disapointed presidential candidate, filled with petty hates and embittered toward the
                    Union; Webster, the noblest of the three, but not above asking for a retainer from the Bank; Adams,
                    proud and reserved, but desiring to serve the people; Tyler, firm in his convictions and deserving
                    of better treatment by historians. His hero, 
                        Jackson
                    , is fondly spoken of as "the grim old warrior"# "the iron
                    man", or "the popular hero". The Jacksonian party, he says, was made up
                    of the "sons of toil", a unified group with a definite party platform, and was
                    opposed by the "Whig Oligarchy", an "unholy alliance of incongruous
                    elements."
            Mr. Bowers has taken old material and presented it in an unusual and fascinating way. While his
                    conclusions and interpretations are interesting, many of his readers will not accept them because
                    partisanship is too apparent. On the whole the book is an important contribution to American
                    historical literature and every student of history and politics will find it worthy of a reading.
            CHARLES F. REED
            
         
         
            The annual reports of the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     Ladies' Association of the Union for 1922 and 1923 have been received from
                    Mrs. Benjamin D. Wolcott, vice regent for Indiana. The purpose of this organization is the
                    preservation of the 
                        Washington
                     homestead at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    . Over 250,000 visitors to these grounds indicate the reverence of the world for 
                        Washington
                    .
            
            Prof. W. M. Tucker read a paper recently to the Indiana Academy of Science on the history of the
                    Lakes near Laporte, Indiana. The interesting feature is the disappearance of these lakes. Since 1829
                    the lake levels have declined from 10 to 20 feet and where steamboats once found ample water there
                    is now dry land. It has been a great disappointment as well as inconvenience to the city of LaPorte.
            
               Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        
                is the title of a 66 page pamphlet by Mrs. Nora C. Fretageot. This is a
                    "guide" not only to the history and traditions of 
                        New Harmony
                     but to the present town itself. The thirty-nine illustrations show most of the historic
                    features in the town as well as many of the best known characters. 
                        New Harmony
                     is such a favorite resort for feature writers that an authentic guide such as this is
                    more than ordinarily welcome.
            
               The American Pioneer and His Story is the subject of an address by George F. Parker
                    at the Fifteenth annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association and published by
                    'the State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    . Mr. Parker stresses the vigor and archievements of the pioneers and laments the lack
                    of appropriate historical notice of them.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
