
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 22, Issue 4, pages 335-453. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:22+issue:4+year:1926&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Pioneer Presbyterianism
            By JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN, Emeritus Professor of American History, Indiana University1
            
            By an act of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, May 29, 1826, the
                    Synod of Indiana was ordained. It was to consist of the presbyteries of 
                        Missouri
                    , 
                        Salem
                    , 
                        Wabash
                    , and 
                        Madison
                    . We are here to celebrate this event. This synod first met,
                    according to appointment, on Wednesday, the 18th of October, 1826, and continued
                    in session till the 21st.
            There were present on that occasion eight ministers and twelve lay elders. From
                    the Presbytery of 
                        Missouri
                     (which included the state of 
                        Missouri
                     and the western part of 
                        Illinois
                    ) Rev. Salmon Giddings, with James McClung, ruling elder; from the
                    Presbytery of 
                        Salem
                    , Rev. Tilly H. Brown, with James Young, as elder; from the
                    Presbytery of 
                        Wabash
                    , Rev. Samuel T. Scott, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Rev. George Bush, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Rev. Baynard R. Hall, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , with James Scott, John Orchard, Frederick Dey Hoff, John Holme,
                    James Carnahan, Robert Taylor, Thomas Gold, Samuel Peery, and John McKee, as
                    elders; from the Presbytery of 
                        Madison
                    , Rev. John McElroy Dickey, Rev. John Finley Crowe, and Rev. James
                    H. Johnston, with Alexander Walker, as elder.
            
               
                  1 The larger part of this paper was read before the
                        Presbyterian Synod of Indiana, at 
                            Vincennes
                        , October 5, 1926, at a meeting in commemoration of the founding
                        of the synod at 
                            Vincennes
                         in October, 1826.
            
            
            The Rev. Truman Perrin, from the convention of 
                        Vermont
                     was present as a corresponding member. These twenty-one men
                    constituted our first Synodical Court.
            There were names of other pioneer laborers which should be on our honor roll
                    today, of men like William M. Martin and Isaac Reed who were in the field in
                    that early era, but were not present in this meeting. Martin had been appointed
                    to preach the opening sermon; Dickey took his place. There were then at least
                    seven ministers other than those attending the synod in the missionary wilds of
                    Indiana, working the vast field and planting the seed of the future church. It
                    becomes us to honor these men and to recall something of the hard conditions
                    under which they labored.
            Xerxes, the Persian monarch, was asked why he wept as he viewed his vast army of
                    a million men. It was, he said, at the thought that one hundred years from that
                    hour not one of that great marching throng would be alive. Not one of the
                    pioneers who founded the Synod of Indiana one hundred years ago is now alive.
                    Not a Presbyterian minister then living in the state has been alive for fifty
                    years gone by. Yet we know that to us today they are not dead. They live and
                    speak with voice as potent as ever. They are a part of what we are.
            When the apostle refers to "forgetting the things that are
                    behind" he means only the things that discourage us and pull us down.
                    The stirring deeds of the fathers, their sacrifices and their toils are mighty
                    influences that lift us up and it is ours to see to it that they are not
                    forgotten.
            Man is explained only by his history. There is a theory that biography is the
                    chief concern of a student of history; that the world's history is to
                    be found in the achievements of its great men, or in the sum total of
                    men's lives. The whole of history, we are told, is to be explained by
                    individual experience. The ages are to be explained by the hours, and every step
                    in a leader's experience flashes a light on what great bodies of men
                    have done. To the man of understanding, as Emerson has put it:
            
            
                    What Plato has thought he may think; what a saint has felt, he may feel; what
                        at any time has befallen any man he can understand.1
               
                
            Such is the philosophy of life and history of the school of Emerson and Carlyle.
                    There is a large measure of truth in it, though we recognise the conflicting
                    necessitarian view that events have controlled men and not men events. 
                        Lincoln
                     felt that some outside controlling power, or the human forces about
                    him, controlled his life and conduct. He said: 
                        I claim not to have controlled events but confess that events have
                            controlled me.
                    
                
            Whatever we may think of conflicting philosophies or of the theological dogmas of
                    God's sovereignty and man's subjection; of free will and human
                    inability, I am convinced that if we want to understand early Presbyterianism in
                    Indiana we shall have to look at the lives and deeds of the men who planted the
                    Presbyterian seed in this wilderness soil. We cannot see them or hear them in
                    the flesh today, but we can feel them in the spirit, as we listen to a part of
                    the roll of that pioneer band. Let us recognise the need of emulating their
                    sacrificial example.
            Scott, Dickey, Cleland, Covert, Reed, Martin, McGready, Balch, Hall, Post,
                    Beatty, Young, Johnston, Baldridge, Bush, Nyce, Coe, Crowe, Thomson, Todd,
                    Trimble, Monfort and Moreland; Mills and Merrill, Lowery and Hovey, and a host
                    of others unnamed and unknown to fame, lay men and lay women, whose courage and
                    pioneer sacrifices helped to save Indiana for civilization. The list of names
                    that are known is like that of the Eleventh of Hebrews, and I
                    am convinced that they were braver and better men than the Sampsons, Baraks,
                    Gideons and Jephthas of old. I cannot here trace the lives of one in ten of
                    these modern giants and warriors of the faith who laid our Presbyterian
                    foundations in Indiana. I shall refer to the work of a few which you may take as
                    examples of all.
            Look first at 
                        Dickey
                    , the father of Presbyterianism in Indiana. He was not the first to
                    come, but by his long life of 
                  
                     1
                            Essay on History.
               
                     service and devotion he became the Nestor
                    among Indiana Presbyterians.
            He had the intelligence and foresight to leave a written record of the history he
                    was helping to make. We find this record in his brief manuscript History of the Presbyterian Church in Indiana, published in 1828 under
                    the direction of the 
                        Salem Presbytery
                    , an invaluable account of our early foundations. I have gone
                    through that manuscript copy. History is not founded upon the traditions and
                    memory of men. It rests upon the document. "No document no
                    history,"—that is one of the canons of the cult. Tradition
                    fades, but the written document endures. In this document of Dickey, we find the
                    story of how and when our early churches were planted. How Rev. Samuel B.
                    Robertson organized the first Presbyterian church in Indiana, here at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1806, the "Church of Indiana". For many years
                    it had Rev. Samuel T. Scott as its minister, and for six years it was the only
                    Presbyterian church in the state.1
            
            
               
                  1 So far as I can learn Rev. Thomas Cleland preached
                        the first sermon by a Presbyterian minister in Indiana, in 1805.
                        Evangelization in these regions was the outcome of the great religious
                        revival in 
                            Kentucky
                         in 1800. The Baptists were the first to come. The Presbyterians
                        and the Methodists followed hard after. In 1805 Cleland was directed by his
                        presbytery to visit 
                            Vincennes
                         and the adjoining regions. He travelled from 
                            Louisville
                         by a wilderness trace through an uninhabited route. He found
                        but one house for shelter on the way. Here on his first night out he
                        stretched himself on the puncheon floor of the log cabin. The next night at 
                            Vincennes
                         he was entertained at the palace of the territorial governor,
                        Gen. William Henry Harrison and his Presbyterian wife. His first sermon was
                        in the council house, which but a short time before had been occupied by the
                        sons of the forest in a treaty-making council with Harrison. The following
                        year, 1806, the "Indiana Church", at 
                            Vincennes
                        , was established. It has been claimed that the first
                        Presbyterian sermon in the neighborhood of 
                            Vincennes
                         was preached in 1802, but Mr. Edson has arrayed decisive
                        evidence against this claim. See page 40 of his Early History
                            or the Presbyterian Church in Indiana. The
                        "Upper" and the "Lower" Church at 
                            Vincennes
                         became separate places of worship. It seems meetings were not
                        held in the town of 
                            Vincennes
                         till 1819. A third division of the original society in 1832
                        became the nucleus of the present 
                            Vincennes
                         church. But the 
                            Vincennes
                         church may very properly claim descent from the original
                        organization and to be a part of its continuous history. Rev. Dr. E. P.
                        Whallon, for many years pastor of 
                            Vincennes
                         and the author of a valuable brochure on the "
                            Vincennes Presbytery
                        ". writes as follows to the author: "The 
                            Vincennes
                         Church was not an outgrowth, or development, or afterthought,
                        but was the original church. An unfortunate effect has been produced by the
                        fact that it assumed a separate organization at a later day and that one of
                        the other parts, or portions, retained the original name. The early meetings
                        of the 
                            Vincennes
                         church, or "Indiana Church" as it was called,
                        from its being the earliest church in the territory, were held in the
                        council chamber, or in the court house, and it was understood to be
                    the
            
            
            After 
                        Vincennes
                     came the foundation at 
                        Charleston
                     in 1812, by Rev. Joseph B. Lapsley, later served by Rev. John Todd.
                    Then came the church at 
                  Washington, Daviess
                    county
               , organized by 
                        Scott
                    , where Dickey later settled and labored. In 1815 Rev. William
                    Robinson came from 
                        Ohio
                    , to 
                        Madison
                     and organized the handful of Presbyterians there.
            Then in 1816 Martin and Shannon organized 
                        Salem
                    , 
                        Livonia
                    , Blue River and Pisgah, the latter in 
                        Clark county
                    .
            In 1819 Isaac Reed organized the church at 
                        Bloomington
                    . Reed deserves to be called the 
                        St. Paul
                     of this western country, as he organized and visited more churches
                    than any other single missionary. Later I shall speak of his work in detail.
            In 1820 Thomas C. Searle brought a little band together at 
                        Hanover
                    . In 1823 John Finley Crowe came there, the founder of 
                        Hanover
                     College, whose name will be known in Indiana Presbyterianism while 
                        Hanover
                     college lives, and may it live and thrive forever!
            So Dickey's History tells us of the planting of the
                    churches, of new ones rising, of the old ones growing, their bounds lengthening,
                    their cords strengthening.
            John McElroy Dickey was of Scotch-Irish descent. He was born in the up-lands of 
                        South Carolina
                    , in 
                        York
                     district, in 1789. His education was the result of his own hard
                    labor. He studied theology in 
                        Kentucky
                     with Dr. Nathan H. Hall. He was licensed to preach in 1814 by the
                    Muhlenburg presbytery, in his twenty-fifth year. In December of that year he
                    visited Indiana at 
                        Washington
                    , where 
                        Scott
                     had established a church.
            
               
                  
                            Vincennes
                         church. When the organization was effected in 1806, it happened
                        to be in Col. Samuel Small's barn, out about two miles from 
                            Vincennes
                        , for the convenience of all; but this barn was nearer to 
                            Vincennes
                         by some miles than to the meeting places of either of the other
                        "portions". Some years afterwards the Upper Indiana
                        portion moved down some four miles nearer to 
                            Vincennes
                        , to its present location. The organization now known as
                        "Indiana Church" was how as the "Lower
                        Indiana" Church until in comparatively recent times the
                        "Lower" was dropped, by an action such as has often
                        changed the correct face of history, and it has been made to appear, by this
                        changed name, to be the original organization, which, of course, it is not.
                        The 
                            Vincennes
                         church today carries the property as deeded to "The 
                            Vincennes
                         Portion of the Indiana church." … It should
                        be made clear that the 
                            Vincennes
                         church was not a later church although it did withdraw and set
                        up a separate life long years after it had been born, and had been living,
                        as the Indiana Church."
            
            
            Indiana was still a territory and when Dickey came, there were but two other
                    organized Presbyterian societies within her bounds, the one at 
                        Vincennes
                     and the other at 
                        Charleston
                    . Palmyra had become extinct and Baldridge had moved from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                        Ohio
                    . There were but two church buildings for worship in the state and
                    these were log houses. Church meetings were held in log court houses or school
                    houses, if they were available; If not, then at private homes or in the groves,
                    the first temples of God.
            During Dickey's first visit he engaged to return to 
                        Washington
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     the following year. Accordingly in May, 1815, he set out for his
                    new home in the wilderness with his wife and baby girl. The family and all their
                    earthly goods were carried on the backs of two horses. His library consisted of
                    a Bible, Buck's Theological Dictionary,
                    Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress and
                    Fisher's Catechism. When Dickey paid the ferriage for
                    the family across the 
                        Ohio
                     he had only twenty-five cents left.1
            
            The evangel was going on faith into the struggles and self denials of the pioneer
                    life. The people were as poor as he, unable to furnish suitable ministerial
                    support. He was ready to share their tribulations. There was scarcely any money.
                    Taxes were paid in coon skins, fox skins, and wolf-scalps. People lived by
                    chopping and hunting; they traded by barter; they found food in the wilds, from
                    plums and grapes, gooseberries and pawpaws. Their hogs were fattened on the
                    abundant mast of the forest. The cattle ran at large and the few fences were put
                    up to keep the stock out, not in. Dickey supported his family by farming,
                    teaching, and by writing deeds, wills, and advertisements. He knew how to farm
                    and he could teach others. His crops were proverbially abundant. By his own
                    labor he cleared thirty acres of land and, with the help of his neighbors at
                    log-rolling he built a log cabin in the woods,—the floor of slabs,
                    the small windows of greased paper instead of glass, the stick chimney daubed
                    with clay. Such was the parsonage of your ancestral 
                  
                     1 Hanford A. Edson, Early
                                Presbyterianism in Indiana.
               
                     presbytery. Dickey could work with tools,
                    mend a plow or make a rake or a harrow, or mend the shoes for his family or for
                    his neighbors. He kept close accounts, and his average salary for the first
                    sixteen years in Indiana, including money and gifts was eighty dollars a year.
            Brothers of the clergy, "look at your beginnings! It will give you cause
                    for thanksgiving." Let us be thankful that there were such spirits in
                    those days to serve their fellow men.
            The minister preached every Sabbath and oftentimes during the week. The family
                    could not afford lamp or candle, and often after a day of manual labor, Mr.
                    Dickey would gather some pine knots, kindle a bright fire and there sitting by
                    the hearth he would write out the plan of his sermon.
            After four years service in 
                        Daviess county
                    , Dickey moved to 
                        Lexington
                    , in 
                        Scott county
                    , and became the pastor of the churches at 
                        New Lexington
                     and Pisgah. He also had charge of the Graham church on Graham creek
                    in 
                        Jennings county
                    . His installation at 
                        Lexington
                     in 1819 was the first formal pastoral settlement in the state.
            Here Dickey's hard labors continued. He not only wrought out his living
                    from the soil and ministered to his country flock, he served also as an
                    itinerant bishop. He went on difficult horseback journeys far and wide,
                    supplying vacant churches, assisting in special services, in revivals and at
                    communions. In 1823 the Assembly appointed him on the Committee of Missions.
                    Dickey made a tour to 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , scattering announcements and filling appointments as he went. It
                    was not a Pullman journey on a train de luxe. His figure was
                    spare and bent yet on this journey he preached thirty-one sermons in thirty
                    days, a living exemplification of the old adage "a lean hound for a
                    long race." The rains had fallen, the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries were swollen. There were few if any bridges
                    but, as he said, "the Lord delivered me out of deep waters".
                    In 1824 he spent two months in the counties of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , 
                        Rush
                    , 
                        Shelby
                    , and 
                        Decatur
                    , during which time he organized the churches of
                            
                  Columbus, Franklin
                and 
                        New Providence
                    , near 
                        Shelbyville
                    .
            
            Such are a few extracts, or recitals, indicating the character of one pioneer
                    preacher's life. The others were much like it.
            Father Dickey fell asleep November 21, 1849. He was only sixty. His wiry frame
                    had worn itself out; the hardships of frontier life were not conducive to
                    longevity. When the synod met at 
                        New Albany
                     a few weeks before his death he wrote to his brethren telling them
                    of his feebleness and assuring them that his work was nearly done. Upon
                    receiving a reply Mr. Dickey was deeply moved and 
                        at the family altar with choked utterance he gave thanks to God that the
                            lines had fallen to him in such pleasant places, among such loving and
                            faithful brethren.1
                  
                    
                
            It is service to others that makes the heart tender and grateful. Was there ever
                    greater faith or greater faithfulness in 
                        Israel
                     than Dickey's in his pioneer service?
            Mr. Edson says that Dickey's remains lie buried beside his second wife
                    in the cemetery of Pisgah church, now New 
                        Washington
                     in 
                        Clark county
                    . On the announcement of his death in synod a movement was made to
                    erect a monument to his memory. The motion was opposed by Samuel Merrill, who
                    said that he knew Mr. Dickey well enough to be sure that such display would have
                    offended his modesty. Mr. Merrill suggested instead that funds be raised for a
                    hall in 
                        Wabash
                     college to be known as Dickey Hall. The suggestion was met with
                    cordial approval but was never carried out.
            I know not whether any memorial exists to this man of God anywhere in Indiana,
                    but I am sure there ought to be, at 
                        Hanover
                     or at 
                        Wabash
                    , in whose foundations he was so deeply interested. Samuel
                    Merrill's worthy suggestion may well be carried out, even after the
                    lapse of many years.
            I cannot leave this sketch of Dickey without a mention of the mate who stood by
                    his side through his years of toil. She went to heaven two years before her
                    husband, but this wife, like the pioneer woman of the time, 'shared her
                    husband's trials and successes for nearly thirty years and became the
                    mother of eleven children. I shall leave to your imagination 
                  
                     1 Edson, Early Preabyterianism,
                            75.
               
                     to picture her busy and toilsome life in
                    the pioneer par sonage in the wilderness.
            Harriet Beecher Stowe in her novel Dred (later changed in name
                    to Nina Gordon) portrays the character of Father Dickey. She
                    used to hear her famous brother and husband speak of him as an apostle of the
                    primitive order,—"poor, yet making many rich; having nothing yet
                    possessing all things." He advocated the cause of the slave in the day
                    when such advocacy exposed one to persecution and bodily danger. 
                        He was always constant, steady, faithful, inspiring young ministers by
                            his constancy and his faith and by the simplicity of his Christian
                            devotion.
                    
                
            As we look back at such a life, let us thank God and take courage.
            I wish now to speak of another example, another representative Presbyterian
                    pioneer Rev. James H. Johnston, who also, left some historical material for our
                    use.
            On February 5, 1865, Johnston preached a sermon in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     church, an historical discourse reviewing "A Ministry of
                    Forty Years in Indiana."
            That sermon, preserved in printed form, is a valuable historical document. In it
                    Johnston said that of the eight ministers present at the first meeting of this
                    synod he was the only one of them then alive, and of the fifteen constituting
                    the whole number of Presbyterian ministers in the state ii: 1825, "All
                    are in their graves but myself." Well might he ask in the words of his
                    text, "The fathers where are they, and the prophets, do they live
                    forever?" In a short span of forty years all had been called home but
                    one. Johnston lingered eleven years, till 1876, when he died, after a service of
                    fifty-one years, which our historian Edson has called the longest continuous
                    service of any Presbyterian minister in the history of the State.1
            
            
               
                  1 Edson's "Early Indiana
                        Presbyterianism" was published in 1898. Dr. Little's
                        service of 49 years at 
                            Wabash
                         nearly equaled 
                            Johnson
                        's years. Rev. Hervey L. Van Nuys was pastor of the 
                            Goshen
                         Church for fifty-two years. He was the first minister of the 
                            Goshen
                         Church and that was his first and only pastorate. So far as the
                        author knows this is the longest pastorate in the history of Indiana
                        Presbyterianism. Mr. Van Nuys retired from the 
                            Goshen
                         pulpit in 1903. He was a man of unusual effectiveness and
                        power, very deserving of notice on this occasion.
            
            
            James Harvey Johnston was born at 
                        Sidney Plains
                    , 
                        New York
                    , in 1798. He graduated from 
                        Hamilton
                     college in 1820 with the first honors of his class. He was a
                    classmate and warm life long friend of Albert Barnes, and when Barnes died in
                    1871 (happily living long enough to witness the reunion of the church) Johnston
                    preached in his church at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     a memorial sermon on Barnes, which, no doubt, was what Edson calls
                    it, "a beautiful and just tribute to his distinguished
                    friend."
            Johnston taught a year at 
                        Utica
                    , then went to 
                        Princeton
                     and took a course in divinity, and was licensed to preach by the 
                        Columbia Presbytery
                     in 1823. He entered upon his calling with a sense of its high and
                    holy character. He prayed that he might never be guilty of doing the work of the
                    Lord deceitfully, that he might never neglect nor abandon it, nor undertake it
                    from merely worldly or mercenary motives. He believed that the laborer was
                    worthy of his hire, but be conceived that idea to be a direction to govern those
                    to whom the gospel is preached rather than to be insisted on by the preachers
                    themselves. Evidently he was a Godly man, the kind who may say, "Upon
                    me a necessity is laid, woe is me if I preach not the gospel."
            Johnston arrived at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in December, 1824, under the patronage of the Domestic
                    Missionary Society of 
                        New York
                    . He was accompanied west by John Young, a co-laborer and
                    co-missionary. Soon after arriving at 
                        Madison
                    , Johnston set out on an itinerant missionary tour through the
                    south-eastern part of the state. He traveled five hundred miles and preached
                    fifty times. During these two months Young acted as stated supply to the 
                        Madison pulpit
                    . When Johnston returned to 
                        Madison
                    , Young started on a tour to the 
                        Wabash
                    . He attended the Indiana Missionary Society at 
                        Vincennes
                    , was attacked by a violent fever, died, and now lies buried in a 
                        Vincennes
                     cemetery.
            So died one whom Johnston calls "a young man of piety and
                    zeal." Some of the ministers of the synod in 1826, stood at
                    Young's grave as we might well do during these days. Hall tens of it:
            
            
                    During the week, in company with some clergymen, we visited the grave of a
                        young man who, unavoidably exposed to a fatal illness in discharging his
                        missionary duties had died at 
                            Vincennes
                         in early manhood, far away from his widowed mother's
                        home. Deep solemnity was in the little company of his classmates as they
                        stood gazing where rested the remains of the youthful hero. Dear young man,
                        his warfare was soon ended, and there he lay among the silent ones in the
                        scented meadow land of the far west! He heard not the voice of the wind,
                        whether it breathed rich with the fragrance of wild sweets, or roared round
                        in the awful tones of the hurricane, sweeping over the vastness of the
                        measureless plains. Nor heard he the sighs of his comrades, nor saw their
                        sudden tears wiped away with the stealthy motion of a rapid hand.
                    To him that visit was vain; not so to us, for we departed, resolved ourselves
                        to be ready for an early death.
                
            Young was not alone in his martyrdom. Others died, too, in this early mission
                    service, victims of the miasmatic fevers so common to the uncleared lands. Rev.
                    Thomas C. Searle, at 
                        Madison
                    , was one, at one time professor of Divinity at 
                        Dartmouth
                    . After two short years of labor at 
                        Madison
                     Searle was called to his reward. Rev. Joseph Trimble was called to
                    the post. A day was set for his ordination. On that day, instead of performing
                    the sacred service which they had anticipated, his brother ministers gathered
                    about his dying bed, and the next day followed his lifeless remains to his
                    grave. So it was that the soldiers of the cross fell on the firing line.
            Yet after the lapse of forty years Johnston stood like a rugged oak to recount
                    the events of the early days. He was an optomist in his faith. The rewards which
                    he had witnessed of his hard labors had made him so. He not only recounted the
                    worthy achievements of the forty years past but he looked forward in spirit with
                    hopeful anticipation to the forty years to come. He was standing on the eve of a
                    restored union of the church, for which he had so ardently prayed, and his
                    thought was of a gospel to be carried to every land. He appealed especially to
                    the young men who heard him in 1865, to enlist as laborers for the
                    evangelization of the world.
            Johnston worked with all his might for all the agencies of the church, for 
                        Hanover
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     colleges, for the  Bible
                    society, for the Indiana Missionary society, and he became editor of the Indiana Religious Intelligencer, founded on the faith of these
                    Indiana missionaries whose personal incomes ranged from $50.00 to
                    $500.00 a year.
            Johnston was a member of the board of trustees of 
                        Hanover
                     for its first ten years and for twenty years he bore the same
                    relation to 
                        Wabash
                    .
            In 1843 Johnston moved from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . For four years he was principal of a girls' seminary
                    there.
            Apart from these four years, he says, few were the Sabbaths throughout those
                    forty years that he was prevented from preaching, from bodily indisposition or
                    from any cause. He had come to Indiana to preach the gospel and that one thing
                    he did amid all disappointments and discouragements. For twelve years he
                    followed the hard labor of a missionary throughout the state. For a few of his
                    later years he was pastor emeritus, in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     but never ceased to be busy and useful. He died in March, 1876,
                    full of years and of honors, a fine type of early Indiana Presbyterianism.
            Isaac Reed was nearly ready to leave Indiana when Johnston came and to this
                    earlier and more adventurous missionary let us now give our attention. He too
                    has left a valuable document for history of the western church.
            Isaac Reed gave us the Christian Traveller. Let us bless his
                    name for that! Here is a record of thousands of miles of travel and labor in
                    this western wilderness, when Indiana was purely a missionary field. We are
                    doubly grateful to Dickey and Reed and Hall and Johnston not only for their
                    missionary labors but for the documentary records which they have left to us of
                    what they were and what they saw.
            Reed was born in 
                        Granville
                    , 
                        New York
                    , August 27, 1787. So he came to America with the Constitution of
                    his country. He graduated from 
                        Middlebury
                     college, 
                        Vermont
                    , in 1812. He tried teaching and studied law, but the ministry drew
                    him with binding power. His health was not good; he was threatened with
                    tuberculosis. So he turned his face toward the great out doors of the southwest,
                    to seek a more salubrious climate in 
                        Kentucky
                    , with the purpose, too, of bringing the gospel to the outlanders
                    beyond the mountains.
            
            Reed came west through 
                        Virginia
                    , a lonely and perilous journey, but amid mountain scenes of majesty
                    and beauty. He passed the cottages and hovels of the poor, compared to which the
                    homes of the poorest laborers of the northern states seemed to him like little
                    palaces. There he found poverty personified. At one hut a dirty board raised
                    just above the ground served for a table. At another they were without chairs
                    and, as Reed saw it, "what is worse, without a Bible." A boy
                    of ten had never seen a preacher. Reed wished to do them good, so he decided to
                    preach to them, which a cynic might call a questionable service under such
                    conditions. Of silver and gold Reed had but little but what he had of the
                    message of life he gave unto them.
            Reed found religion in a low estate in the back-woods of central 
                        Kentucky
                    . He describes the jerks, the bodily agitations
                    and exercises which often accompanied religious revivals. The jerks affected different persons in different ways. At times the will
                    seemed overcome and people were carried along in excitement by a twitching and
                    jerking of head and hands. Persons often tore their hats and caps, and women
                    tore the combs from their unbobbed hair, leaving it wildly waving upon their
                    shoulders. Some fell down and lay motionless upon the ground, others took to
                    leaping and dancing and whirling like oriental dervishes, shouting and exhorting
                    in a frenzy of excitement.
            Such were some of the manifestations of religion that Reed first witnessed in the
                    west. "You will think," he said in writing to a friend,
                    "that surely these things were not among Presbyterians, but my dear
                    sir, they were."
            Here was need of better leadership and an educated ministry. Reed says there were
                    thirty Baptist preachers in the country about him and not an educated man among
                    them. They cried down learning and considered a salary for a gospel minister as
                    an abomination in the eyes of the Lord not to be endured. Reed heard a Baptist
                    minister descanting upon heaven and the heavenly state. "My dear
                    honeys," he said, "heaven is a 
                        Kentucky
                     of a place." Reed had not found 
                        Kentucky
                     to be altogether a heavenly place. Its winter climate was not so
                    salubrious or pleasant as he had anticipated,  with its changes of forty or fifty degrees within a week. He shivered from
                    cold and lay abed from a fever. One Sunday he could not keep warm preaching in a
                    brick courthouse with a stove fire. The next Sunday he had to pull off his coat
                    ("surtout") in a large log meeting house with all the doors and windows open.
            For a short time, Reed preached on a circuit in 
                        Kentucky
                    . On July 23, 1818, he crossed for the first time into Indiana, in
                    company with Rev. Thomas Cleland, finding a welcome in 
                        Madison
                     at the home of Dr. D. McClure. He went to Charles, ton and met Rev.
                    Thomas Todd, and to 
                        New Albany
                     and met Mr. Joel Scribner, a Presbyterian elder there. After a few
                    weeks he returned to 
                        Kentucky
                     for ordination by the Transylvania presbytery.
            On October 10, 1818, Reed was ordained. This was a solemn ceremony to the young
                    missionary, this laying on of hands and setting him apart to a consecrated
                    service. In the same month (October, 1818) he located in a settled ministry in 
                        New Albany
                    , at a salary of $500.00 a year. Town lots had been laid
                    out in 
                        New Albany
                     in 1813; so when Reed settled there the town was five years old,
                    with a population of about seven hundred. In the Presbyterian church there were
                    fifteen members. There was a steam saw mill in town, several stores,
                    mechanics' shops, and a boat yard for building steamboats. Over the
                    town lay the large trunks of trees which had been felled but not removed. Reed
                    gathered a Sunday School of sixty members, the first ever formed in Indiana. The
                    Presbyterians had no meeting house; the only school house was a miserable log
                    one. In Reed's first visit to Indiana he had preached in all sorts of
                    places, in log court houses, at times in the woods. "The blue arch of
                    heaven was my canopy, and the forest trees were thick on either side,"
                    he said.
            Reed rejoiced that he had come out to this state to "see this poor
                    people who so much loved the preachéd gospel but who have so
                    little."
            The frontiersmen would often come eight, ten, fifteen, or even twenty miles to
                    hear a sermon.
            
            Here at 
                        New Albany
                     Reed commenced single handed. There was not an installed minister
                    of the Presbyterian church in the state. The 
                        New Albany
                     church grew to a membership of thirty-five. 
                        By God's blessing I kept the ground defended, and fortified the
                            post and won some from without to come into the garrison.
                    
                
            His year at 
                        New Albany
                     was one of intense labor. He found the grocery shops. (saloons)
                    open on the Sabbath; soon they were closed. The church meetings were held in the
                    old school house, sometimes in the private houses. The flock grew to thirty-five
                    members under Reed's shepherding.
            Because of depletion by death and removals Reed was led to resign his charge in 
                        New Albany
                    . So far in his western career he had been a volunteer of the
                    gospel. He now began work under a commission of the Missionary society of 
                        Connecticut
                    , in May 1819. He visited the little church at 
                        Corydon
                     which had been gathered together by Rev. John Finley Crowe. He
                    visited Leavenworth and Fredonia and travelled about two hundred and forty miles
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    . He preached the sermon at the installation of Rev. J. M. Dickey at 
                        New Lexington
                    , Indiana, the first formal settlement of a Presbyterian minister in
                    Indiana, (1819). This meeting was in the woods under the shade of forest trees.
                    Reed testifies to the religious friendship of the people; "their
                    manners were plain and easy, Christian and friendly."
            At 
                        Madison
                     Reed met Rev. Thomas C. Searle, who had just arrived and was
                    working under the patronage of the Missionary Society of Young Men in 
                        New York City
                    .
            Reed travelled in the interior of the state distributing Bibles which had been
                    left from a society formed through the agency of Samuel J. Mills, the leader of
                    the praying band under the famous haystack at Williams college, who, with Daniel
                    Smith, had made a tour in these parts under the direction of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Missionary society, in 1814–15.
            In the new and frontier counties of 
                        Monroe
                     and 
                        Owen
                     Reed spent two weeks. The Presbyterian church at 
                        Bloomington
                     was constituted (1819) the first formed by Reed's
                    ministry. Dr. David H. Maxwell, the pillar of the local  church was there. The tradition is that the church
                    was organized in Dr. Maxwell's house. Through Reed's influence
                    and Dr. Maxwell's Baynard R. Hall afterwards came to 
                        Bloomington
                    , to be the principal of the new seminary which the state in 1820
                    decided to establish there.
            Reed returned from this region, the then farthest north, by way of Livonia, west
                    of 
                        Salem
                    , in 
                        Washington County
                    , and visited Rev. W. W. Martin, who had settled there. He then
                    attended synod at 
                        Danville
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , where he met the girl, Elinor Young, who became his wife. She was
                    a sister of Mrs. Hall, the two were daughters of a family of the Second
                    Presbyterian church of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , who had suffered misfortune and had removed to 
                        Kentucky
                     where the daughters taught in a girls' boarding school.
            Mrs. Young's brother, John Holme, the uncle of Mrs. Reed and Mrs. Hall,
                    had bought land in the edge of the New Purchase in 
                        Owen county
                    , about four miles above Gosport, and had settled the family there.
                    Reed went from 
                        Bloomington
                     to their home. They were in the woods with not a cleared field in
                    sight. About five miles from these relatives a little church had been gathered
                    the year before by Rev. J. M. Dickey. In company with his brother-in-law Mr.
                    Hall, Reed went through the woods by the forks of Eel river
                    to the land office at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , about fifty miles away. There he entered a half quarter section of
                    land in the Holme neighborhood.
            In the whole missionary field of Indiana there were about one hundred forty
                    thousand people, scattered along the 
                        Ohio
                     side of the state, along the Ohio river and up
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     from its mouth. There were only sparse settlements between these
                    boundary lines. The central part of the state lately purchased from the Indians
                    was not yet settled.
            From a point just opposite the mouth of the Kentucky river
                    about twelve miles east of 
                        Madison
                    , a line was run north. East of that line was the Synod of 
                        Ohio
                    . A part of the Synod of 
                        Ohio
                     was within the state of Indiana, a strip forty miles from east to
                    west. Within that part of Indiana there were two Presbyterian ministers. The
                    region for one hundred miles west of the north and south line (running  from the mouth of the 
                        Kentucky
                    ) was in the bounds of the 
                        Louisville
                     presbytery, Synod of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Within this extensive region there were five ministers of the
                    General Assembly, one of them nearly superannuated. Only three of them were
                    settled pastors, each with two or three settled places of preaching. There were
                    fourteen infant Presbyterian churches, shepherdless, all planted and watered by
                    missionary effort. The settlers were poor, without money, with but little stock,
                    engaged in opening by hand labor their new farms in a heavily timbered country.
            From this region of southern Indiana, embracing an area three times as large as 
                        Connecticut
                    , Reed sent to the 
                        Connecticut
                     society the Macedonian cry, "Come over into Indiana and
                    help us." The churches must be supplied by self-denying and laborious
                    service. Reed's purpose was to lead the way, to give half his time to a
                    settled church, half to missionary itinerant service, one week at home, the next
                    abroad. There was a vast deal of riding, as the settlements were far apart.
            In October, 1822, Reed arrived again in 
                        Owen county
                    . A house had to be built. It was hard to get labor, since the
                    people were busy with their own log cabins. He labored, himself, but progress
                    was slow and winter closed in early. They moved into their new house the week
                    before Christmas which Reed christened, the "Cottage of
                    Peace." What a spirit of content reigned in his soul! He knew how to
                    abound, but from experience he knew still more how to be abased. In this
                    wilderness cabin there was no loft, no plastering or chinking between the logs.
                    The trial set heavily upon his Elinor, and in that winter, 1822–23,
                    the missionary did not go beyond the bounds of the county except a few times to
                    supply 
                        Bloomington
                    . In two years time Reed received not a dollar in salary from his
                    congregation.
            Located pastors received but little money for their services. They lived off
                    their few acres and from donations of produce. They shared the plain and simple
                    life about them. When the Halls visited the Martins at 
                        Livonia
                    , Mrs. Martin incidentally remarked to Mrs. Hall that for seven
                    entire years she had never seen as much as ten dollars!
            
            No one would accept pay from a preacher, which was well enough since the
                    community thought no prertcher should accept a salary. One preacher travelled
                    1,000 miles through woods and prairies bringing back the 50 cents with which he
                    had started. What he thought would be enough had proved too much!
            In October, 1823, Reed went to presbytery at 
                        Shelbyville
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , then to synod at 
                        Lexington
                    , one hundred fifty miles to presbytery, two hundred to synod. That
                    meeting of presbytery divided the 
                        Louisville
                     presbytery, and formed a new one in Indiana an outcome greatly
                    desired by Indiana friends. At Reed's suggestion this new presbytery
                    was named "
                        Salem
                    ," a name of scriptural significance, though the town of 
                        Salem
                     was old enough to give its name to the presbytery.
            In the spring of 1824 the 
                        Salem
                     presbytery had its first meeting at the town of 
                        Salem
                    . Reed was on the Committee on Rules, and he drew up the report on
                    the state of religion, giving a brief outline of the condition of the country,
                    and setting forth the need for ministers. This was published in the 
                  
                            Connecticut
                         Observer.
            Reed helped to organize the first church at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , the church at 
                        Greencastle
                    , at 
                        Bethlehem
                     in 
                        Washington County
                    , and New Hope in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In the fall of 1823 he took charge of the churches at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                    , giving three-fourths of his time to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , one-fourth to 
                        Bloomington
                    , riding horseback to and fro, the fifty-two miles between.
            In 1824 Mr. Bush arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Prof. Hall settled in 
                        Bloomington
                    . In the spring session of presbytery at 
                        Washington
                    , in 
                        Clark county
                    , Reed preached the opening sermon and the following week he
                    preached the ordination sermon and installed Prof. B. R. Hall over the church in 
                        Bloomington
                    . There were six ordinations that year in Indiana and Reed attended
                    four of them.
            Baynard R. Hall, author of the New Purchase, a valuable book
                    which has been the subject of controversy for nearly a century, calls his
                    brother-in-law, Reed, a Bishop. Henry Ward Beecher, Pastor of
                    the Second Church, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and clerk of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     presbytery for a number of 
                    years, usually in his minutes referred to his fellow presbyters as
                    "bishops," as other ministers did, which was right enough, as
                    they really performed the office of the scriptural bishop. Hall says that when
                    three or four of these bishops came together they usually constituted an
                    ecclestiastical court. A court of this kind was constituted at Reed's
                    cabin in 
                        Owen county
                     in the fall of 1824. Three clergymen composed it, the smallest
                    possible number. Reed was moderator, Bush of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was clerk, Hall, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , was treasurer. Such was the origin of 
                        Wabash
                     presbytery, which, as Hall says, was like Locke's
                    celebrated Fundamental Constitution, the offices and dignities requiring every
                    man in the province. Certain old woodsmen were allowed seats as lay delegates,
                    to open gates, to attend the fires, to hew the wood and draw the water. Hall
                    pays tribute to the worth and wisdom and influence of many of these lay
                    delegates, and urged them to use their privileges of discussion boldly, as by so
                    doing they could make the presbytery a true republican body, the very best form
                    of religious association to influence for good both church and state.
            Hall speaks of the missionary labors of Reed, 
                        a bishop over a vast diocese, through which he was ever riding,
                            preaching, lecturing, praying and catechising, and beyond which he often
                            made excursions, to bestow gratuitous and extra labor on the
                            "Macedonians," —i. e. the wilderness folks
                            who had no pastor to care for them. His public discourses averaged,
                            therefore, one a day, to say nothing of baptisms, visits to the sick,
                            funeral services, with many other things. The miles he rode were about
                            one hundred each week, or some where near five thousand annually.
                            Indeed, he lived on horseback.1
                  
                    
                
            And when he came home to his cabin it was not to retire to his study, as he fain
                    would have done, but to the cornfield with plow or hoe or with his axe to the
                    clearing. Like Paul he had his living to make, and with harder work than tent
                    making.
            Hall describes the perils of wilderness and flood to which the western missionary
                    was subjected. Once Reed started through the unsettled forest to an appointment.
                    The way was next to impassable. At sunset he was alone in the wilds, 
                  
                     1 Hall, The New Purchase.
               
                     fourteen miles from his destination. At
                    dark he found a deserted Indian hovel. He resolved to put up there rather than
                    camp out or travel in the dark. He had barely time to get under the shelter of
                    the half-roof less shanty when a storm broke about him, in pitchy blackness.
                    There were floods of rain, flashes of lightning, with its appalling thunder.
                    Amid the flashes Reed discerned a rude clap-board bedstead fastened to a side of
                    the hut, and on this fixture, after feeling with the but of his whip to make
                    sure that no chance snake was making its nest there, Reed passed that dreary
                    night, hungry, wet, and melancholy. Such were the perils and sacrifices of the
                    fathers in those missionary days.
            There were perils by flood. Ability to swim was a valuable asset. Swollen creeks
                    became raging rivers, and the missionary under appointment could not await the
                    subsidence of the waters. He would ride far up stream to find a ford or swim his
                    horse through, at times losing his saddle bags and once saving himself only by
                    holding on to the tail of his horse. Such was the experience of a riding
                    companion of Reed. Reed had made the crossing, and in his eagerness to hook the
                    saddle bags, leaned too far over the bank, the bank gave way and he was hurled
                    into the water above his depth and had difficulty in saving himself from a
                    watery grave. All this the preacher would undergo to keep with punctuality a
                    gratuitous appointment, and then he might find a cabin congregation of six,—the man and his wife, the children and the help. This thimbleful of folks would be wofully disappointed
                    if the minister came not. So the minister went at peril of life and health.1
            
            Hall gives us some account of his coming to this synod a hundred years ago. In
                    the summer of that year Hall's uncle, John Holme, (whom he calls
                    "Uncle John Seymour" in his book) had been appointed a lay
                    delegate to the synod. He obtained Hall's promise to go along. Bush, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , joined them. The three set out for the convention, or the
                    "Big Meeting," as such gatherings were then called. Hall
                    describes the journey:
            
               
                  1 Hall, The New Purchase.
            
            
            
                    The weather was luxurious, and the ride across the small prairies was to me,
                        who now for the first time saw these natural meadows, indescribably
                        bewitching. This first glimpse of the prairie world was like beholding an
                        enchanted country. It reminded Hall of the enchanted land in
                        Pilgrim's Progress. Bunyan "must have imagined a world
                        like this meadowy land of wild and fragrant scents wafted by balmy airs from
                        countless myriads of blossoms of flowers."1
               
                
            Upon reaching 
                        Vincennes
                     the delegates were quartered upon the citizens and he says 
                        such kindness as belongs preeminently to the West and South was bestowed
                            upon us during the convention.
                    
                
            Hall rejoiced that Presbyterian truth and light had travelled so far westward. He
                    hoped they might shine out far and wide over the noble plains and dispel the
                    gloom of the mighty forests, "since the march of the mind is only an
                    evil without the march of the Bible." He noticed that the Roman
                    Catholic Cathedral was just going up at the time of the first meeting of this
                    Protestant Synod in 1826. He referred to "the sacred walls of the
                    Cathedral rising brick by brick."
            All travellers of the time speak of the dense forests of this heavily wooded
                    country. There were nearly fifty varieties of wood in Indiana, the beech, the
                    mighty poplars and sycamores and oaks, walnut and wild cherry, maple and shell
                    bark hickory, elms, mulberry and honey locusts, the ash and the haw; and
                    underneath the spice and the pawpaw, the hazel nut, and all sorts of bushes,
                    briars, thorns and creepers, entangling and interlacing vines of the wild grape,
                    making a thicket dense and impenetrable. This dense foliage was magnificently
                    glorious in the autumnal colors. 
                        No artificial dyes could rival the scarlet, the crimson, the orange, the
                            brown of the sylvan dresses,—giant robes and scarfs, hung
                            with indescribable grandeur and grace, over the rough arms and rude
                            trunks of the forest.
                    
                
            Amid such forests the missionary horseman travelled. He was guided not by the
                    light of the sun, moon, or stars, but by ruts and traces. No wonder that
                    Hall's party returning from synod, in their attempt to find a short cut
                    through the 
                  
                     1
                            The New Purchase, 288.
               
                     woods, swamps, and tangled thickets, lost
                    their way in the wilderness. Perforce they put up for the night at a humble
                    cabin, one room, "two beds," "all tuk up by the
                    mother and children,"—in one bed three, in the other four.
                    Evidently there was no room in the beds. So our devoted bishops, shepherds lost
                    from their sheep, spread their horse blankets on the puncheon boards,
                    transformed their saddle bags into pillows and lay their weary and hungry bodies
                    upon the floor. But sleep was mostly confined to the regular beds. A motherly
                    swine and a litter of pigs were beneath the puncheon floor and the fleas came
                    through. Amid the bites, the grunts, the squeaks and the shuffles,
                    nature's "sweet restorer" was not easily induced. By
                    daylight, or before, the riders were again in their saddles, to seek their way
                    out.
            Pioneering came later in northern Indiana though the devotion and sacrifice were
                    just as great. One of the most noted of the pioneers of that region was Rev.
                    Martin M. Post, who reached the trading post of 
                        Logansport
                     on Christmas day, 1829. There he found a community of some thirty
                    or forty families. Post gathered a prayer meeting about him during the week of
                    his arrival, and in a little over a year as the result of his work a church was
                    organized of thirty-one members,—which has been called "The
                    beginning of organized Presbyterianism north of the 
                        Wabash
                     in Indiana."1 Outside of 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     about three hundred people at this time lived in Indiana north of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            Post was born at 
                        Cornwall
                    , 
                        Vermont
                    , in 1805. He graduated at 
                        Middlebury
                     college (the college from which Reed was sent out) and from Andover
                    theological seminary, in 1829. He came to 
                        Logansport
                     the year of his graduation from Andover.
            On Christmas day, 1859, thirty years after coming to 
                        Logansport
                    , Post preached a memorial sermon in which he reviewed his early
                    life on the frontier. He had heard on the 
                        Ohio
                     that lands which had been bought in 1826 from the 
                        Miami
                     and Pottawatami Indians, had been opened up to the immigrant. There
                    in the rich valley of the upper 
                        Wabash
                     a new town had been started under the auspices of enterprising
                        
                  
                     1 Rev. S. A. Stewart, Presbytery of 
                                    Logansport
                                
                     .
               
                     men. Then 
                        Logansport
                     was less than two years from the dominion of the unbroken forest.
                    There the U. S. government had an agency for Indian trade. 
                        Cass county
                     had just been organized, and throughout the county a few log cabins were dispersed, few and far between, on the
                    confines where civilization had overtaken the savage life. Around the post were
                    wild forest and prairie, a dark and massy solitude. Post had come by nine days
                    hard riding from 
                        Madison
                     to Logans-port, by way of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and LaFayette. The roads were a morass, a compound of mud, water,
                    snow, and ice. There were no bridges. He swam his horse across high waters and
                    through angry currents. Mail came twice a month, in times of delay once in two
                    months. Post's own resources for five months were the contents of his
                    saddle bags. He went east for his bride, and on the return trip they came down
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     from 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     by a kind of a dug-out canoe, called a pirogue,
                    the bridegroom being the boatman.
            Post testifies to the worthy character of the settlers. There he found mirthful
                    and gladsome spirits, men and women of neighborly kindness, warm sociability,
                    high enterprise and public spirit, of native nobility, fine mental qualities,
                    decision and manliness. But there was woful lack of religion. "The
                    Indians were fed, paid, made drunk and fleeced." The Sabbath was
                    abolished. There were no ten commandments. Civil and religious bonds were
                    relaxed. There was no church, no preaching at regular periods in the whole
                    county. Two women constituted the entire element of Presbyterianism within twenty miles of 
                        Logansport
                    . Within forty miles there was but one organized church.
            Into these conditions came this one man, Martin M. Post, well educated, a devoted
                    servant of God, a prophet and preacher of righteousness, a lover of his fellow
                    men, with the spirit of the martyr and the missionary. One need not attempt to
                    describe the blessing and the benefit he brought to that frontier society where
                    he lived through the next generation and where his name will live in honor
                    through the generations to come.
            Post ministered in country churches; he canvassed the county supplying Bibles; he
                    organized Sabbath schools and  conducted the
                    only one in the town of 
                        Logansport
                     for seven years; he witnessed the horrible ravages suffered from
                    intoxicating drinks, and did what he could to promote temperance, inducing the
                    signing of the old fashioned pledge; he went on long rides of from sixty to two
                    hundred miles to the meetings of presbytery and synod; he journeyed to 
                        Peru
                    , 
                        Marion
                    , 
                        South Bend
                    , 
                        La Porte
                    , 
                        Michigan City
                    , 
                        Valparaiso
                    , helping to organize churches. Much of his time was given to the
                    work of teaching in the 
                        Logansport
                     seminary, of which he was principal for a time.
            Post died October 11, 1876, nearly seventeen years after he delivered this
                    memorial sermon. He closed that sermon in 1859, with these memorable words:
                        
                        After another thirty years, when the last Sabbath in December shall dawn,
                            its right will fall some where on my grave. I am grateful should I then
                            be remembered at all, on earth or in heaven, if it may be as a humble
                            morning star that goes before and is lost in the beams of day.
                    
                
            The light falls on the grave of this noble evangel in the 
                        Logansport
                     cemetery.
            Time fails me to tell of others whose services were as devoted and whose names
                    were as worthy of honor. But brief mention must be made of three more of the
                    earliest pioneers.
            John Todd, born in 1772, of a 
                        Virginia
                     Scotch-Irish Presbyterian family, preached in Indiana as early as
                    1808. He became a settled pastor at 
                        Charlestown
                     in 1817. There Reed met him in 1818, and there his wilderness
                    manse, with its latch string always out, became the "missionary
                    stopping place," where Martin, Crowe, Dickey, Hall, Orin, Fowler, and
                    others, always found a hearty welcome.
            James Balch, another pioneer Presbyterian minister, born in 
                        Mecklinburg county
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , in 1750, came from there to Turman's creek, 
                        Sullivan county
                    , Indiana, in 1816. He was at the time 66 years of age. There he
                    built a church house of poplar logs, organized a congregation, and preached in
                    it for five years, when he died (1821). In 1823 James Crawford, a Presbyterian
                    minister and a graduate of 
                        Princeton
                    ,  came from 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, to Turman township, 
                        Sullivan county
                    , restored the Balch congregation, and there organized a Sunday
                    school, which, together with the church, he served for several years. His mother
                    and his wife lie buried in the same cemetery with Rev. Balch. Crawford later
                    moved to 
                        Iowa
                    , where he preached until his death, about 1852.1
            
            Rev. William W. Martin, who lies buried at 
                        Livonia
                    , so long the scene of his labors, was in many respects
                    "the noblest Roman of them all." He was among the older in
                    years, and was better known throughout the region for the eloquence and power of
                    his preaching. Edson says that if "providence had sent William Wirt to
                    hear "Father Martin" preach, the famous description of James
                    Waddel's eloquence might fitly have had a companion-piece."
            Martin was also famous for the inordinate length of his prayers. They may have
                    been eloquent, too, but there is satisfaction in believing, as we are bound to
                    do, that his prayers were addressed to the throne of grace rather than to his
                    Hoosier audience. It was an age of long prayers, more than congregations would
                    stand up under now, when the ministers prayed, if not with vain repetition, yet
                    after the fashion of the Gentiles who supposed they would be heard for their
                    much speaking. It is said of Mr. Martin that his prayer before the sermon
                    commonly consumed three-quarters of an hour. "I have timed
                    him", says one, "when his prayer lasted an hour and ten
                    minutes". A son of Father Dickey measured a prayer that was an hour and
                    thirty minutes long."2 In those days going to
                    church was an all day affair, and the sermons were correspondingly long, two
                    hours or more not being out of the ordinary. A meagre hour would be consumed
                    before the preacher reached his fifth point, and he often had to go through his
                        tenthly, or more.
            Martin was born in 
                        Bedford
                     county, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1781. A religious mother greatly influenced his early
                    childhood, and at the age of ten he was indulging the hope that he might become
                    a Christian minister. In 1794 the family having 
                  
                     1 A note to the author from Hon. John C. Chaney,
                            of 
                                Sullivan
                            , Ind.
                  
                     2 Edson, Early Presbyterianism,
                            105.
               
                     suffered from losses in the Continental
                    currency, moved to the wilds of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Young Martin studied under Rev. John Lyle, in the Academy at 
                        Paris
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and he was licensed as a minister by the 
                        West Lexington
                     presbytery in 1812.
            Disapproving of slavery Martin resolved to find a home in a free state. He first
                    crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     into Indiana in 1817, on a tour of inspection. He administered the
                    communion to a small Presbyterian band near 
                        Salem
                     in that year, and in 1818 he removed to Indiana where he spent the
                    rest of his days. He served as pastor at 
                        Salem
                    , Blue River, and 
                        Livonia
                    . After thirteen years at 
                        Livonia
                     he resigned and became a wandering bishop. He was pastor for a year
                    at 
                        Paoli
                    , for a year at 
                        Princeton
                    , and for a time at 
                        South Hanover
                    . In 1835 he resumed his pastorate at 
                        Livonia
                    , and there one mile southwest of the village, on a farm of eighty
                    acres presented by his congregation, he established his hospitable home. There
                    was a tavern in the town but Martin's home was much the more popular
                    stopping place.
            In 1843 he moved again from Livonia to take the pulpit in 
                        Bloomington
                    , and there he lived for two years, partly for the purpose of
                    overseeing the education of his sons at the State university. One of these sons
                    became a great educator and an international statesman, a man of world
                    distinction, Dr. W. A. P. Martin, who was for a half century president of the
                    Imperial university of Pekin and an interpreter of 
                        China
                     to the western world. In 1845 Rev. Mr. Martin came back to Livonia,
                    his first and constant love, and there he died, September 10, 1850. His dust
                    lies in the cemetery at 
                        Livonia
                    . Martin's three sons became ministers, and five out of his
                    seven daughters married Presbyterian ministers. His life was fruitful, indeed,
                    in more ways than one. 
                        The position of Mr. Martin among the Indiana pioneers was unique. He was
                            essentially an orator. Of slender form, quite six feet in height, and of
                            fair complexion, he was in youth a very handsome man and was beautiful
                            even in age. He was emotional in his nature, full of sentiment and of
                            tears. His voice was both sweet and powerful. It is not strange that
                            such gifts commanded the attention of the populace upon the frontier.
                            Nor is it surprising that under the control of a piety uncommonly warm
                            and true he was sometimes in the pulpit in the highest  degree eloquent, and especially during the
                            sacramental seasons in the woods which captivated his heart and stirred
                            him to the depths.1
                  
                    
                
            Such were the men. Why were they here? What did they stand for? What were they
                    striving for? What standards of life were they holding up before the hardy men
                    on the frontier?
            In the first place they sought to glorify God and to bring men to enjoy him
                    forever. To them religion was the chief concern of life, essential to the
                    redemption of the individual and of society. To that cause they had consecrated
                    their lives. The idea of God was to them the greatest idea that had ever entered
                    the human mind. They lived to instill that idea in the minds of men.
            In the second place they strove for righteousness among men, that men might act
                    justly toward one another and live peaceably together. Frontier conditions were
                    conditions of strife and violence. There were hospitality and neighborliness,
                    but also much of outlawry and crime; men were prone to do what was right in
                    their own eyes. The Presbyterian missionary brought the sanctions of religion to
                    the just powers of the state; they helped to establish law and order and to
                    bring bad men under restraint. Many frontiersmen then were no better than the
                    nations are now. Fighting and brute force were common in the settlement of
                    quarrels; the Presbyterian preacher stood for law, for reason, for adjudication
                    of courts, and for neighborly conciliation.
            In the third place they stood for temperance and sobriety. They had need to;
                    liquors were sold without restraint, as freely as groceries. The temperance
                    movement was not far advanced on the frontier. An early temperance society in
                    1810 pledged itself as follows: 
                        Any member of this Association who shall be convicted of intoxication
                            shall be fined two shillings, unless the act shall take place on the
                            Fourth of July, or on any regularly appointed military muster.
                    
                
            The laws were lax, men's conduct was loose, not to say disgraceful, on
                    these holidays and public occasions. But military and patriotic drunkenness was
                    the only kind that could 
                  
                     1 Edson, Early
                        Presbyterianism.
               
                     get by with a clean bill. In 1831 a
                    Moravian missionary visited 
                        Madison
                    , while Mr. Johnston was the Presbyterian pastor there. Johnston
                    entertained him at his home as the custom was in the limited but hospitable
                    homes of pioneer ministers. This missionary says in his Journal: 
                        At militia muster candidates appeared, for Congress, for Governor, for
                            the Assembly. Great excesses were committed. I have rarely seen so many
                            people drunk and no where so many brawls and rows. The populace of
                            Indiana develops a fearful rudeness on such occasions.1
                  
                    
                
            Rev. James H. Johnston tells us in his noted sermon of 1865, that at the third
                    meeting of this synod, held at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1828, more than ordinary interest in religion prevailed in the
                    community. The synod had appointed a sermon on temperance to be preached at this
                    meeting. The time had been set for the sermon. The young brother in charge of
                    the church at 
                        Vincennes
                     came to the synod disquieted because of his fear that a sermon on
                    temperance might disturb the interest in religion then prevailing in his
                    congregation, and he requested that the minister who had been appointed to
                    preach on temperance might select some other theme more appropriate to the
                    occasion. Men about to join the church, and some already in, might not like what
                    the minister had to say. A temperance sermon might be divisive and disturb the
                    state of religion so happily manifest. The brother was assured that he had no
                    cause for fear. Johnston himself preached that temperance sermon, from the words
                    of Habakkuk, Woe unto him that giveth his neighbor drink, that putteth the
                    bottle to him, and makest him drunken also.
            The sermon commended itself to the reason and conscience of all, and, far from
                    disturbing religious interest, it aroused the concern of men for their personal
                    salvation; the interest continued and increased to such a degree that sixty-three persons were added to the church on the profession
                    of their faith.2
            
            
               
                  1 Ludwig David Von Schweinitz, Journal, a forth-coming publication of the Indiana Historical Society.
                        There is ample other testimony to this effect. So the Volstead act was
                        causing excessive drinking on the Indiana frontier a hundred years ago. It
                        is reported that one Presbytery had a rule that the bottle shall not stand
                        on the Moderator's table while the Presbytery is in session.
               
                  2 Johnston, Historical Discourse,
                        14.
            
            
            The Presbyterian minister pointed the way out and helped to lead therein.
                    Presbyteries went upon record early and repeatedly in rebuke and restraint of
                    drunkenness.
            Temperance societies were formed, Lyman Beecher's sermon on temperance
                    was widely circulated, sermons were assigned to be preached on the subject in
                    every pulpit, and the seed of total abstinence was planted, and sessions were
                    urged to find out how many of their members were engaged in the liquor traffic.
                    The leaven was working.
            At the very first meeting of this synod, in 1826 an overture was presented
                    calling upon synod 
                        to consider whether some plan may not be adopted to put a stop in some
                            measure [not a full stop] to the growing evils resulting from the
                            intemperate use of spirituous liquors.
                    It was a moderate overture; it might be considered a little moist today,
                    proposing not abstinence nor prohibition, but a "moderate" use
                    of intoxicants. The significant thing is that it was a great advance. The
                    overture was adopted, and Giddings, Hall, and Crowe were appointed a committee
                    to consider the matter and report. They reported and a form of petition was
                    adopted to be extensively circulated and forwarded to the legislature of Indiana
                    "for the passage of laws to restrain the ruinous traffic in
                    intoxicating liquors."
            These men were in the vanguard, on the picket line. They were appealing for law,
                    and the prohibition movement was beginning a hundred years ago. Those people
                    have something to learn who think the 18th amendment was "put
                    over" on the unsuspecting inhabitants of Manhattan island while their
                    backs were turned and their boys were in the world war across the sea. They
                    ought to read the history of a hundred years or more of the movement against the
                    public traffic in intoxicants. That cause made slow and tedious progress, but it
                    has been steady and sure, and it is gratifying for us to know that the pioneer
                    Presbyterian ministers were in the fight from the beginning. It is not likely
                    that their successors are going to help turn back the hands on the clock of
                    time.
            So, also, on slavery. The early church in Indiana held up the standard of the
                    gospel, appealing to their fellow-citizens 
                    to let the oppressed go free. The second meeting of this synod, at 
                        Salem
                    , in 1827, gave forth a strong utterance against slavery. These men
                    brought forward the strong anti-slavery deliverance of the General Assembly of
                    1818 in which the slave system was denounced as. 
                        outraging the most precious and sacred rights of human nature, being
                            utterly inconsistent with the law of God and the principles of the
                            gospel.
                    As to the immorality and injustice of slavery these men then held that
                    there was but one opinion among Christian men. Their desire was to efface this
                    blot on our holy religion and to obtain the complete abolition of slavery
                    throughout the world. A strong memorial to the General Assembly was adopted,
                    probably drawn up by Crowe, who was chairman of the committee.
            It was not so easy, by 1827, to get this matter before the Assembly. Cotton lands
                    were rising and so were cotton hands, and southern slavery was rapidly becoming
                    a "divine institution." The assembly's committee on
                    bills, and overtures, in 1828, said that the agitation of the subject
                    "would be productive of no beneficial results." But there were
                    Presbyterian abolitionists in Indiana who brought the matter forward again in
                    synod, at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1828. Dickey, Thomson, and Butler were appointed to prepare
                    another letter to the Assembly on the same subject. They were determined never
                    to go back, not to retreat a single inch and they would be heard. And this was
                    three years before Garrison founded his Liberator, and these
                    men like Crowe and Dickey were mostly from the south. The anti-slavery spirit of
                    Indiana did not come from 
                        New England
                    , it came mostly from 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        Virginia
                     and the 
                        Carolinas
                    . My own grandfather, an old Covenanter elder, together with his
                    pastor, Hugh McMillan, presented an anti-slavery memorial to the legislature of 
                        South Carolina
                     as early as 1826. Four years later he moved to Indiana, and I have
                    always heard that there was a connection between his politics and his
                    pilgrimage.
            If you will look at the records of presbyteries and synods in Indiana for thirty
                    years prior to the Civil War, you will  find
                    repeated memorials on slavery. I cannot recite them here, but what would you
                    expect of men like Beecher and Cleland, Wylie and Thompson, Sickles and Lowry,
                    Johnston and Crowe?
            In the next place these Presbyterian pioneers stood for education. What they did
                    for this cause is too long a story to recite here. It involved the founding and
                    the progress of 
                        Hanover
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     colleges, the establishment of girls' seminaries, the
                    securing of qualified teachers for elementary schools, and the promotion of
                    secondary education in every possible way.
            It is well known that in nearly every community the Presbyterian preacher was
                    also the teacher. At one meeting the synod urged its ministers to spend part of
                    their time in teaching.
            There was alarming and woeful ignorance to be relieved. In 1816 Rev. Nathan B.
                    Derrow, a missionary of the 
                        Connecticut
                     society, came through Indiana. He was one of the Presbyterian
                    pioneers. He noticed extreme ignorance, whole families being without a book of
                    any kind. The tracts presented to them could not be read. The people were the
                    prey of false teachers. Illiterate and enthusiastic preachers were numerous, but
                    an educated ministry was lacking. In the meeting of this synod a hundred years
                    ago an overture was proposed to establish a western theological seminary, at
                    Charles-town, Indiana, which was described as a town easy of access, healthy,
                    central, better than Allegheny or Walnut Hills, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , which were regarded as too far east. This was the beginning of a
                    movement that culminated in McCormick Seminary.
            The Presbyterian ministers that had come west were educated men and for this
                    reason they were sometimes denounced as "hi-fa-lu-tin big
                    bugs" and "aristocrats". But of such educated men
                    there were not enough by far, and the General Assembly and the missionary
                    societies could not supply them. This was the reason for the rise of the
                    Cumberland Presbyterians. It was not only the hard points of Calvinism or a
                    natural leaning toward Arminianism among the masses. The people of the west were
                    crying for spiritual light and guidance; 
                    therefore men of piety who could exhort and pray took the lead, unlettered
                    though they were. The Presbyterian church seemed unable to supply the need.
            From this condition also, rose the demand among Presbyterians for seminaries and
                    higher academies. It should not be forgotten that 
                        Hanover
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     owe their origin and prosperity entirely to Presbyterian efforts.
            As late as 1858 Dr. Crowe appealed to the churches in a powerful message. He told
                    of the early conditions as he remembered them. 
                        In 1824 when the population of Indiana had reached about 200,000 with
                            about 50 churches of all kinds, there were only seven ministers in the 
                                Salem
                             presbytery, which embraced almost the entire state of
                            Indiana and a large part of 
                                Illinois
                            . The harvest was immense but the laborers were few. What
                            could be done to increase the number of laborers? men who were ready to
                            encounter the toils and privations of the settlements in the wilderness.
                            Those sent out by the Assembly were too ready to return, while others
                            fell victims of the climatic fever. The only thing was to raise the
                            laborers upon the ground.
                    
                
            In the fall of 1825, a year before this synod was organized, the Presbytery of 
                        Salem
                     appointed a committee to devise a plan for a presbyterial academy. 
                        Hanover
                     was chosen as the place, and the manual labor system as the plan,
                    the same plan by which 
                        Wabash
                     was started, and 
                        Knox
                     college in 
                        Illinois
                    . Self-support for the boys was essential.
            The pastor at 
                        Hanover
                    , (Mr. Crowe) was appointed to organize the school and take charge
                    of it until a teacher could be obtained. 
                        On January 1, 1827 he opened a Grammar School on his own premises in a
                            small log building in his back yard. The school consisted of six boys,
                            not one of whom was pious though all were sons of the church. This
                            little grammar school solemnly dedicated to Almighty God as a nursery
                            for the ministry, was the nucleus of 
                                Hanover
                             College.1
                  
                    
                
            In 1828 the school was incorporated, in the fall of 1829 it was taken under the
                    care of the synod and became a synodical school. Rev. Dr. Matthews of 
                        Virginia
                     was elected professor of theology and in 1830 he moved with his
                    family to 
                        Hanover
                    . In 1833 
                        Hanover
                     became a college and within 25 years thereafter out of its 223
                    graduates 126 were Presbyterian 
                  
                     1 Johnston, A Ministry of Forty
                            Years.
               
                     ministers or students of theology, and 130
                    other students entered the ministry without graduating. So 
                        Hanover
                     had done much to prepare laborers for the great harvest field of
                    the west.
            Here is an illustration of the kind of thing that happened. Charles K. Thompson
                    and William H. Bruner, hearing that Rev. John F. Crowe had started a school for
                    young men, determined to go. They lived here at 
                        Vincennes
                    . On November 24, 1828, they started to 
                        Hanover
                    . They hired a man for $10.00 to take them in a one horse
                    wagon. They were five days on the road, camping out under the trees at night,
                    except on one night when the snow drove them to a village inn. Crowe was then
                    teaching in a stone church with twenty boys in attendance. Thompson graduated
                    with the first class (1834) with six others. He married a daughter of Dr. Crowe,
                    and he became an evangel for the gospel for 35 years in Indiana, in the
                    northwestern part of the state. He ventured into godless neighborhoods, where
                    there was no church, no Sabbath, where no sermon had been preached for ten
                    years. There he built a church. He labored in needy neighborhoods, never in all
                    his life receiving a salary of over $900. He died in 1872 and is
                    buried in "Upper Church" in 
                        Knox county
                    .
            The same story is true of 
                        Wabash
                    , which had its origin in the efforts of five home
                        missionaries who had early selected the upper Wabash
                    valley as their field of labor.
            One of the earliest of these was Rev. James Thomson, who settled in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in November, 1827. These men sought an institution of learning
                    under good religious influences. None then existed north of 
                        Bloomington
                     and that was a state institution.
            In the fall of 1832 the first step was taken in a meeting at the home of Rev. Mr.
                    Thomson. The two Thomsons were there, (one a Thompson) and Ellis and Edmund O.
                    Hovey, Gilliland and McConnel. They had been imploring aid of educated ministers
                    from the east but in four years only two additional ministers had been sent out.
                    They would therefore raise their own. Help came from citizens of Crawfordsrille.
                    Hon Williamson Dunn, who had carried his son on horseback through the woods to 
                        Bloomington
                     for his education,  donated a
                    tract of fifteen acres on which the 
                        Wabash
                     trustees selected a site for the building in the forest. Here in
                    the midst of nature's unbroken loneliness these Presbyterian pioneers
                    consecrated their enterprise. One of the first things they did, for which the
                    blessing of posterity will always rest upon them, was to bring Caleb Mills into
                    Indiana.
            They had early troubles from loss by fire. In 1846 it was reported that all
                    college debts were paid except $6,700 due on professors'
                    salaries. The professors could be held off. They were mostly preachers, anyhow,
                    and preachers and teachers expected very little here below in those pioneer
                    days. From Professor Hovey's Historical Sketch of 
                            Wabash
                        
               , (1857) we learn that of the 111 graduated 
                        42 were ministers of the gospel, 100 have been teachers in schools and
                            academies, and four professors in the state.
                    All this goes to the account of Presbyterian influence in early Indiana
                    education.
            Those were the days of small things. Professors' salaries were
                    $500 or $600, yet they repeatedly relinquished parts of
                    the amounts promised them. Deficiencies were generally met in that way. As late
                    as 1849 
                        Hanover
                     reported that her whole income from fees, invested funds, and
                    expectations from the Educational Board had been swollen (that was the term
                    used) to $4000.00. With that little sum the college was run and five
                    professors and one tutor were paid, or promised, their salaries.
            The Latins have given us the maxim. "Nothing but good concerning the
                    dead". Shall we speak nothing but eulogy and praise concerning the
                    departed pioneers? History is inexorable. The record reveals what we would
                    reasonably expect that they were not all saints. There was contention among
                    them, and at times they seemed to think more of religious controversy than of
                    the conversion of sinners. The old Scotch was in them, and sometimes old Scotch
                    whisky. They trusted the Lord expecting to find Him right nine times out of ten,
                    but with a feeling that even the Lord needed to be argued with once in a while.
            There was schism, intolerance, heresy trials. Wheelock of 
                        Indianapolis
                     said he was arraigned by that presbytery because  he refused to preach that hell was lined with
                    infants. (Minutes of Presbytery, October, 1832.) Bush, a man of piety and
                    learning was made uncomfortable in the church. He retired to scholarly studies,
                    to the preparation of his critical notes on the books of the old Testament and
                    to his eastern professorship of oriental languages, and then went to the
                    Swedenborgian church.
            Presbyteries spent hours in trying persons accused, or in discussing
                    insignificant questions; whether if one parent were an unbeliever, both might
                    stand before the congregation in presenting a child for baptism; whether the
                    help of the American Home missionary society should be accepted, since that body
                    was outside the fold; whether an ordained minister from another presbytery or
                    from the Congregationalists should be received without examination. They were
                    strong on examinations, and though they were crying for more ministers they
                    proposed to keep up the bars, to maintain the standards, and to let no man in to
                    shepherd a fold who was not sound on the five points of Calvinism.
            The elders were as bad as the preachers. Rev. John M. Bishop says that when he
                    first saw Charles C. Beatty in 1870, Beatty told him that when he first met his
                    appointment in the woods of 
                        Parke county
                     in 1822, before he was permitted to preach the faithful elder
                    Buchanan asked to see his certificate and commission. A man's license
                    to preach may be in his preaching, but the old elder had a sense of order and to
                    him the license rested also on the orderly apostolic succession. Beatty had
                    travelled on horse back from 
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , to 
                        Parke county
                    , preaching all the way, but not before had he been so challenged.
            The condition under which these men lived is gone. The wilderness is gone. The
                    personal isolation is gone. The problems they faced are now no more. We live in
                    an age as remote from theirs as theirs was from the age of the patriarchs. We
                    have come to this convention in ways of which their wildest flights of
                    imagination could never have conceived. We are abiding here in the enjoyment of
                    conveniences and luxuries which, so far as their hopes and dreams could see,
                    mankind could never attain. But are we, therefore, better  men? Those brave men met their own problems. They
                    faced their own future.
            So, indeed, must we. For an hour we have ascended a mountain top to look over
                    past years that have gone forever. But it is not in the past that we are called
                    to live. It is the future of the church that demands our attention. The church
                    today is facing more serious and more difficult problems than those
                    self-sacrificing men knew who founded this synod a hundred years ago. The test
                    of our faith is just as severe. Will the church today respond as faithfully to
                    the call? Is it ready to offer to men a gospel of love, of justice and fair
                    dealing to all classes, of tolerance, forbearance, and free discussion, of
                    righteousness and peace among nations? We are no longer remote from one another,
                    no longer isolated. We are socialized,—not even the nation can live
                    in isolation from the rest of the world. It is the function of the church to
                    help make this powerful nation a great instrument of service for humanity, a
                    leader in all movements for world peace and the abolition of brutal war, the
                    greatest scourge of the human race. It was exactly that motive, to bring order
                    and peace where there were violence and strife, that prompted the pioneer
                    ministers on this frontier.
            These men of light and learning who came with the gospel to our Indiana frontier
                    a hundred years ago were thought to have gone beyond the pale of society.
                    Professor Frederick J. Turner calls attention to a notable saying of Horace
                    Bush-nell made in 1819 (Yale Review, July, 1926). Speaking of these pioneer
                    fathers Dr. Bushnell said: 
                        They let their life go. They threw it away for the benefit of the
                            generation to come. They will have to grow up in rudeness and barbarity,
                            and it will require two generations to civilize their habit.
                    
                
            That was a speech of little faith. The leaven of the gospel did its work more
                    rapidly than was anticipated. These men, like Abraham of old, heard the call of
                    the West, and they went out into a country that they knew not of, and their
                    faith, too, has been counted unto them for righteousness.
            Today we bless their memories and recall their sacrifices with gratitude.
         
         
         
            Memoir of Enoch Parr
            1808–1851
            FAMILY RECORD
            Enoch Parr was born November the 27th 1785. Died July 24th 1851. Nancy Carr Parr
                    [his wife]. was born March the 20th 1791 and died June the 5th 1830.
            
               Malinda Parr was born July the 10th 1813 about sundown on satterday.
               Samuel Parr was born on March the 11th 1815 in the afternoon on satterday.
                        Died November 30th 1847.
               Thomas Carr Parr was born February the 24th 1818 about 3 o'clock
                        in the Morning tusday. Died February 25th 1847.
               David Parr was born on tuesday August the 7th 1821 about 3
                        o'clock in the afternoon. Died December 22nd 1899.
               John Parr was born May the 5th 1821 about sun up on Died November 6th
                        1906.
               Morgan Parr was born March the 17th 1827 in the afternoon on Died December
                        31st 1846.
               
                        Elisha Parr was born May the 10th 1830 about 3 o'clock on
                            munday. Died November 17th 1901.
                        Ruth Parr was born May the 16th 1799 and married to Enoch Parr January
                            the 31st 1833 by this marrage
                    
               Hannah Parr Kerns was born January the 19th 1834 five minutes after ten
                        o'clock P. S.
               Nancy Parr Drummond was [born] January the 19th 1834 ten minutes after ten
                        o'clock P. S. on Sunday.
               Sary Parr was born August the 22d 1835 on satterday about 4
                        o'clock.
               Rebekah Parr was [born] January the 30th between 3 and 4 o'clock
                        on munday morning 1837.
               Susan Parr Drummond was born February the 4th 1839 on munday at 10
                        o'clock at night
               Ruth anna Parr Mead was born July the 14th 1840 on tuesday evening at 9
                        o'clock.
               Enoch Parr was born October the 29th 1842. Died September 27th
                    1906.
            
            Marriages
            
               Joseph McCoskey to ________ Wier
               Thomas McCoskey to July Carr
               
               Felix Huston and Huldah Carr
               Ally Stewart to Charlotte Lefler
            
            
                    I leave you here a little book That you may look upon That you may see your
                        father's face When he is dead and gone John Roger Somer
                
            CHAPTER FIRST
            
            I was born on the 27th of November 1785 and was the son of Arthur Parr by his
                    marriage with Mary commonly called Polly Morgan. My father was the son of Arthur
                    Parr who was killed at 
                        Hillsborough
                     in N. Carolina and who left a widow and six children. From my grand
                    mother my father learned that her husband's father was named John and
                    that he come from 
                        England
                    . My mothers ancesters generally come from 
                        Wales
                     her fathers name was James Morgan his mothers name was Molly
                        Davis.1
            
            At the age of five years I was sent to a school kept by my uncle James Morgan for
                    three months and at the age of six and seven I was sent to school three months
                    and at the age of eight I was sent one year and at the age of eleven I went to
                    school three months and at the age of fourteen I went to school seven weeks so
                    that in all I went to school two year unreagularly. In which time I learnt to
                    read and write very imperfectly and I learned arrithmatic imperfectly as far as
                    including the rule of three—fellowship and a small sketch of practic.
                    And as my master was supposed to be a very learned man and as he acknowledged he
                    could teach me no farther I had no doubt but I was prety much of a schoolar. And
                    as there was no one in the neighbourhood that could exceed me I was confirmed in
                    the opinion.
            My father was a poor schoolar though he could read and write imperfectly and
                    being a strong minded man was a man of some information. He had been ingaged in
                    the Revolution war served several year a Malitia soldur was a great Whig. And in
                    the contest about the year 1800 between the Federalists and Republicans my
                    father was a stanch Republican. And  altho
                    he lived in one of those back settlements remote from any town or printing
                    office he contrived to know a good deal about publickal matters and was a great
                    talker on politicks, and was a real patriot and a thorough Democrat. And as
                    might be expected I entered into all his fealings and embibed all his
                    principals.
            About the age of nineteen I got hold of one of the additions 
                        Pike
                    's arrithmatic and perusing of that I soon discovered that
                    I was no Arrithmation and set about geting instruction and as there was a bad
                    chance for an instructor I had to trust to my own industry and I am proud to say
                    that in a few months in which I studied incesantly I acquired a considerable
                    knowledge of Arrithmatic and with the aid of an old Geography I was a tolerable
                    Geographyst but was very destitute of good books except the Bible of which I was
                    very fond and from which I received many good admonitions.
            About the sixteenth year of my age I learned the wheel-right's trade and
                    was tolerable handy with tools but was prinsiply a farmer and in which business
                    I was well acquainted and as there was but a poor chance for a yound man to get
                    a plantation where I was born and raised which was in 
                        Rowan County N Carolina
                     where land was generally poor and sterile and altho my father
                    offered me two hundred acres of land in the woods yet because it was of an
                    indifferent quality I refused to settle it. And about the age of twenty-one
                    years I was in that difficult perplexity of mind common to poor young men of
                    industrious habbits and resolute minds.
            It is at this age that young men stans in need of the most virtuous fortitude.
                    And it is at this age young men is so apt to fall into errors. Some times I had
                    a thought of trying to get a start by a good match in marring—keept a
                    good deal of company but soon found out that the worthy part of young ladys was
                    sought after by so many suiters, all of which was seting up large pretentions
                    that it required a long standing good character—commonly to enable a poor young man to gain the hands of an amiable young
                    lady of good character and fortune. And finally determined not to marry unless I
                    could match myself to some one that when united we would have some prospect of
                    doing well.
            
            For many years there had been a great rage for emigration to the west in the
                    parts where I was raised. and I with the rest was inclined to seek a new
                    country, and at the age of twenty two and a few months an oppertunity offered.
                    Solomon Bowers who had been about eighteen months in the Indiana Teritory on the
                    west side of the falls of 
                        Ohio
                     returned back to Carolina and married my sister Jemima Parr and
                    they determined amediately to go to the Indiana Teritory and I decided to go
                    with them.
            We put our effects into Jacob Copple's wagon who was then about to start
                    to the same settlement on the west of the 
                        Ohio
                    . And we on the 29th day of March 1808 set out from my fathers to
                    the far west. Bowers and my sister was going with a reasonable prospect of being
                    able to settle on some of the choice land then in market, and so it turned out.
            For myself I was going to seek my fortune. I had education for a common school
                    teacher and well understood common labour. We arrived in 
                        Clark county
                    
                    
                        Ia
                    , on the 16th of April 1808 I had seven dollars and a half in my
                    pocket when landed on the West shore of the 
                        Ohio
                     one half of that I gave for corn for my horse. the most of the
                    ballance of my money I gave for a little lot of ground to tend in corn to keep
                    my horse during the comeing winter.
            A few days after my arrival I viseted the land office at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and saw the land a selling, and felt all the bitterness of a poor
                    young man with out money. In a few days after this I set in to work first with
                    Jesse Hindley at the rate of ten dollars per month to procure money to buy me a
                    quarter section of land as this was the smallest quantity that could be bought
                    and I was so fortunate as to make each month supply me with about nine dollars
                    clear untill the eighth of August. I at this time felt my self a good deal
                    worsted by hard work for I was kept at the hardest kind of work. In the 8th of
                    August I commenced school keeping which brought me in about eight dollars per
                    month for three months which ended in November. I then spent a few days in
                    gathering my crop of corn which yielded me sufficient to keep my horse during
                    the winter but my horse was strayed off into the range and was lost and doubtful
                    whether I should ever get him.
            
            It was about this time that Adam Bowers returned from Carolina and brought me
                    fifty dollars that I had coming to me when I left Carilina which together with
                    what I had got sense my arival in the countery amounted to near one hundred,
                    Bowers brought the welcome inteligance that my father had sold his plantation
                    for one thousand dollars. The account I resieved from my father was that he
                    would moov to this country in the fall of 1809 and so far incouraged me that I
                    decided to enter me a quarter section of land which could be done by paying
                    eighty dollars on it and three other like yearly payments.
            There was a quarter section lay joining Solomon Bowers which was concidered a
                    poor bargan. But as it lay where I could board with my sister to advantag and
                    work on my own land where I could not be otherwise imploid to advantage I
                    decided to enter this land. But my horse being strayed into the wilderness I had
                    no horse to ride to the land offic and as I did not know that any other purson
                    wished to purchase the land I obtained leave of Solomon Bowers to ride his
                    fathers horse so far as to the old man Bowers when I hoped to obtain the hire of
                    said horse to ride to the land office. But when I come to the old man Bowers
                    Joseph Bowers finding out that I was going to enter said land he had concluded
                    to enter it. And as they had a rite to prohibit me from riding their horse
                    before I could walk to the land office or get another horse Joseph could get
                    there before me, so I was obliged to give up. This I looked upon as ungenerous,
                    in as much as it had been in his power to have entered the land at any time
                    previous. I then looked out another quarter but was very perticular after I made
                    my selection to let no one know of it lest I should be again desapointed. But as
                    it was thought I had been ungenerously treated I easily obtained the loan of a
                    horse and hurryed to the land office and made a purchase
            I had not arived at home more than an hour before Solomon Bowers arived at home
                    with my horse that had been strayed off. So now I was a free holder my horse was
                    recovered and I was pretty much made up.
            Altho Josep Bowers entered the land he had to do it in his fathers name as it was
                    with the old mans money And  some time after
                    at an election where no person could vote but freeholders I got to vote and Jo.
                    Bowers could not to his no small mortification and my gratification.
            In the spring of 1809 I rented a small farm of John Anderson and made a crop of
                    corn for father against he should arive in the fall. I was very attentive and
                    made a good crop of corn and during the summer I got dissatisfied with my land
                    and sold it for twenty dollars advance. I then set out into the land purchase in
                    search of such a quarter of land as I have never seen.
            I was determined for a good spring with a run from it runing nearly all the way
                    through the land—the best of soil and timber, and lay well. But after
                    fatagueing myself thirty five days in the wilderness I contented myself to
                    purchase the land I now live on. This land I purchased of the U. S. Just eight
                    days before my father arived with his family on this side of the 
                        Ohio
                    . I amediately accompanyed my father out into the wilderness to
                    where I had entered my land and shewed him the land he lived on when he died and
                    to which he mooved to that winter and in a short time all my brothers and
                    sisters settle in the same settlement all of which I aided to make selections of
                    land in the woods in the fall and winter of 1809.
            In the spring of 1810 I began to make an improvement. I had my home at my fathers
                    about a mile and a half from my land and cleaned five acres and put it in
                    corn—built a cabbin and prepared to commence houskeeping.
            Altho I had made overtures to many young ladies previous to this time without
                    coming to an agreement to marry I now become in sound earnest to get me a
                    companion and in the fall of 1810 I paid my first addresses to Nancy the second
                    daughter of Thomas Carr and being in need of a wife was perhaps too solictious.
                    So it was we did not immediately agree that fall and I took a journey to
                    Carolina and stayed six months in which time I collected a considerable sum of
                    money for my father and returned home on the 11th day of June, 1811. After I
                    returned home my father gave me some where about two hundred and twenty five
                    dollars. I was then between 25 and 26 years of age. I had bore my own expences
                         to Carolina and back all to about six
                    dollars by industry while I was gone I earned as much as to be no looser except
                    my time. I worked for some fine close besides my wareing close.
            After I arived home I paid up for my land and then found myself able to aford
                    myself some tolerable neet clothing and other necesaries. And now it was that I
                    found "when a man is able to help himself then he has friend"
                    I had before found out "when a man stands in kneed of friends he may
                    help himself."
            There was nothing remarkable took place out of the common course of things untill
                    the spring and summer of 1812. This summer there was a man lived on my farm by
                    the name of Newton Spence. I lived at my own farm in the day time and worked on
                    my farm and borded with Spence. At night I slept at my fathers. And so it was
                    that I never slept one night at my own house untill after I was married which
                    took place on the 20th of August 1812 to Nancy Cam.
            Chapter 2d
            War had been declared betwen the U. S and Great Britain on the 18th of June
                    previous to my marriage.
            It had been my calculation amediately after my marriage to settle at my home. But on the 3d day of September the
                    Indians made a brake on the fruntiers and at the settlement called the Pigion
                    roost they killed twenty three persons in one afternoon, and the fruntiers every
                    where was in danger, and as the settlement on Blue River
                    was fruntier me and my wife defered mooving to my improvement untill the 18th of
                    Oct, On this day we arived at the farm we lived at untill the day of her death.
                    During the winter of 1812 & 13 we lived at home. But in the spring of
                    1813 the Indians attacked the settlements and I was drafted as a malitia man and
                    went out to guard the fruntiers. my father come and mooved my wife to a fort at
                    his house. At this fort we lived untill in June when my wife menifested so much
                    desire to be at home that with some incouragment on my part we was the first
                    that ventured to leave the fort and four weeks after we left the fort on the
                    10th of July 1813 our first child Malinda was born.
            
            In the winter of this year the county of 
                        Washington
                     was organized out of 
                        Harrison
                     and a part of 
                        Clark
                        I
                     had previously lived in 
                        Clark
                     but was now included in 
                        Washington
                    .
            We then had no townships. The Gov. appointed a competent number of Justices of
                    the peace upon the recomendation of the county court which then consisted of
                    three Judges who resided in the county. And when the county was organized I was
                    appointed one of the Justices of the Peace which was in April 1814. The countery
                    was new and thin settled and but little business to do. I held this office
                    untill the 
                        Spring
                     of 1817 when the state government went into opperation. Samuel
                    Huston was elected a Judge Alex Huston was county commisioner each very
                    influential men in them days and S Milroy was Representative All desirous of
                    keeping me down to make room for their own connection. William Herron belonged
                    to this connection and was a candidate for the office of J. P. against me and
                    was elected and him and James Milroy was first one and then tother held the
                    place untill the spring of 1827. Squre Herron resigned in favor of Samuel M.
                    Huston. It was thought that when that connection turned out together with their
                    influence that they could elect their friend against any man in the Township and
                    some of them had bosted they was omnipotant. Accordingly Sam was a candidate and
                    with out opposition for a long time. I had frequent solicitations to offer and
                    was announced by a company of road workers. I was afraid to offer but at length
                    the requests was so numerous I concented to be run on wednesday evening and the
                    election was on friday and I was elected by a majority of thirteen. The township
                    was generaly together. I held the off. until the year 1830 when my wife Nancy
                    died of which I will say something at page 100
            I held the office till 1832 and when it was about to expire it was thought that
                    no man in the township could beet me. However Isaiah Hornaday took upon him to
                    offer. I knew he could not be elected but I saw he migh inger me against S
                    Huston who I new would offer if he thought there was any prospect. Thos Tadlock
                    then offer and Hornaday then being displeased with me for not giving way to him
                    turned his interest to Tadlock. This inconraged Huston to offer and R.  M'Night (a laim man) offered all
                    these candidates was in my way. On the day of election Huston swaped his vote
                    with Tadlock who was known to be behind. I voted for M'Night and he did
                    not vote at all. Huston got the benefit of his vote and I lost mine. And Huston
                    beet me one vote.
            I was now a widower and of all the times I ever was a candidate I was the most
                    anxious to be elected. This might be easily discovered, and there was persons
                    who ware always writhing under the twinges of envi, who saw an oppertunity of
                    mortifying of me and used their exertions against me and at the same time tried
                    to keep my good will. But they ware some of them ketched. "Envy has no
                    holyday".
            On the last evening of January 1833 I was married to my presant wife Ruth of
                    which I may speak more.
            In the summer of 1833 the offic of Probate Judge become vacant. There is a
                    qualification required for this office before a man can be a candidate. And as
                    there was no Judge near from whom to obtain a cirtificate but Ross and he was
                    known to be very particular, there was no candidates but myself and S. Peck.
                    This was a close election. There was eighty five persons at least in the county
                    that voted that did not vote between us. Out of 153 votes in my own township I
                    got 130 and he beet me in the whole county 160 votes.
            I was greatly peased at this election. I had run against a very worthy man and
                    obtained almost the whole sufferag of my own Township and an honorable poll in
                    the county. And I frequently observed to Pecks friends that "If I had
                    got beeten I was beeten by a man". This with a general good humour give
                    me the good will of most of both our friends. There had been a great mortality
                    Just before the election by the Colara in town and Peck had been useful to the
                    distressed and it was thought at that time by many there was scarce a man in the
                    county that could have beet him.
            In the spring of 1834 the office of Associate Judge become vacant and before I
                    knew of the vacancy I was put in nomination by my friends. I run this year
                    against Dr. Jesse Hill and received every vote given in my own township but two
                    and beet my opponant 346 votes. I was elected to fill the vacancy of Wm. H.
                    Hacket will expire in February 1838.
            
            At the election in August 1837 I was elected associat Judge for seven years. I
                    received 1289 votes, the highes poll of any candidate in the county who had an
                    opponant.
            On the 10th of May 1830 my son Elisha was born. For some time before he was born
                    my wife was in a bad state of helth with a complaint in her breast accompanied
                    with a difficulty of breathing. Hopes was intertained that when the child was
                    born she would get better but it was but a few hours after the child was born
                    until she was discovered to be geting wors and was never in a situation that she
                    could lay down again but was oblged to set up. And notwthstanding she received
                    the medical assistance of two doctors her complaint continued appearantly
                    sometimes better and somes wors until the 5th day of June about ten
                    o'clock at night she expired.
            I had now lost the greatest of all my earthly comforts for so greatly was I
                    attached to my wife that if it had been left to my choice according to my
                    feelings I had rather have seen every relative in the world, my father mother
                    and children all buried in one week than to have lost the partner of my bosom.
                    Nor am I able to discribe the agonies of my mind.
            I was now left with seven children the oldest a daughter near the age of
                    seventeen all the rest ware boys; the younges but four weeks old who had never
                    sucked his mother and whos helpless situation and pitiful condition greatly
                    increased the agonies of my mind which was at a loss what to do or how to
                    provide for the child. My mother undertook to take care of it for a few weeks
                    and in about eight she imployed Tilmon Hartleys wife to suckle the child which I
                    at first reluctantly consented to, but after a few week discovering the child to
                    thrive and do well I agreed with Mrs. Hartly to take care of and suckle the
                    child untill he was of proper age to ween at one dollar per week.
            My oldest and only daughter continued to be my house keeper during my widowerhood
                    and as I after said prooved to be one of the best of daughters of her age and
                    altho I was very unlucky in the loss of my horses while I was a widower yet by
                    great exertion and industry I increased in welth as fast as I had done at any
                    former period of the same length  of time.
                    At the age of seventeen months I got home my baby. This seemed to revive me. It
                    seem to me that I had recovered some thing lost. And here I will take occasion
                    to observe that of all the periods of my life my widowerhood when I look back
                    appears to be the most gloomy and desolate to me tho I am at this time married
                    and happy in the society of an other wife. Of which I will say something
                    hereafter.
            From the time I lost my wife Nancy I knew I could not reasonably think of raising
                    of my family without the assistance of another woman. This created a great trial
                    in my mind I was not well situated as I was and there was a posibility of being
                    worsted. I was very anxious to get home my baby and it was not prudant to do
                    that without the assistance of another wife. I had singled out a woman of about
                    a proper age who had four children two boys and two girls. I had reason to think
                    she would not wish to bring either of the boys with her. So I went one evening
                    to see my baby the night was very dark and I went to where the baby was and
                    stayed till dark and thin started home as I pretended but went to see my choice
                    and passed along unnoticed and arived safely at the door—knocked and
                    was admited when lo and behold there was a quilting at the
                    house and I was there without any arrand and altho I was not afraid of a woman
                    yet under the presant circumstance I was much embarrissed. I took the earliest
                    oppertonity of leaving and as I went home was in great trouble on reflecting
                    that the loss of my wife had brought be to the necessaty of geting another. I
                    went afterwards to see this woman several times and at first thought favourable
                    of her but soon found we should not agree and once comeing home from ther
                    determined never to marry a widow with children which determination I afterwards
                    relinquished. I occasionally conversed with some of the old maids and widows and
                    when I began to think seriously of geting married then trouble would fill my
                    heart and in order to get out of sorrow I would put it off and think some futer
                    day I would be better situated.
            When I was a bachelor I delighted to keep the company of the maids for amusement.
                    But not so now, it did not become my age after my first wife died.
            
            As I felt the necessaty of divine wisdom before I was married I have ever cence
                    felt the obligation I was under to thank that wisdom for directing my choice; for I believe it has been the desire and the business of
                    each one of us to render each other happy and I for my part believe I never
                    injoyed more happiness in the same length of time.
            And here I will take occasion to remark that when a man looses his wife his
                    neighbours will say poor man he has lost his wife; and poor little fellows they
                    have lost their mother and if they have any further care for either it is
                    commonly to get something by their necessaties And I will further remark that
                    when a man get a second wife. Then there will be persons that never had the
                    least real concern for the little motherless babes. Now shews sensably hurt
                    because they are about to come under a stepmother and it frequently happens that
                    there is not wanting persons who will use sayings before children calculated to
                    terrify them on such occasions and use means to set children against the very
                    stepmother they aught to seek the friendship of. But thanks to Him who rules all
                    things acording to the council of his own will in this I have
                    been so blessd that it is the greatest incourgement to sue for new favours.
            ——Chapter——
            In the fall of 1824 The election for a president took place as the time of James
                    Monroe was about to expire. Six or eight month before the election I was quite
                    indifferent. There was four candidates J. Q. Adams Wm. Crafferd H Clay and
                    Andrew Jackson. At first I was rather in favour of 
                        Adams
                     thinking that the only quallifications that Jackson had was a
                    successful warrior. But on geting acquainted with his history I entered the list
                    of his friends with zeal, but at first was not of the opinion that there was a
                    chance for his election. The printer in 
                        Salem
                     was for 
                        Adams
                     and published all he could in his favour I answered a great part of
                    it and become pretty much of a scribler. And as the canvass progressed it was
                    discovered that Jackson would run fore most and that he would get the state of
                    Indiana. Tho there was  some likelihood of a
                    defeat by there being too many candidates for the office of Electors in favor of
                    him. This laid the people under the necessaty of holding a convention to decide
                    who should be electors and when the deligates was chosen for the county of 
                        Washington
                        I
                     was secratury of the meeting & General Samuel Milroy was
                    president—The convention was held and the proper number of electors
                    nominated and at election in Indiana Jackson got the highest vote 
                        Clay
                     next and 
                        Adams
                     next. Jackson got in the U. S. 99 electors 
                        Adams
                     84 and 
                        Crawford
                     next 
                        Clay
                     behind. It was discouvered that if 
                        Clay
                     had been out of the way Jackson would have been elected by the
                    people. 
                        Clay
                     was a representative from 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Legislature of that state instructed their Representatives
                    to vote in Congress for Jackson as 
                        Adams
                     got no vote in the state of by. This instruction 
                        Clay
                     disregarded and as he had been a great advocate for the doctrine of
                    instruction the people almost every where exclaimed against him. 
                        Adams
                     was elected by the house and made 
                        Clay
                     secratary of State. And from this untill the time I am writing the
                    whole countery remained in a foment who should be president. 
                        Adams
                     was put out and Jackson put in who served out his time of 8 years
                    and Martin Van Buren was chosen in his place. During the time of
                    Jackson's administration his friends assumed the character of
                    Demochrats mostly, his enimies asumed many names and at last took upon them the
                    title of Whigs. There was scarcely an act of Jackson that his enimies approved
                    of untill he vitoed the charter of the bank of the U. S. from this forward the
                    contest was between the friends of the U. S. Bank and the opposision of a U. S.
                    Bank. I for one was satisfied that the exertion made against Jackson from the
                    start had been on account of his known hostality to a national bank. During
                    Jacksons last four years the parties shewed themselves affectually to be the
                    Aristocry of Wilth and the Democracy of numbers—in my view it was
                    whether the Bank of the U. S. and the monied power elsewhare should rule the
                    republick or the voice of the people. It was plainly discouverd that the banks
                    and their advocates every whare took side against Van Buron who was pledged to
                    oppose a U. S. Bank. Thus the contest at this  time is whether the government shall collect and disburst the revinu by its
                    own agents in Gold and silver, or through the assistance of a great national
                    Bank. Which in my view is to give the national purs to a few iresponsable
                    bankers to trade upon to the manyfest injury and degredation of the whole
                    people; beside I am thoroughly satisfied the consitution of the U. S. grants no
                    power to congress to charter such a corporation.
            Thus I think I am and always have been a sound republican and my father before
                    me, of the true 
                        Jefferson
                     school oposed to monnopolies except to a very limited extent. It
                    may do to incorporate companies to do a thing that an individual cannot do. And
                    If banks are incorporated and restrcted from issuing small notes they might
                    answer a valueable purpose. But I say they must be prohibited from makeing their
                    notes the currency of the country. It is as easy to perswade the people that
                    small notes will answer as well and better than ponderous silver, that it has
                    been the case and always will be that where they are used as curency they will
                    drive the specia from the land and then the bankers are enabled to fleece the
                    labouring class of people almost at pleasure. But if the banks were restricted
                    from issuing notes of a less denomination than fifty dollars or if it was twenty
                    five dollars then if the banks should stop payment there would be specia enough
                    in the land to answer the purpose of the labouring class of people and
                    speculators would be the greatest sufferer. Again if small notes was wholly
                    prohibited gold would be in circulation. But it is the interest of the banks to
                    prevent the circulation of gold and it is within their power to prevent its
                    circulation by gathering it up and keeping it in the banks.
            Banking is always accompanied with an excess of speculating, and speculating
                    creates no new welth, and of corse the labouring part of the people are fleeced
                    unproceived, and the few is inriched at the expence of the many.
            As I have observed that I was secratary to the first Jackson meeting ever held in 
                        Salem
                    . I will observe also that I was president of the first Van Buren
                    meeting ever held in 
                        Salem
                    .
            
            It was in the summer of 1834 that a excitement was raised to change the form of
                    taxation to that of the ad valorum system, and with that change Gov. Noble
                    recommended the borrowing of a learge sum of money for the purpose of createing
                    a State Bank and amediately on this was recommended the system of internal
                    improvement and at the session of 1836 the system was matured and brought into
                    existance—passed into a law and provision made for borrowing money to
                    commince the work. And the most pompious reprasentations made and sent out among
                    the people of the benifits that would result from the work when compleated. All
                    of which could be done without burthening the people with taxation. The process
                    of borrowing money went on wrappedly and the survaying of roads and canals
                    commenced and continued and some of them surveyed three or four times over at
                    enormous expence to the state. To be an ingeneer at this time was at once to be
                    on the high road to fortun The work was commence all over the state in spots and
                    progressed wraped for a short time but nothing finished and by the fall of 1839
                    the money borrowed was expanded—the whole work stoped in all
                    probility never to begin again.
            All this while we ware under a Whig administration a Whig governor, a Whig Lieu
                    Governor a Whig majority in the Legislature Whig fund commisioners Whig
                    ingeneers in fact almons every officer engaged in the system with rare
                    exceptions ware Whig. Thus the whole scheme commenced and fell in the hands of
                    the Whigs leaving the state in debt to the amount of about ten millions of
                    dollars.
            The spell was with drawn—The charm was broke and the eyes of the
                    people opened and the guilty was plainly to be seen. But many fortunes were
                    made. It would be useless to try to enumerate the devices now made use of to
                    make it appear that the system was a Whig and Democrat System But it was too
                    obvious to be concealed. Tho the Whigs saw that if they did not beguile the
                    people some way their fall was to hand.
            From the firs mention of the system of borrowing money upon the credit of the
                    state for the purpose Banking or internal improvement I used all the influnce I
                    was master of  to prevent it. And I have
                    made these remark for to shew the ruinous effect of a state or individual
                    borrowing. But particularly a state to borrow money for any proposd object
                    whatever in time of peace is to involve the whole or almost the whole in a kind
                    of snatch game to see who shall get the most of the money borrowed. It is seldom
                    recollected that the money has to be made up by heavy taxes which should always
                    be avoided. It matters not what the cause may be that creates high taxes the
                    more tax to be gather the more expence to gather it and the people is opressd.
            Any person acquainted with histery of the Constitution U. S. know that it met
                    with great opposition on account of its appearing to create too splendid a
                    government. Even Patrick Henry opposed it with all his abilities as not being
                    simple enough or in other words not Democratic enough as likely to destroy the
                    liberies of the people by granting too much power to congress. And as was fore
                    seen congress would be likely to take or try to take powers not granted and as
                    has been seen ever since the adoption of the constitution congress has been
                    continually over steping their bounds and perticularly in money matter, and
                    taxations. There always has been and always will be an aristocrascy in the land
                    disguiseing themselves with various pretentons and under various names but
                    always striving to assume for the government powers not granted. No man that was
                    in the convention that framed the constitution of Indiana intended to give the
                    power to the legislature to borrow ten milion of dollars to squander on a
                    visionary object. Neither did the framers of the constitution of the U. S. grant
                    power to congress to incorperate a banking company altho the aristocrasy has
                    pretended to desern the power and shew it to the people by first shewing the necessaty and then the advantage and then
                    pretending to act for the common welfare But it is the few,
                    and them the aristocrasy that is advantagd in the end.
            In years to come if these memoirs should fall into the hands of my children which
                    I wish them to do or any one else it will be easyly preceived that I am a
                    democrat which I am proud to say has been about forty years. Ever sense the
                    canvass previous to Jeffersons first election a canvass in which  my father took a warm part and I then imbibed all
                    the feelings of my father and am still and ever expect to be an advocate for a
                    democratic government—The simplear the government the better for the
                    mass of the people. let every one get his living by honest industry and do as he
                    would be done by and subject to the constitutional powers that be
            October the 2d 1844 Chapter 3d
            When I began this history I did not date the time and so have wrote as I had
                    leasure which has been several years I shall now practise giving dates as I
                    write as some of the circumstancs transpire
            October the 3d 1844
            We are now in a great political strife between the Democrats and Whigs. It would
                    be hardly necesary to say democracy teaches no exclusive priviledg no exclusive
                    legislative privilidges for Shavers and Stock jobers to Shave and fleece the
                    poor labouring man and get rich without labour for we know that who ever lives
                    with out labor or gets rich with out labor some body must labour for him and
                    this is not equal rights and equal priviledgs.
            I have viewed the contest at this time and for a long time between the parties a
                    contest whither we shall have a republic with out a national bank or a national
                    bank without a republic Whither we shall have a terriff or tax only sufficient
                    for the use of carrying on the government or whither the terriff or tax shall be
                    so laid as to enable those that are protected by the duty to make the people
                    generally pay the protected a learge sum over the value of manufacturing.
            The true Democrats at this time is for the government to afford equal protection
                    to all and as a duty is or must be laid for revenue, a small discriminating duty
                    will be as much protection as aught to be laid. Not a prohibitary duty bicause
                    no revenue can be obtained from a prohibitary duty and that enables the
                    manufacturer to sit the price of the thing manufactured at his own price and so
                    distroy commerce. It is the voice of all history and experience that trade has
                    been most prosperous where it has been most free. Whin repressed by  restriction we have seen it avoid the most fertile
                    and best situated countries and flee to some barron cost that bosted not of
                    custom houses and prohibition.
            An eloquent writer has said "It was free trade that reared the city of
                    Tyre upon a miserable Ilet that raised the glories of Palmera in the midst of a
                    sandy desart; that built the marble pallices and churches of Venice upon shores
                    which scarcely raised above the surfice of the Adriatic that fixed wealth and
                    letters upon the frowning rock of Amalfi and that so overflowed the marshes of
                    Holland with riches and inhabitants that the latter built their fine cities upon
                    piles and encroached the domain of the ocean".
            In the presant canvass for president James K. Polk is candidate for president on
                    the part of the democrats and as his character is unassailable as a man the
                    Whigs have attacked his grand father and have assurted that his grand father
                    Ezekel Polk of 
                        North Carolina
                    
                    
                        Mocklinburgh county
                     was a tory of the revolution war and some has went so far as to say
                    Gov Polks grandfather was hanged for a tory and as I desire all my sons to so
                    conduct themselves as to be unassailable in point of character I have thought it
                    advisable to here to insert my own fathers decleration as made in open court
                    some ten or twelve years ago when applying for a pention which was supported by
                    testimony to the satisfaction of the court then in session.
            At the time the above was written the authers sons was all alive 
                        STATE
                            OF INDIANA WASHINGTON COUNTY
                  
                        
                     
                                Washington
                             circuit court
                        September term 1832
                        On this 26th day of September 1832 personally appeared in open court
                            before the Judges of said court now sitting Arthur Parr a resident of
                            the said county of 
                                Washington
                             and state aforesaid 74 years old who being duely sworn
                            according to law doth on his oath make the following declaration in
                            order to obtain the benefit of the act of congress passed June the 7th
                            1832.
                        According to my best information I was born on the 5th day of July 1758
                            in that part of the state of 
                                North Carolina
                             that was then or shortly afterwards Guilford county where I
                            continued until I was some where about ten or twelve years old when I
                            went with my mother and step father (my own father being dead) into the
                            state of 
                                South Carolina
                            
                             I continued until the first day of
                            march 1776 then in the district of 
                                Fairfield
                                I
                             was drafted and entered the servise of the revolution war
                            under Captain Thomas Woodard in a single company and marched to 
                                Charlestown
                             where I was Stationed as a guard under different higher
                            officers until after the battle of Sullivants island commanded by Col.
                            Moultree which I was in full view of but not imediately ingaged. I then
                            entered the service as a volunteer and was ordered out, against the
                            Cherocee indians under Captain Joseph Handcock under Col. Beard who was
                            under Gen. Williamson and marched into the indian country was in one
                            small battle with the indians whom we beat and after which we cut down
                            their corn and distroyed it. I was then continued on the indian
                            fronteers until march 1777 when we were discharged at 
                                Lindleys
                             or Elosons fort not recollected which. In the spring of
                            1777 I entered the service a vollenteer under cap Joseph Kirkland under
                            Maj Goodwin under Col John Winn under Gen. Williamson and went into 
                                Florida
                             in the campaign commonly called the Augustian campaign.
                            When we returned I was continued in the service variously stationed on
                            the Savanah our headquarters being at 
                                Purisburgh
                             until in the fall or early in the winter of 1778 I went to
                            Charlstown a vollinteer and continued there and in the visinity untill
                            the fall of the year we went again to Purisburgh where we ware
                            discharged. in the 
                                Spring
                             of 1779 I entered the servise a vollenteer under Cap Joseph
                            Kirkland and was im-ployed under Gen Huger in destroying the road from
                            savanah to 
                                Charlestown
                            . In June we was under Gen. Lincoln near the mouth of Stone
                            creek and was in the battle commonly called the stone battle between 
                                Charlestown
                             and Savannah. I then entered the horse service under a
                            captain who was a forener whos name I have forgot under General the
                            count 
                                Pulaski
                             and in that situation I was in the Siege of Savannah. Early
                            in the year of 1780 I went a vollenteer to 
                                Charlestown
                             under Cap Joseph Kirkland who was there made Collonel and
                            Benjamin May was made Captain and I continued there untill a few days
                            before 
                                Charlestown
                             was invested by the British. I was then sent under Col
                            Kirkland to Oringburgh and there continued until shortly after 
                                Charlestown
                             was taken we also surrendered under Col Kirkland by
                            capitulation and paroled. After we was paroled the British ag-gresion
                            and violation of the capitulation caused many of us to take up arms and
                            I was obliged to flee to 
                                North Carolina
                            . And when Gen Gateses army passed through that state I
                            followed after and joined the army the day before the memorable Gateses
                            defeat under 
                                Col Porter
                            -field who was killed in the battle which was my last assay
                            in arms.
                        The above is some of the particulars of my service in the revolution war
                            as near as my recollection serves me at this time. It is likely I may be
                            mistaken in some things particular the dates but one thing I am very
                            sure of that is I was in all upwards of three years imployed in the
                            service of the 
                                United States
                             perticularly the state of 
                                South Carolina
                             in their struggle for independence a great part of which
                            time I was a sergeant.
                        ARTHUR PARR.
                    
                
            
            It may be discovered that most of the service rendered by my father was before
                    that part of the revolution war set forth in Lees southeran wars.
            There is a passage mentioned in the life of Marian by Harry conserning Sarjant
                    Jasper and Sarjant Newtons Rescuring sertain Amarican prisoners among which was
                    a Mrs Jones and conducting the British prisonors to purisburg. My father states
                    that he was at 
                        Plurisburgh
                     when 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton come in with the prisionors.
            He also states that after the surrender of 
                        Charlestown
                     and Oringeburgh the regiment in which he was in under Col Kirkland
                    surrendered by capitulation and was to be paroled but in sted of being paroled
                    they were marched to camdon and kept in close confinement some times in the
                    Jail. this cruelty was considered a sufficient excuce to autherize them in turn
                    when they did get clear to use the first oppertunity to retaliate for their
                    extra sufferings which is always severe enough in war for prisoners at best with
                    out regor. In prosess of time they ware paroled and got home and there was a Col
                    John Winn and about forty men near that still continued in arms tho the most of
                    the liberty party considered themselves conquered while the tories willing to
                    show their fadility to the kings cause was emboding. And a party of about three
                    hundred collected at a meeting house in the vicinity near where these
                    exasperated liberty men was under paral.
            Col Winn appeared in their tory camp and agreed to join them on a certain evening
                    with sixty men. Winn then went among those paroled prisoners and engaged some
                    twenty of them to join him and his forty which made something about the sixty
                    agreed upon.
            Their rallying place was near a little river near the tory camp at the meeting
                    house. At the appointed evening Col Winn and this mixed banditte of rebels and
                    prisoners half armed sallied out under the pretence of friends to join the kings
                    loyal subjects who was peraded carelessly to receive the supposed friends and
                    suffered them on horses to streach along the whole length of their line the
                    forty being armed with swords and the twenty paroled prisoners with such  weapons as they could obtain come thus
                    within a few rods of each other and at a signal rushed upon the poor thoughtless
                    toryes and in a few minutes dispersed them with loss with out any loss on the
                    part of the assailants who soon consumed every thing that fire would burn
                    besides what Winn and his forty could retreat with. The paroled men not thinking
                    it prudant to take any plunder lest it might lead to a discovery.
            It so happened that one young man of the party paroled was caut by the British or
                    tories who extorted a confesion and a discovery of all the party conserned and
                    then hung him This being known to the paroled men they had to leave the country
                    and my father fled to 
                        North Carolina
                     who on the way fell in with a part of Gen Retherfords army of light
                    horses and remained with them for a time and while he remained the light-horse
                    of Retherfords army a strong party of tories was broken up at Ramsowers Mill
                    mentioned in Lees southern wars. After this Father proceeded on to 
                        North Carolina
                     and there continued untill Gateses army passed through that state
                    when he followed on after the army and over took it the day before the battle
                    and joined the army and was attached to Col Porterfields light-horse and was in
                    that part of the van that proceeded to log town where a scrimage took place in
                    which Col Porterfield was mortally wounded. The next morning Porterfields comand
                    not being imediatly engaged had an opertunity to escap and father returned to 
                        North Carolina
                     with the musket he had received when he joined the army. And being
                    discuraged as to the success of the cause of liberty. And not being willing to
                    be seen carrying a liberty musket which would have soon fell in to the hands of
                    the torys he thew it with the other acutri-ments into deep River. And proceeded
                    on with a heavy heart under the perswasion that all was lost and that he could
                    not ever be in safty in 
                        South Carolina
                    . And so takeing up his residence in the neighbourhood of old James
                    Morgan a stanch liberty man who had a daughter named Polly they become
                    acquainted and finally got married.
            As this old James Morgan was a firm liberty man and lived in a settlement mostly
                    of tories he was often exposed  to perl and
                    to loss of property and oftener to insult so much so that when the desasterous
                    defeat of Gates was made properly known the old gentleman could but seldon or
                    never go into company with out being hissed and pointed at. And once (perhaps
                    often) condolling himself with this cosola-tion. "Rejoice not mine
                    enemy although I fall yet shall I rise". And after the Guilford battle
                    when the British army under Cornwallis marched down through the countery to
                    wards Wilmington they passed near about the first of April 1781 striped him of
                    every thing that would suit to feed Soldiers or forage horses. At the time the
                    British passed down through the contry the poor dismayed liberty men had to keep
                    concealed or lay out as it was called commonly as near home as
                    was convenient and the old man Morgan was laying out on the day the British army
                    plundered his property and being very solicitious to see what damage was done he
                    come home early on the morning after the british left and approached near his
                    own house. And in that situation was discovered by a party of the American horse
                    a part of Gen Greens army who was hanging on the rear of the British which the
                    old man mistook for the British and as consealment was not practable in the
                    situation he was in he walked forward with his hat under his arm and requested
                    to surrender a prisionor of war. Upon that the officer asked "who he
                    was for" to which chalange he replied. "I do not want to die
                    with a lie in my mouth I am what they call a liberty man" the officer
                    then replyed. If you are a liberty man you have nothing to fear from me. Tho it
                    was some time before the old man could be convinced that he was in company of a
                    part of Greens army which was really the fact and who requested him to pilot
                    them directly through the country to head quarters which the old man imediately
                    undertook and on the way they passed by the ground whereon the British encampt
                    the night before and finding several young men on the camp ground who really was
                    the sons of tories the officer put questions to them and they not doubting but
                    that they ware interogated by a British officer was a bout answaring favourable
                    which the old man Morgan discovered shook his head at the young men and took
                    upon him to answer for them.  And being
                    known to them to be a liberty man they discovered their mistake and changed
                    their tone. And afterwards acknowledge the obligation they ware under to the old
                    man who perhaps saved them from imediate distruction. They then put off on the
                    same day as the old man piloted them through the country. the liberty officer
                    fell in with a man who no doubt mistook the offiser for a British officer
                    frankly acknowledged that he was a soldier in a regiment Raised by Col Forgason
                    and that he fought with Forgason at Kings Mountain and that as soon as he could
                    work for some clothing he would return to his duty in the kings service. Upon
                    this the captain informed him that he migh be busy with his maker for he had not
                    more than thirty minutes to live. And so conducted him a little out of sight of
                    some ladies and directed him to be shot which was imediately done. The old man
                    Morgan when recuring to the seens of the war would often relate this pasage and
                    tell how it shocked him sepicial-ly when he reflected upon how he had escaped in
                    the morning. The man killed was of the name of Frederic Hiser and he had a
                    brother who hearing that Morgan was along when his brother was killed saught to
                    kill the old man and once come to his house for the purpose when the old man was
                    from home. In this way individuals often suffered for the conduct of their
                    party.
            These are some of the insidents related by my parents and grand father which
                    striped my grand father and my father and mother of almost every thing but stout
                    hearts full of love and resolution sufficient on the 22d of February 1782 to get
                    married and in that happe state continued husband and wife for over fifty year
                    who after mooving to the Indiana teritory saw it become a state and acquired a
                    reasonable compatency and after raising nine children ended their lives in the
                    state of Indiana the old man Arthur Parr in 
                        Washington County
                     March the 21–1833—on the place where he first
                    sittled and his wife some few years after in 
                        Clark county
                     at her youngest sons Morgan Parr at whos request the following is
                    insurted.
            Sometime in the early part of the war some tories or loyalists embodied and went
                    to join the British. But ware  met by a pary
                    of liberty men defeated and dispearsed and was returning home very molencolly
                    dispirited and discurged.
            This being knon to the liberty men of their own district or neighbourhood was
                    considered fine sport, for so long as they continued in arms and embodied they
                    ware considered good prise. Themselves would answer to exchange for liberty
                    prsoners, and their horses and guns free and lawful plunder aecordind to the
                    usageses of the war. And so a leading man of the liberty party collected a few
                    young men among which was my father and making six in all. And so sitting out in
                    the evening in order to waylay the home Retreating torys and taking a path that
                    crossed broad river at a ford but seldom used and very difficult to ford to any
                    but those acquainted as it was and after crosing continued in a very narrow
                    bottom between the clift and the water untill quite dark when they heard a
                    company of the disheartened torys corning down a very narrow path that sloaped
                    into the bottom a distance below the ford. The six liberty men then divided and
                    three run down blow where the path the torys ware de-cending entered the bottom.
                    And three remained up near the ford. So soon as the torys had turned up the
                    river along between the clift and the water the three below the enterance of the
                    path into the bottom then run up above the place where the path which sloped
                    down the clift enterd the bottom and inclosed the torys between the clift the
                    water and the three up at the ford. And the vally being very dark the torys
                    could not discover the numbers before them nor behind them. And as each three
                    made a nois resembling a host in number and the torys finding thimselves pened
                    serrendered at once by cappitulation. It was then agreed that three from below
                    and three from above should come forward and take possesion of the prisionors
                    horses and guns which turned out to be twinty four torys horses and guns. This
                    being done the torys ware ordered to return up the hill to the house of a friend
                    where they ware secured and they to their mortification found out that the whole
                    twenty four of the kings loyal subjects had been captured by six rebels.
            
            Chapter fourth
            I was sent to school very young to a neighbouring preacher who used at times to
                    excit us on the subject of religion. At these lectures I was informed of the
                    happiness that was in store for those that loved and served God. And the awful
                    torment that awaited the wcked and disobediant. The torment of the wicked was
                    represented as a person cast into a place burning with fire and brimstone This
                    punishment I felt more anxious to escape than to obtain the pleasure promised
                    and being attached to many pleasures pointed out as wicked I was very hard put
                    to it to give them over and finally come to the resolution or reather
                    concludsion that I could not refrain from my wicked practices and that a
                    punishment of fire and brimstone could not endure many minutes. And the worst
                    could but come.
            At another lectur I was informed that the wicked would be cast into hell A place
                    burning with fire and brimstone where they would remain forever without dying or
                    the fire being quinched. This I looked upon to be a punishment too sivere in
                    duration and misery to endure for a few years of sensual pleasure And altho I
                    considered the punishment un-proportioned to the offenc concluded I had better
                    try and avoid it by refraining from what I understood to be wrong and doing what
                    was well pleasing in the sight of God.
            This resolution I entered into at about the age of seven years and adhered
                    strictly to it for a time persuing the best light before me. But often failing
                    of coming up to what I cosidered to be my duty and fearing after my best
                    performance I was very likely to fall short, at last I give out or fainted and
                    done as many does put it off until I should become a man and get married and
                    then I should be in a better situation to perform what the Lord required of me.
            Sometime between the age of sixteen and seventeen there was a great revival among
                    all the religious parties and I frequantly went to meeting and hard many relate
                    the dealings of the Lord with their souls and how he had pardoned their sins and
                    spoke peace to their souls I become enamored with religion and again sit out to
                    seek my souls salvation.  And I lived the
                    strictest moral life for something like nine months. Was frequantly in prayer.
                    At length disparing give out without making any promises at the age of about 17
            Thus from the age of seventeen I continued in the common persuits of young men
                    tho I was a great reader of the scriptures but it was prinsapally to try to
                    discover a plan of salvation upon universal prinsapls and was a great supporter
                    of the doctrin of Universal restoration and the Universal restoration of all
                    fallen enteligence, and if the doctrine could have been confirmed by votes I
                    should have lexenaired hard to carry the election. So I strove hard to confirm
                    my favo-right prinsaples untill I discouvered that my desires to confirm this
                    doctrine would not make it so or not so tho I has as many persons do searched
                    the scriptures to find pasages to support my universal restoration prinsples.
            And thus I continued in the common course persued by most my moral young men such
                    as dansing and Song singing tho I objected to singing speritual songs on the
                    grounds of my unworthiness not refraining from cursing and swareing frequaintly
                    untill sometime after I was married After I was married I began to refect upon
                    my promises in early life to reform when I got married. But it was Indian times
                    and I had to be imployed in the defence of the fronteers and it appeared to be a
                    bad opertunity for refirmation until my first child was born. Something about
                    six weeks after my first child was born I went to the association at Silvercreek
                    in the neighbourhood of my father-in-laws (the first that I had ever been at) I
                    was as unconserned as usual, on saterday untill evenind when old Jess Vauter
                    stood up in the stand to close the service of the day and spoke from these words
                    of the saviour to the man possesed of the legion of devile "go home and
                    tell what great things the Lord has done for you and how he has had compassion
                    on you." These words and the accomppinying remarks sunk deep in to my
                    mind. I saw that I had nothing great to tell nor did I think I was entitled to
                    his compassion for I knew that I had been long a transgressor and that against
                    light and knowlage and against my own views of right and rong but for some years
                    before I was married I had refrained from some offences that I viewed the  most odious. Amond which was the practice
                    of interfering between parties a courting or holding out falts hopes to young
                    women that I would marry them. Tho I had amused myself in time past in
                    interposing between a young man and his girl for the purpose of vexing him
                    without considering the distress it might bring upon the young lady. I saw this
                    kind of interferance is the cause of injury to young people through life
                    perticylarly young women. For it may happen that the lady may be pleased with
                    her suiter but almost every person is willing to give up a tollerable good for a
                    better. And thus it may happen that a couple of young people may be happy in
                    each others company and calculated to render each other happy through life. But
                    by a more promiseing offer interfering much mischief may be done for the mear
                    fon of doing mischief. In this way wounds and hard thought may be created
                    between couples that may afterwards git married but be injurious through life.
                    And as I had been a universalist the last years of my single life and a great
                    believer in Jesus Christ and that God did take cognizance of the conduct of his
                    creatures and would punish the offendor in this wourld or in the world to come.
                    And as I believed that God had a care and love over all his creatures. I
                    believed that the greatest offenc that I could commit against God was to inger
                    one of his creatures or cause pain and grief to one of my fellow beings.
            This oppinion was founded upon that scripture in the 25th of Matthew that says
                    "In as much as ye done it unto one of the least of these my brethren ye
                    have done it unto me". And believing that we was all Christ brethren
                    every injury done to a fellow being was done to Christ and was shure to receive
                    its reward either in this world or in the world to come. And as I had seen a
                    good deal of sorrow and trouble that I thought had been brought up on me by my
                    own bad conduct or the visitations of devine vengens and that I aught to excep
                    as his love for my recovery. I had been (as I say) very careful to do no act
                    perticularly among young ladys that might in any way cause trouble or grief.
                    These words as I said "go home and tell what great things the Lord has
                    done for you and has had compassion on you" sunk deep into my  mind. I was now married and had one child a
                    daughter but had done little or nothing towards reforming according a promise
                    made when young that when I got married I would reform and searve the Lord.
            This lecture of old Jesse sunk deep into my mind tho I said nothing to any body
                    about it. The next day on sunday there was very affecting preaching that seemed
                    to call on sinners to repent and reform. And as I understood the doctrine of
                    free provision was only preached. After this meeting for some weeks I had a
                    strong inclination to reform or try to reform. But as I had made several
                    beginings and had fainted I had no confidenc in my self that if I should
                    determine ernestly to reform and follow strictly what I viewed a Christian walk
                    I should soon give over and faint again and so injure the cause and fall under
                    the character of him that began to build and was not able to finish. And with
                    all perhaps never attain to the happiness sought for, or the hope of pardon in
                    this life.
            I was willing to have made an open profesion of religion. But my fears was that I
                    should as I had done before faint and fall back into my former errors and so be
                    a reproach to myself and the caus.
            In this situation of mind I come to the resolution to make no open profesion but
                    trust to the Lord alone for life and do all the good I could and if I could do
                    no good do as little harm as posable or in other words to persue the best light
                    I could obtain as nearly as I could and say but little to any body on the
                    subject of religion and if I failed to perform wahat I thought was my duty to be
                    my own admonisher and test my conduct by the book of God. This
                    resolution soon brought me to the law.
            Sometime after my resolve to try to reform I was meditating on my situation and
                    the inability and the uncertainty of my holding out. These words come very
                    forsably into my mind. "Man should always pray and not faint."
                    These words had a very favourable affect on my mind it led me to conclud that I
                    was probably within the bounds of Gods mercy and that he cared for me. The
                    presept appeared to be a good one come from where it would and well worthy of
                    following  and I determined to do it let the
                    consequinc be what it might without fainting if I could. But as I have hinted
                    the law had become very much my rule of life and when I talked on religion I
                    pled very strong for it.
            For a year or so I went to meeting considerably among the methodist and heard
                    them preach. And the methodist and the baptist preachers did teach that before a
                    sinner could feal an assureance of an exceptance in the sight of God and
                    experience his pardoning love, he must seek the Lord fer-vantly and sinserely
                    and finally give out all hope and when all hope was gone then faith faith would
                    brake into the soul and enable it to lay hold of the promise of pardon.
            Both the methodis and the baptist preachers taught that there must be also a work
                    of the spirit wrought upon the heart or it was not the work of God and if it was
                    not the work of God it would be of no avail the sinner was yet in his sins And
                    between them or reather from them but little instruction could be obtained
                    serviceable to an inquireing mind by their contridictions. Yet both held out
                    that to get religion you must become, a doubter before you could be a believer.
                    And for myself I did not agree with either exactly but took the law strictly for
                    my guide until I was much taken with it. In fact I made it prety much my saviour
                    with the help of Christ untill once reading in the 4th chapter of Galations 21
                    verse these words "Tell me ye that desire to be under the law, do ye
                    not hear the law" and the chapter to the end. I was convinced that I
                    had got a wrong view of the law and my plan of salvation broken up But what must
                    I do. I read on to the 14th verse of the fifth chapter where it says
                    "For all the law is fulfiled in one word even in this. Thou shalt love
                    thy neighbour as thy self". And now I was worse pussled than ever for
                    to love my neighber as myself appeared more out of law. This induced me to read
                    the whole book of Galations. But in trying to love my neighbour as miself I soon
                    began to examine. "Who is my neighber." This led me to the
                    pasage where the saviour discribed the man that went from Jerusalem down to
                    Jerico and fell among thieves &c.
            About this time the doctrine taught by a set of profesors calle the marcialites
                    or chrstian body was agitated that Christ 
                    could not be as old as God because the son could not be as old as his father.
                    And when reflecting upon this dosctrine it caused me to take great views upon
                    the nature of Christ and the power of his reserection and come to some clear
                    views on the subject as I think. He was the way and He was the
                        truth and the life and either was as old
                    as God. He was the Lord our Rightiousness and Righteousness was as old as God
                    and was farther warranted in my belief from the 8th chap of Prov and set fourth
                    by Dr Watts thus "ear sin was born or 
                        Adams
                     dust was fasioned to a man". So I had found a saviour as
                    eternal as God. But to me what good was it I desired an application evidently to
                    my soul or to my condition as frequantly related by profesions or religion. Such
                    as "thy sins be forgiven thee and many others such as "He is
                    able he is willing. &c.
            Thus I was a believer in dispare because I had not had some extraordinary
                    menifestation comeing from the saviog I viewed him as eternal. In him there was
                    life. He could reserect. He was the reserection. But I desired something of the
                    fasionable or common related way of geting religion as set forth in the
                    experiences of profesors.
            In August 1810 I went to the Baptist association at the Sharon meeting house and
                    as the members and mesengers ware assembling I saw a great body in a church and
                    would have been glad to have been a member. I viewed the members as the people
                    of God but felt dispare because I did not believe that I was fit to be a member.
                    Tho I felt that I loved them and that becaus I believed them to be the children
                    of God and was in hopes of hearing something at the meeting that would be
                    benifisial to me. The meeting progressed and ended with out my receiving the
                    instruction desired. All was over and I not Saved nor no additional information
                    obtained as to the way or plan of salvation all the preaching seemed to border
                    upon Calvinism and that taught me nothing.
            I had for sometime promised that if ever any chearing words or promiseing
                    scriptures come to or on my mind to try and lay hold of it as I had no just
                    cause to believe that my case was worse at worse than others. So the night after
                         this meeting I was very unhappy when
                    these words come to me "If the son shall make you free ye shall be free
                    indeed" I imediately said that those words had been long formiliar with
                    me but in answer—did you not promise to lay hold of the next words
                    that come to you—I assent, and tryed to be incouraged. Some time
                    after these words come to me. Who so findeth me findeth life it would seem if
                    the ballance of the sentance had come I aught to have been
                    satisfied—and shall obtain favor of the Lord" but there was
                    only so much I gained strength. And some time after these words come very
                    forceably to me "Because I live ye shall live also" I knew the
                    words ware the words of the Saviour and they appeared addressed to me I received
                    them as such with great joy and was very happy in the hope they created in
                    me—I praised God The promises in the scripture appeared to be all in
                    my favour and was frequantly coming into my mind with great pleasure and
                    satisfaction my confidence increased. And I was free and willing to relate to my
                    friends what I thought the Lord had done for my soul. And on the first satterday
                    in October 1816 I related my hopes to the church of Sharon—was
                    received into fellowship and on the next day being Lords day I was baptised and
                    remained in fellowship in that church untill after my firs wife died who also
                    was a member in full fellowship with me. The church then desolved and I mooved
                    my membership to Hebron church about four mile south of where I now live October
                    1880.
            I should have stated that when I thought I had come to some correct views of the
                    saviour I heard a baptist preach who repeated one of Jobs observations which
                    reads thus. "I? have hard of thee by the hearing of the ear but now
                    mine eyes see thee therefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and
                    ashes". This passage and my own knowlage of my own situation at the
                    time and often sinse affected me
            
                    I leave you hear a little book That you may look upon That you may see your
                        fathers face When he is dead and gone.
                
            
            CHAPTER FIFTH
            
            I continued in the church untill about the year 1825 or six. The time that a
                    portion of the Baptist sepperated and a part went away and left the main or old
                    body and has sins been called Campbellites. About the time of the sepperation
                    and a short time before a part of our church was very tenatious to be called
                    Regular Baptist and this was held out as one reason why the disenting party was
                    inclined to lave.
            I tryed hard to prevent the use of this distinguishing appilation because some of
                    the church disliked it and insisted that it of itself could mean nothing. But
                    some insisted the name Regular was a test of what order of baptists we belonged
                    to. And so insisted that our letters of dismision and letters to the association
                    should discribe us as the regular baptist church of Jesus Christ and some of
                    those that was zelous for the name Regular held doctrine very different from
                    others equally zealos for Regular yet they was willing to continue in fellowship
                    because they ware regular baptist and appeared oppose to any reform or
                    improvement that had not been customary in the churches for many years past.
                    This to them appeared to be Regular. And that was enough for the present
                    purpose.
            About this time 1830 the Bible sosiety Sunday school union and some other
                    societys was in use and a Society called the forenmision society used for the
                    purpose of raising funds to school the Indians and fit out men to preach to the
                    hethan. Against all these societys the association in their 16th item protested.
                    this caused an other divison. So now we ware in three parties. The Regulars. The
                    Misionarys and the Campbellites. The regulars oppose the raising money for any
                    purpose but the most necessary. The misionarys ware for raising money for
                    spreading the gospel. The Reform baptist or Campbellites objected to any article
                    of faith—took the scripture for their creed.
            Also about this time Daniel Parker a popular preacher among the Regular baptist
                    supporting and containing the doctrine called the "Two seed"
                    doctrine and as many of the regular imbraced the doctrine set forth by Parker
                    which  might I think be called a species of
                    Calvinism. The Misionaries called the Regulars parkerites and as Regulars was
                    made to mean almost any thing the regulars they divided into many parts all
                    claiming to be the regulars without much re-guard to their articles of faith.
            And as the regulars objected to almost any teaching but that of the Holy Ghost to
                    quallfy a man to be a preacher. Some of the ignorent uninformed men profesed to
                    be taught or qualified by the Holy Ghost to preach and some preached one thing
                    and some another all profesing to have been taught by the Spirit. But the
                    general doctrine was something like this. That Christ come into world to save
                    the church. That the church stood full in Adam. That all adams posterity would
                    be saved by relationship with Christ and was the elect. That if any was lost for
                    whom Christ died then so much of the blood of Christ would be shed in vain. And
                    as all agreed that there would be many lost some held there was two seed and
                    some held two fold and some the elect and non-elect and as all
                    profesed to be taught by the Spirit the scripture was not much used to support
                    the varius notions of the saved and lost But according to my view such praching
                    was better calculated to scatter the flock than to gather. But the common saying
                    was that Gods people was Gods people wheather many or few let them go. And these
                    reflections has indused me to explain some of my own views in the following
            The opinion that two orders of people exists among mankind is a heathen opinion
                    (as I will hereafter try to show) and has been sanctioned as far back as we have
                    any account. And that it is some way necessary that they should exist in
                    or'der to carry out Gods purpose. And one of this two orders of people
                    (or mankind) vessels of rath fitted for distruction. And it is believed that
                    these two orders of being exist by the grace of God. For those that think and
                    have heretofore held or thought that they themsilves ware of the favoured order
                    impute it to the grace of God. Thus by the grace of God these two (so widely)
                    different orders of men or beings have their existance. The one order, the
                    vessels of the most gracious mercy and eternal love. And the other order the
                    objects  of the most dredful eternal and
                    awful misery and that too by the grace of God.
            And it has been undertaken by this generation to shew how these two orders exist
                    or how they come in to existance. Daniel Parker in a pamphlet has tryed to shew
                    that one of these two orders of beings was brought forth by the instrumentality
                    of satan some way through the woman. This opinion being so rediculously obsurd
                    that it was generally objected to—
            Nickolas Smith and many others hold that the church stood in adam and fell in
                    adam and is the objects of Gods eternal love and being lost in Adam Christ come
                    to seek and save them. And then to avoid universalism hold also that God
                    multiplied the sorrows and the conception of the woman and so by the grace of
                    God the two orders exist and is the elect and the none elect or saint and sinner
                    and this doctrine I think may Justly be called the two breed doctrine as both
                    orders of persons sprung from the same mother. It is also held that Cain was of
                    the bad breed because John speaks of his being of that wicked one. Tho Eve said
                    when she bore him that she had gotten a man from the Lord.
            There are many different races and coulers of men. And men of different tallant
                    in the world or that inhabit the globe and that by the grace of God. For it is
                    of the Grace of God that any of us are hear, great or small, noble or ignoble.
                    They are all here of Gods own purpose and Grace. And there is none here of Gods
                    hatred rath or mallice. For God is love.
            But that there is two orders of men made by the same or brough forth by the same
                    creater. The one order the Special care and protection of God and the other
                    order the vessels of his rath fited or intended for distruction. I deny. It is
                    contrary to the declaration of Independence. And contrary to all our republican
                    institutions and those intrument or institutions ware fraimed upon the refrmed
                    principles of the gospel which abound in declearations of eaquality among men.
                    The whole tiner of the new testament writings show equality among men so far as
                    the divine superindendance or care is concerned.
            
            The declaration of independance was proclaimed by enlighten, gospel-taught
                    God-fearind men. That instrument has been sanctioned by all men aproving of of
                    republican principles and dclares "That we hold these
                    truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal that they are endowed
                    by their Creater certain unalienable rights that among these are life liberty
                    and the pursuit of happiness". And God declared from mount Sinia that
                    "the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that in them
                    is"
            The Jews distinguished their God by the God that created the heaven and the earth
                    the sea and all that in them is. And the old regular baptist articles of faith
                    declares that. We believe that God purposed in himsilf for his own glory to make
                    a display of his wisdom, power justice, goodness, and truth, in the works of
                    creation which he hath made.
            and yet it is common among the old regular baptist right in the presants of these
                    declarations to be talking and preaching of these two order and they by their
                    reasoning (or rather want of reason) shew that they are of the favored order and
                    that by the grace of God. They can shew by the parable that the saviour spoke of
                    sheep and goats. therefore these must be—I know not what, two seed or
                    two breeds—but I suppose the elect and the other order is what is
                    tryed to be ment.
            I deny that there ware two orders of people in the creation of God But there has
                    been two orders created sense. Great and small not by the grace of God. Lords
                    Dukes Kings and Emperors all pretend to rule by the grace of God. All the would
                    be great claim by the grace of God. The self stiled well bred and well born
                    claim by the grace of God. The Pharicees exclaimed agains Christ and his
                    apostles by the grace of God as they supposed. The Pharisee at prayer railed
                    upon the penitant publican by the grace of God. The Jews and perticularly the
                    unbelieving Jews believed themselve to be of the favored order and so by the
                    grace of God pursecuted the Christians. The Christians in turn persecuted those
                    by the grace of God that they considered of the unfavored order.
            The clergy of all the establishd churches seem to think or to have thought that
                    the common people to have been born with saddles on their backs (a very unfaver
                    order) and themselves  with spurs upon their
                    heels by the grace of God ready to ride.
            And now we have as some suppose two order. The elect by the grace of God sent
                    into the world to be kept seperate from the people of the world—the
                    special objects of Gods favour and care and finally to be carried by the grace
                    of God to unspeakable bless. While the other order or non elect being the most
                    numerous order was sent or reather forced into the world without their own
                    consent endowed with common human facketies such as feeling sensabilities to
                    commit sin and blasphemy which by their situation or the nature of they order
                    they cannot avoid and then to be called to Judgment for it and sentanced to go
                    down to endless pain by the grace of God and at no period of their existance was
                    it in their power to better their condition.
            The children of Abraham it is true seem to have been a seperate order or race of
                    men. And gods purpose for keeping them seperate is declared to be that in
                    abraham should all the kindreds of the earth be blessed. Not as they ignor-endly
                    supposed for their special benefit. But that in them all nations of the earth
                    might be benefited or blessed.
            Rom 9–11 The purpose of God according to election. The purpose of God.
                    Abraham was chosen by the grace of God and the purpose was
                    declared to be that in his seed should all kindred of the
                    earth be blessed. They which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. Ye
                    are all the children of God by fath in Christ. And if ye be Chists then are ye
                    Abram's seed. And heirs according to promise Gal 3 chap In the third
                    chapter of Gal. it is shewn that is of faith or the belever in Christ is the
                    children or seed of Abraham and heirs according to promis altho heathen.
            The twelve was chosen and the purpose was to be His witnesses.
                    To bare the glad tidings of salvation to the uttermost parts of the earth by the
                    grace of God.
            Paul was chosen for the purpose of baring his name far hence to
                    the Gentiles to turn them from from darkness to light from the power saten unto
                    God that they might receive forgiveness of sins and inhirit by faith. And he
                    that is of  faith is the seed of Abraham and
                    heirs according to promise glorious purpose.
            The Jews ware chosen a peculiar people and shut up under the law untill the seed
                    should come which was Christ that he by the grace of God should Heb
                    2–9 tast death for every man 1 Tim 2–6 who gave himself a
                    ransom for all 2 Cor 5–14.15 because we thus judge that if one died
                    for all then ware all dead. And that he died for all 1 J 2–2 and he
                    is the propisiation of our sins and not for ours only but also for the sins of
                    the whole world 2 Peter 3–9 not willing that any should perish but
                    that all should come to repentance. The above seems to shew one order for whom
                    Christ died. And if there be any other order I shall not try to shew how it
                    exist. But I will observe that sin has been the cause of many orders of people
                    but I do not understand that any of them existed before Adam for by Adam sin got
                    into the world and death by sin. But sin is not imputed when there is no law.
            I do not believe that Jesus Christ chose out his favourite elect before the
                    Creation of Adam willingly knowing that all other of the sons of men would go
                    down to eternal woe. It is contrary to his delight. Prov. 8th For his delight
                    was with the sons of men It is contrary to his compassion as shown when he wept
                    over disobedient Jerusalem. It is contrary to his feeling. For we have not a
                    high priest that cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities Heb
                    3–15.
            CHAPTER SIXTH
            
            I promised to try to shew that the two seed doctrine was a hethan opinion.
                    Sertain it is that the opinion of or that there is one and has been two and some
                    times more than two orders of human beings has existed among the heathan from
                    long before Christ and still exist is certain.
            The firs hethan creed not found in the sacred writings may be found in
                    Homer's Iliad where Hecter trys to comfort his wife at Starting to the
                    war. He says
            
                    Why with untimely sorrow heaves thy heart No hostile hand can antidate my
                        doom Till fate condemn me to the silent tomb Fix, is the term of all the
                        race of earth  And such the hard
                        condition of our birth No force can then resist no flight can save All sink
                        alike the fearful and the brave.
                
            The first king of rome was a production between the vestal virgin Rhea Sylvia and
                    the god Mars.
            The king of Babylon was a production between Jupiter and aurora. And Isaiah
                    addresses him by his hethan character when he pronounced Judgmnt agains him and
                    said "O Lucifer son of the mornings; Rome was famous for her two orders
                    the Patrition and the plebians and to incourage the opinion there was an opinion
                    promoted that there was monsters called such as Satyrs—part men and
                    part goats. And now forsuth there is two seeds the one a production between our
                    old Mother Eve and satan something like the production between Rhea Sylva and
                    the god Mars and is supported by John's saying that Cain was of that
                    wicked one not considering that Eve bare Cain and said I have goten a man from
                    the Lord. Others try to shew that the one order was brought forth by Gods
                    multiplying the conception of the woman something like the hethan Hindoos who
                    has four orders the first sprung from the head of their god Brimha when he
                    created the world. The second order sprung from the heart of Brumha the third
                    order sprung from the belly of Brimha the fourth order sprung from the feet of
                    Brimha and is incapable of raising themselves to any superior rank but like our
                    Christian inferior or unfavoured order for whom Christ did not die is doomed to
                    drag out a life of misery hear and then go to eternal, wo and misery. O shame
                    where is thy blush.
            And now a few words about the two seed. In the eighth chapter of John's
                    gospel Jesus says verse 37th I know that ye are Abrahams seed then at the 44th
                    verse he tells the same men ye are of your father the devil—at verse
                    47 he says ye are not of God all to the same men—see the whole
                    chapter Jesus shews that the unbelieving Jews ware not the children of Abraham
                    they ware the seed of Abraham by blod or lineage and Paul shews that the hethan
                    Galatians ware the children of God by faith and the seed of Abraham and heirs
                    according to promise—see 3d Gal 26-to 29th. For ye are all the
                    children of God by faith in Christ Jesus—26 and if ye be  christ's then are ye Abraham seed and
                    heirs according to promise 29 Gal 4–7 Thou art no more a servant but
                    a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.
            Paul addressing the Athenian Greeks himself being a jew says we are the offspring
                    of God Acts 17–30 now commandeth all men every whare to repent verse
                    31 Because He hath appointed a day in the which he will Judge the world in
                    ritious-ness by that man whom he hath ordained. Whereof he hath given assurance
                    unto all men. And all men is the offspring of God Some has tryed to support the
                    doctrine of the two seed by reasoning that a goat cannot becom a sheep see Rom
                    9–26 in the place where it was said unto them Ye are not my people
                    there shall they be called the children of the living God Gal 3–22
                    But the scriptur hath concluded all under sin that the promise by faith of Jesus
                    Christ might be given to them that believe. For ye are all the children of God
                    by faith in Christ Jesus and if ye be christs then are ye abrahams seed and heir
                    according to promise. And no more a servant (or a child of the devil) but a son
                    and if a son then an heir of God through Christ (jointly 1 John 3–10)
                    In this the children of god are manifest and the children of the devil whosoever
                    doeth not righteousness is not of god neither he that loveth not his brother Gal
                    3–6 Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for
                    rightiousness verse 7th They which are of faith are the children of Abraham.
                    Acts 13–10 O full of all subtilty and all mischief thou child of the
                    devil thou enimy of all rightiousness &c. Here was a child of the devil
                    1 John 3–8 He that commiteth sin is of the devil. For this purpose
                    the Son of God was manifested that he might distroy the works of the devil. A
                    sinner is the work of the devil—is a child of the
                    devil—the seed of the devil or of that wicked one. Cain was of that
                    wicked one tho he was not a child of the devil untill he commited sin for Eve
                    said of him "I have gotten a man from the Lord".
            O that the Son of God would distroy the works of the devil which is those that
                    commit sin by converting them into the Seed of abraham by faith—the
                    children of God by faith.
            I have tryed to shew my views of the Christian two seed and the hethan two seed.
                    Or rather the hethan two seed is  and long
                    has been interwoven with Christianity. I for one am satisfied that the belief
                    that there is two orders of men in the worl by Gods appointment or two seed or
                    two breed is of hethan origion and not of the gospel but to be consumed by the
                    gospel or by the brightness of his coming.
            I am come that they might have life John 10–10.
            I am come a light into the world John 17–46
            Luke 2–32 A light to the gentiles
            1 John 3–8 The Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the
                    works of the devil. Paul was sent for hense to the gentiles Acts
                    26–18 to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and
                    from the power of Saten unto God. John 14–30 The prince of this world
                    cometh and hath nothing in me.
            All that tends to make distinction among men is of the devil. All that exalteth
                    itself above its fellows is the works of the devil Whatever teaches that God has
                    mad one man better than another or delights in one man or set of men more than
                    another or has made greater provision for the salvation of one man than another
                    or has not created all men equally free or gave one man greater or better rites
                    than another is of the devil or works of the devil. All rules customs and laws
                    that gives one man or set of men an advantage over an other. Whether created by
                    long standing habit fashion or legislature anactment for the benefit of a part
                    to the exclusion of any is the works of the devil and the Son of God was
                    manifested to distroy it.
            When the saviour come into the world the self stiled seed of abraham had caught
                    the hethan two seed spirit of distinctions and customs and orders (works of the
                    devil) and the doctrine that he preached made them out the seed of Satan and
                    taught equality among men therefore his word had no place in thim. It was ruin
                    to all their monopolising scheems and honorable distinction that they had
                    created to bee seen of men, and to overreach and oppress their fellows and
                    struck at one at all monopolizing practices and customs and shewed them that the
                    partition wall between them and the hethan and all those that they held in
                    contempt must be broken down and a way opened for the gentiles to become the
                    seed of  abraham and receiv the gift of the
                    Holy Ghost as well as we. The Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the
                    work of the devil—He was or is a perfect levilor. He is to bring the
                    mountains low and make the rough places smooth. And all flesh shall see the
                    salvation of God Luke 3–6. He must reign till he hath put all enimies
                    under his feet. And when all things shall be subdued unto him then shall the Son
                    also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him that God may be
                    all in all.
            November 15–1844 I have just heard that James K. Polk is elected
                    president over 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                    . This has been a hard contested election. But few voters have
                    neglected the poles, democrycy has gained ground
            And now I tell my sons and all that may ever see these memiors that democry will
                    succeed. All laws usages and customs that opperate unequal or oppress all is
                    directly or indirectly the works of the devil and must be distroyed by the
                    brightness of this coming. The gospel teaches to rule as you would be ruled.
                    Democry is one of the blesing we obtain or receive by the coming of Christ or by
                    the brightness of his coming. "I come a light into the world. A light
                    to the gentiles.
            CHAPTER 7 SEVENTH
            
            A few Scattering remarks on the new birth and baptism Luke 7–30 But
                    the Pharisees rejected the council of god against themselves being not baptised
                    of him (John) Luke 7–28 Among those that are born of women there is
                    not a greater than John the baptist but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he—Math 11–11
                    among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the
                    baptist notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of
                    heaven is greater than he Luke 16–16 It is shewn' by these
                    two pasages the kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven are the same Luke
                    16–16 The law and the proffits war untill John since that time the
                    kingdom of God is preached. The Pharisees ware not baptised. But when the name
                    of Jesus become great and John had declared him the lamb of God and others had
                    declared him the king of Irael then a 
                    Pharisee a ruler of the Jews come to Jesus by night and began to applaud him in
                    order to be one of the foremost in the new kingdom. But Jesus declared that
                    except a man be born of water and of the Spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom
                    of God. This shocked the Pharisee for he saw he would have to be baptisied and
                    then he would loose his place among the Jews for they had agreed that whosoever
                    confessed him should be put out of the synagogue.
            A berth is a change of life or manner of living and to be born again is another
                    change or a new birth. It is to live in a new way or live a new
                    life—to pass from a state of death to a state of life or a living
                    situation and by some called giting religion but all agree that it is becoming a
                    new cree-ture as far as the practices of life is conserned or puting on the new
                    man. Col 3–9 lie not one to another seeing that ye have put off the
                    old man with his deeds 10 and have put on the new man Rom 6–4 we are
                    buried with him by baptism into death that like as Christ was raised up from the
                    dead by the glory of the Father even so we also should walk in newness of life.
                    New birth Col 2–12 Buried with him in baptism where in also ye are
                    raised with him through the faith of the opperation of God who hath raised him
                    from the dead 1 J 5–6 This is he that come by water and blood even
                    Jesus Christ: not by water only but by water and blood. And it is the spirit
                    that bareth witness because the Spirit is truth 7 For there are three that bare
                    record in heaven. The Father the Word and Holy Ghost and these three are one 8
                    and there are three that bare witness in earth the spirit and the water and the
                    blood and these three agree in one. John 1–32 I knew him not but that
                    he should be made manifist to 
                        Israel
                     therefore am I come baptising with water. And when Jesus was
                    baptised went streightway up out of the water and the spirit abod upon him and
                    the voice proclaimed him the son So there was the Water Son Spirit and Father
                    all preasant and evident and if the blood here mentioned ment the liniage then
                    the whole was compIeatly manifest for Joseph and Mary was known to be of the
                    legal blood and the house of David.
            John did not use the whole river of 
                        Jordan
                     to baptise but he used water and if used as a seal or witness of a
                    birth  or change of life or of the enterance
                    in to the kingdom may be so far proper but I view a burial necesary to a vallid
                    baptism, perhaps the blood here spoken of was the blood of the new testament for
                    Christ calls the cup (or wine) my blood of the new testament—and
                    testament meens testamony or evidence if so the wine in the sacrament and the
                    water in baptism and spirit is the three that bare witness on earth. John
                    baptised with water that Christ might be made manifest to 
                        Israel
                     The wine in the sacrament Christ calls my blood and said do this in
                    remembrance of me and so they are both memrials and conciquantly bare witness.
            CHAPTER 8TH
            
            The strange doctrine of the two seed which represents Saton being some way
                    instrumental in bringing an order of men into existance not of the Adamic line
                    and for whom Christ did not die has raised another question. A question as to
                    the origion of satan. Some seems to consider him a selfexisting being Some hold
                    that evil has existed from un-begining eternity and prodused satan others hold
                    that he come out of the bottomless pit and has stood opposed to God ever sise
                    there was a God without attempting to account for his origion.
            So it is among the believers of the two seed doctrine Satan is a great being
                    prety neare a match to the Almighty in power and almost or quite as cunning.
                    this question I will make a few remarks and cote some scripture. I will first
                    remark that I do not worship a god that is not almighty or any being that might
                    in affict say to him Jehovah what doeth thou. I view him the creater.
            From mount sinia we hear it declared by God himself Ex 20–11 In six
                    days the Lord made the heavens and the earth: the sea and all that in them is
            Nehemiah 9–6 thou even thou art Lord alone thou hast made heaven: the
                    heaven of heavns with all their host; the earth and all things that are therein:
                    the sea and all that is there in and thou preservest them all.
            Col 1st 16–17–18–19–20 For by him
                    ware all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth: visible and
                    invisible  whether they be thrones or
                    deminions or principallities or powers all things ware created by him and for
                    him 17 and he is before all things and by him all things consist 18 That in all
                    things he might have the pre-emenence 19 For it pleased the Father that in him
                    should all fullness dwell 20 and having made peace through the blood of his
                    cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself by him I say
                    whither they be things in earth or things in heaven.
            Rev 4–11 Thou art wothy O Lord to receive glory and honor and power
                    for thou hast created all things: and for thy pleasure they are and ware created
                    Job 26–6 Psalms 139–8 Eph 3–9 If Satan is a
                    host a power or a thing visible or invisible his maker is discribed.
            Some have reasoned that if Saton was made he must be matterial and if matterial
                    then he can be located.
            Rev 19–9 and the dragon was cast out that old serpant the devil and
                    satan he was cast out into the earth Rev 12–8 neither was there place
                    found any more in heaven (for him) Rev 20–2 and he laid hold on the
                    dragon that old serpant which is the devil and satan and bound him and cast him
                    into the bottomless pit Rev 20–10 And the devil that deceivd them was
                    cast into the lake of fire and brimstone.
            This last mentioned devil seems to be a specified devil as there is many devils
                    spoken of Luke 10–18 I beheld satan as lightning fall from heavan
            Matthew 4–5 The devil taketh him up 8 again the devil taketh him up 10
                    get thee hence Satan 3 and when the tempter come to him
            Perhaps he is one of the angels which kept not their first estate but left their
                    own habitation he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the
                    judgment of the great day.
            I presum it to be safe to consider the almighty to be the supreme governorur and
                    ruler of the Universe who is able and does controll and manage heaven earth hell
                    and boundless spase and none can stay his hand or say Jehovah what doest thou
            It was not necessary to our salvation to know the origion of satan if it had been
                    it would have been made known to us  Satan
                    is but seldom mentioned in the old testament. I will cote a few scriptures and
                    the reader may make his own in-firances Psalms 2–7 Thou art my Son
                    this day have I begotten thee Heb 1–8 but unto the Son he saith Thy
                    throne O God is forever and ever—God thy God hath anointed the above
                    thy fellows Heb 1–6 Again when he bringeth in the first begotten into
                    the world he saith. And let all the angels of God worship him. Hear a proud
                    selfish unbelieving spirit disobayed. Lucifer king of Babylon was also king of
                    mistical Babylon and Isaiah says chap 14–13 Thou hath said in thy
                    heart I will assend into heaven I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I
                    will assend above the hights of the clouds I will be like the most High. This
                    was lust James 1–15 when lust hath conceived it bringeth forth sin
                    and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death Eph 2–2 The spirit
                    that now woketh in the children of disobediance Heb 2–14 that through
                    death he might distroy him that had the power of death that is the devil Rev
                    12–7 Michael and his angels fought against the dragon Jude
                    1–9 Michael the archangel when contending with the devil derst not
                    bring against him a railling accusation.—Christ declared himself to
                    John to be the Alpha and the Omega the begining and the end—The first
                    and the last. He also declared to his diciples that All power was given him in
                    heaven and in earth and commanded them to go ye into all the world preach the
                    gospel to every creature. He had declared himself to be the first and the last
                    and that He had all power and commanded his deciples to preach the gospel to every creature, every creature and he must be very ready to
                    expose his ignorance who would pretend to shew among every creature one to whom
                    the gospel was not comanded to be preached by him who had all power.
            CHAPTER 9
            It was upon the 14th day of February 1844 in the morning when I arose out of bed
                    I was in as good health so far as I new as I had been for some time and I went
                    to the fire and took hold of the shovel to stur the fire. I felt my head swim. I
                    reeled and felt like falling I caught hold of and supported myself against the
                    wall and thought I would soon feel better. 
                    My head continued to swim. I said to my wife that my head swam greatly and she
                    said take care you don't fall in the fire I said I believe there is
                    danger she said come to bed. I then started toward the bed and stagered very
                    much. My wife jumped out of bed and supported me to the bed where I fell
                    prostrate and was covered up and turned very sick and began to vomit and thought
                    I should feel better when I had discharged my stumach. I sweated perfusely and
                    continued to vomit. The doctor was called in. But before I got back to bed I
                    felt my left thy give way and before the doctor come I felt my left arm much
                    peralized. The doctor when he come said it was a shock of dead palsey. My left
                    arm and left leg remained peralized. I continued vomiting till one
                    o'clock at night and was 48 hours before I attempted to rise out of bed
                    and then could not walk without one to support me. In the corse of two weeks I
                    could walk with a staff and on the fourth monday in march being associate Judge
                    I attended court during the session.
            For a few years past the Democrats in order to unight their strength had been in
                    the practice about the first of May to hold a convention composed of delegates
                    from each township and nominate suitable persons as candidates to be voted for
                    at the coming August election. In May 1844 A convention was held to nominate
                    candidates. And as the associate Judges places was to fill this year. And as
                    opinion has long provaild that it was not good policy in a republic and
                    especially among democrats to keep one man in office too long The convention
                    nominated two men as candidates in place of the Hon George May and myself. I was
                    presant when the convention reported and addressed the house. Acquiesed ip the
                    decision of the convention and thanked them and through them the county of 
                        Washington
                     for what they had already honoured me which will be ten year and a
                    half the 24th of Feb 1845 Many persons thought that May and myself had been
                    treated ungenerous by the convention and as the Whigs considered it useless to
                    offer any candidates this year Judge May and myself was strongly solicited to
                    offer by Whigs and democrats. I refused and May consented and become a candidate
                    and was beeten. The nomonees of the convention succeeded.  Ana I was much applauded for my firmness as a
                    democrat. I had genirally been a member in those conventions and knew that they
                    would think hard of me if I should offer. And I knew the Whigs would not vote
                    for me unless it would be for the purpose of defeating the convention and being
                    in but bad health I thought it prudant to retire in credit and I believ in
                    friendship with all or nearly so. December 7th 1844.
            This year a president was to be elected The Whigs supported 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                     and a convention at 
                        Baltimore
                     nominated James K Polk and the Democrats supported him; The canvass
                    was of the most agitating nature. The strength of each party was brought out.
                    But few voters neglected the poles. The Whigs seemd to view it as a contest of
                    life and death. Their very existance as a party seemed to be at stake. Nothing
                    was left undone that could be done on both sides to in-shure success. Many
                    questions ware settled that was put in issue during the canvass. A U. S. Bank. A
                    protective teriff. And the annexation of the republic of Texes to the U. S. was
                    thoughroly examined and passed upon. Van Buren had been expected to be the
                    democrat candidate but he refused to come out plain upon the Texes question Polk
                    expressed his desire of annixation of Texes who was nominated. 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                     had in a letter opposed the annexation. But as the canvass
                    progressed the annexation question was dis-cowered to be popular Mr. Clay come
                    out in a second letter more faverable and afterwards in a third letter he
                    declared himself quite faverate if it could be done honourably and without war.
                    But it was too late the peoples desire was manifest and their minds made up and
                    Mr. Polk was chosen by a learge majority.
            From the time that the question of annexation of Texes was spoken of 7 or 8 years
                    ago I was in favor of it and when it was spoken of again just before the
                    presidental election I urged it strong. A good many hisitated at first. But as
                    the canvass progressed and it was discovered to be popular the democrats mostly
                    chimed in and shouted for Texes. I knew that countery had been lost to the U. S.
                    by a diplomatic blunder under the administration of James Monroe. The  Federalists opposed the purchase of 
                        Louisiana
                     under Thomas Jefferson and after changeing their names several
                    times and of late to Whigs and at last to Coons opposed recovering the lost
                    teritory of Texes which was really a part of 
                        Louisiana
                     but lost as I have said by a diplomatic blunder when John Q. Adams
                    was secretary of state (a Federalist then)
            At the commencement of the U. S. general government there was a party in favour
                    of a strong splended government and assumed the name of Federalists and has
                    sense assumed other names. And it is now expected they will take a new name
                    probably native Americans or Abolition natives or something not known what. The
                    first session that Thomas Jefferson Hindley [T. F. Henley was representative
                    from the Second District, 1843–1849] attended congress I wrote him a
                    letter in which I stated that 
                        Texas
                     was once a part of 
                        Louisiana
                     and was lost or bartered away while 
                        Monroe
                     was president and John Q. Adams was Secrateary of state in a treaty
                    with Don Onis the minister of 
                        Spain
                    . I recommended to Mr. Henley that if the question of the annexation
                    of Texes was agitated durin the session of congress and he should be at a loss
                    what way to vote he would be prety safe to vote against John Q Adams because I
                    believed that it was by his management that Texes was lost and he would be
                    opposed to its re-annexation. I also stated to Mr. Henley that the annexation of
                    Texes to the U. S. would be opening a country for the black or slave population
                    more congenial to their nature and perhaps to their final emancipation or at
                    least to their enlargement. Mr. Henley at my table in the presense of the family
                    and Col Monroe and Col Logan informed me that about the time he received this
                    letter he was enquired of how the project of annexation would be received in
                    Indiana, and not knowing what answer to give, he shewed my letter to Mr. [Gen.
                    Sam] Huston and others among which was 
                        Henry
                     A Wise and finally it was shown to president John Tiler who was at
                    that time negociating for Texes by the treaty making power. And Mr Henley
                    informed us that that this was the first indication from the free states
                    incourageing the project of annexation and the letter appearing to have come
                    from a man of information had its influence. So I may  consider that I bore a humble part in procureing
                    the reannexation of the Teritory of Texes to the 
                        United States
                    
            
            The opposers to this measure of annexation may be asertained correctly and its
                    advocates by the followind hand bill headed thus by six leading Whigs in 
                        Salem
                    
                    
                        Washington county
                    . 
                        Ia
                    . 
                        A GREAT WHIG MASS MEETING AND BARBECUE IN SALEM AUGUST THE
                            17th 1844
                        Come on friends and help us roll on the Great Whig Ball; Help us to keep
                            it rolling until Hidra-headed Locofocism with its annexation its repudiation its anti-Protection, its disunion
                            and its ant-patriotsm shall be crushed beneath its weight.
                     the result is known Polk is elected
            In September 1843 me and my wife attended the Lost River
                    association and heard old Nicholas Smith preach his celebrated sermon. In which
                    he shewed that all that was lost in Adam would be saved in Christ and then to
                    avoid univer-salism he shewed that God multiplyed the sorrows and conceptions of the woman and so (avoiding Daniel Parkers plan) brought
                    forth a vast multitude that neither transgressed in Adam nor was redeamed in
                    Christ and therefore could not be saved &c. To this doctrine Elder Moses
                    W. Sellers protested which caused a controvecy in the association. The
                    association took side with Elder H. Smith against Elder M. W. Sellers. The
                    church at 
                        Hebron
                     where I belonged took side gainst Sellers which clearly proved that
                    I was in a church that held the two seed doctrine against
                    which I boldly protested. The church where Sellers held his membership divided
                    into two parts each claiming to be the church. Sellers and his party of the
                    church together with three other churches formed a new association and called
                    it—. While these con-trovercies ware going on my wife Ruth being
                    fully satisfied of the mode of baptism by emmertion and believing it to be her
                    duty to be baptised and become a member of society joined that community of
                    baptists called the reformed baptist or cambelites and as I
                    considered the two seed doctrine a heathen doctrine I was not long deciding tho
                    not with out a pang to leave the church of Hebron and after consulting with my
                    son Samuel I united myself to or with the brethren  at Liberty where my wife held her membership. So my
                    wife and me are again in the same community of baptist members. I say again for
                    my first wife and me was in one church. And when my wife Ruth and me was married
                    she was a member of the 
                        Quaker
                     society and was disowned for marrying out of meeting. And after
                    living upwards of ten years out of any religious society did I say of her own
                    free will-vollen-taryly unite her self to the reformed baptist after being bap
                    tised by emmertion. And I soon after being Clerk of the Hebron church gave up
                    the books and papers and joined the same community.
            CHAPTER
                    THE 10TH
            
            August the 17–1847
            As I have mentioned in the proceeding pages the affect that the annexation of
                    Texes had in the election of James K Polk to the presidency It will be proper
                    here to mention some of its affects upon the country and government.
            The Mexicans apear to be a weak treacherous people and very ignorant in matters
                    of government espcially a republick and very cruel and willing to go to war but
                    not skillful nor brave as military men. And after James K Polk was elected It
                    being known that annexation was made a question in the canvass and many of the
                    congress men was elected upon the same question. It become a measure looked for
                    and expected. And as Texes was considered a free and independant state and
                    acknowledge as such by the 
                        United States
                     and some of the most powerful nations of Europe. It was considered
                    by the people of the 
                        United States
                     as their natural inherent right at all times and at any time to
                    form such government as they should think most likely to secure for themselves
                    their own safety and happiness. This the people of Texes seem to cocider most
                    likely to be done by annexing themselves to the 
                        United States
                     and becoming one of the states of the union which they did in the
                    most sollemn form and in the most legal manner. To this act or acts of the 
                        United States
                     of North America and Texes the government of 
                        Mexico
                     by her minister protested and informed the government of the 
                        United States
                     that the government of 
                        Mexico
                     would consider the annexation 
                    a declaration of war And without listning to any overtures from the 
                        United States
                     marched a learge army across the Rio Grande and commenced
                    hostalities upon the 
                        United States
                     army under the command of Gen Talor at Pallo Alto and was defeated
                    on the 8th of May. The next day they attacked them again and was routed horse
                    foot and dragoon by a very inferior army These acts of the government of 
                        Mexico
                     was soon conveyed to congress then in session was declared that by
                    the acts of 
                        Mexico
                     war exist between United Stats and 
                        Mexico
                     and called for the raising of an army of vollenteers. The country
                    from one end to the other resounded with the clangur of war. There appeared no
                    opposition. Both the great political parties "Whigs and
                    democrats" seem to vie with each other in sustaining the rights of our
                    common country with few exceptions. A company [D] was made up in 
                        Salem
                    
                    
                        Washington county
                    . Two of my sons Thomas Parr and David Parr entered the servise at 
                        Salem
                    . And when the company was organized Abram Dennis was chosen captain
                    and Thomas C Parr was chosen one of three Lieutenants. My son Morgan Parr enterd
                    the servise near Indianapolas in a company already organized under Cap [C. C.]
                    Nave who was aferwards promoted and the company was commanded by a cap [Stephen
                    C.] 
                        Crawford
                     whos company fell into the first Regiment of the Indiana Brigade.
                    And cap Dennisis company including my sons Thom and David fell into the second
                    Regiment. So my son Morgan a youth in his twentieth year fell into a different
                    company and Regiment from his brothers tho all was in the same Brigade and in
                    this way they ware conveyed by government to the seat of war and stationd upon
                    the Rio Grand. The first Regiment in cluding my son Morgan was stationed at the
                    mouth of the Rio Grand the second Regiment including my sons Thom and David was
                    stationed nine mile higher up at Belknap My son Morgan continued at the mouth of
                    the Rio Grand untill abou the twentieth of october when he fell sick and was
                    cent to the general hospital at Mattimoras where he continued and was nursed for
                    something like four weeks. And one of his brothers was with him part of the time
                    when he become so far recovered that he returned to the mouth of  the Rio Grand where he continued in a very low
                    state of helth friquntly visited by his brothers untill about the first of
                    December when the second and third Regiments ware ordered to march to the
                    interior of 
                        Mexico
                     and the first Regiment in which Morgan was; was left still
                    stationed at the mouth uf the Rio Grand where he grew more unwell and on the 7th
                    of December he was honorably discharged as unable for duty and on the 9th
                    together with others in like situation unfit for duty was sent home and on the
                    23d of December he was sat ashore at his uncle Morgan Parrs landing on the
                        Ohio River. But was unable to walk all the way up to
                    the house at 11 o'clock at night. Tho with much labour was able to
                    reach near enough to call so as to be heard and was assisted into the house
                    where he refused to ly on a bed but would ly by the fire till morning when
                    Samuel Parr his brother was sent for who come and carryd him to his house in 
                        Charlestown
                     where he was tenderly nursed untill the 31st when he died and was
                    buryed on the first day of January 1847 in the 20th year of his age. Alas my
                    soul
            The 2d and 3d Regiments of Indiana vollenters as I have said left their stations
                    on the Rio Grande early in December and marched by way of Camorgo and Monterey Saltillo &c. And after various marches and
                    counter marches met the Mexican army under the sillibrated gen Santo Anna 20
                    thousand strong. The army of the 
                        United States
                     under gen Talor was about five thousand strong mostly vollenteers.
                    My two sons Thomas and David was in the 2d Ind Regiment and on the morning of
                    the 23d February began the battle on the plain of Beuna Vista where they stood
                    untill they had discharged the average of twenty caterages to the man with ten
                    times their number of Mexican soldiers before them. And according to gen
                    [Joseph] Lains Suplimentary report would have drove the host that was at that
                    time before them from their position if it had not been for an
                    "unnessesary and un-autherised and cowardly order given by Col [Dr. W.
                    A.] Bowls to retreat which caused some confusion and as my son Lieu Thomas C
                    Parr was assisting a wounded soldier to the rear he was shot just above the left
                    eye and sunk down without a groan or struggle. The last words he was heard to
                         say was "huza my brave boys
                    take good aim and shoot low". A few minutes before he said to the other
                    Lieutenant. "They are doing very well now". and smiled. Thus
                    fell Thomas C Parr as he had said he wished to die on the battle field where
                    victory was won. Oh! My son my son. My son David was in the same Regiment and
                    was struck by a ball on the double of a wool hat Just above the left eye and
                    knocked down The double of the hat prevented the ball from makeing more than a
                    slite wound not worth reporting. But has caused a scare that he will carry to
                    his grave.
            Thomas was buryed on the memorable field of Beuna Vista with the calculation of
                    removeing his remains to Indiana by his friends and a small time before the
                    Indiana vollenteers started which was about the 24th of May for home his remains
                    was put in a tin coffin and sawdered up tite and the coffin inclosed in a wooden
                    box and transported with many others to his native state. Gen Lain gave notice
                    to the citizens of Indiana that a number of officers and men that was killed in
                    the battle at Beuna Vista was on the way to the state. And on the day that the
                    news reached 
                        Salem
                     that Lieu Parrs remains was actually on the way home a meeting was
                    held at 
                        Salem
                     to provide for a suitable reception of the vollenteers and I being
                    preasant was requested by citizens of the county to bury him in the burying
                    place near or in 
                        Salem
                     as the son of 
                        Washington County
                     and to have a monument erectqd over him to his memory. To this I
                    consented provided the monument to be erected should be to the memory of every
                    vollenteer that went from 
                        Washington County
                     and died of sickness incured in the army or fell in battle. [Four
                    of Co. D were killed.]
            At the aforesaid meeting there was a committy appointed to procure wagons to
                    convey the Vollenteers from the place of their landing at 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        Salem
                     with rejoicing and a black four wheeled herse was sent to convey
                    the remains of Lieu Parr. All of which was done with suitable serimonies. And a
                    day appointed for the burial. And notice given that divine servise would be
                    performed at the court house by the Rev. Wm. Shanks. But when the day of buriel
                    come. So great was the congrigation that attended the funeral that  ten such court houses would not have more than gave
                    them accomodation. Who repaired to the grove and after sermon
                    followed the remains of my son Thomas C Parr to his last resting place. And
                    buryed him with the honors of war. Myself and wife and four sons and two
                    daughters attended the funeral as mourners. And I could not help believing that
                    the respects shown to the dead on the occasion was intended in part to the
                    disconsolate father who was now called to mourn the second son that had fallen
                    in this unfortunate war that exists by the acts of 
                        Mexico
                    .
            Thomas C Parr was born on the 24th of February 1818 and killed on the 23d Feb
                    1847 He was elected a Justice of the peace the first monday in April before he
                    went to 
                        Mexico
                    . And his brother David Parr was elected to fill his place just one
                    week after his arival home. [David was a corporal.]
            At the anual election in August 1847 I was elected an associate Judge to fill the
                    place of the Hon Hugh M'Pheeters deceast to fill the remaining term of
                    seven years which is four years and a half on untill the 24th of February 1852.
                    This is the third time that I have been elected an associate Judge. Once for
                    three year and a half to fill a vacancy ocasioned by the resignation of the Hon
                    Wm. Hocket and once for a full term of seven years and now for the remaining
                    four years and a half of the unexpired term of Judge M'Pheeters. And if
                    I live and serve the term out I shall be sixty six years of age.
            CHAPTER
                    THE 11TH
            
            Before my three sons left 
                        New Albany
                     for the seat of way I went to see them at their camp
                    "Whitcome" and when I left thim and bade them farewell I
                    considered it not probible that I should ever see them all again. Dreading more
                    the unhealthy climate they ware going into than their fall in battle. I had not
                    discurged them from going nor incuraged further than in their raising I had
                    always held up to their view the duty that was as I considered enjoined upon
                    every man in a republican government to support the government that protected
                    him. And in some of my remark after my sons ware gone I exclaimed pretty
                    severely against those who would  exercise
                    all the rights and priviledgs guaranteed by the government and the right of
                    sufferag and do nothing towards the defence of it. Those remarks reaching the
                    ears of the quakers gave offence. And some hard feeling was occasioned thereby.
                    They blamed me to my face. I become more warm and agitated than common and said
                    in the contention that "I had three sons gone to the war and I was
                    willing in my old age to be used up in my countrys
                    defence" I adressed a long letter to one of their leading men and
                    through him to the whole society. Showing what I considered in them to be great
                    incosistance both in pollicy and religion. And as it may not be amiss here I
                    will give a small extract of a letter from Thomas C. Parr to James Rodman son.
                    Dated camp Belknap October the 22–1846. "We are here ready
                    and have had to encounter the climate. But when we reflect that we are
                    contending for the rights of our country. For the rights of millions yet unborn.
                    As I do believe that this war will settle a permanant boundry between this
                    country and 
                        Mexico
                    . If so they seeing our democratic republic institutions it will
                    soon be infused through the whole of 
                        Mexico
                    . And ear long she will become one of those proud republics where
                    free men will have the right to chose their Rulers and Worship their God none
                    dare hinder or make them afraid." Here was the con-ciencious oppinion
                    of Thomas C Parr tested by undisputable acts of the hardes service and self
                    denial which he finally confirmed with his blood of the memerable field of Beuna
                    Vista. But thos conciencious scruples kept up as a kind of fence for no other
                    visabl purpos than to guard the most selfish, indolent ease, has but little to
                    prove its cincerity. Paul Charged his Christian brethren at 
                        Rome
                     while under the millitary rule of the Cesars to be subject to the
                    powers that be for concience sake. And Peter gives about the same charge. And
                    the belovd disciple said we aught to lay down our lives for our brethren. And
                    our brethren is our country and our country is our brethren. In some
                    conversation relative to the war I said that the quakers ware torys with some
                    exceptions and a quotation from the 5th Vol of a book entitled the [Sanderson]
                    Biography of the signors of the declaration of Independance will show how far I
                    was autherised to say  so (And which may be
                    found in the 
                        Salem
                     lybrary) which reads as follows 
                        The sosiety was numerous, wealthy, and respectable, and its opposition
                            was powerful and active. In the beginning of the year 1775 there had
                            been a general convention of the people called quakers residing in 
                                Pennsylvania
                             and 
                                New Jersey
                             which had put fourth a testamony denouncing the congress
                            and all its proceeding.
                     Vol 5 page 143.
            In the revolutionary war for a man to denounce congress or hussa for king george
                    was considered sufficient evidence of toryism. And for partys in armis was
                    considered sufficient authority to fire
            My two sons Thomas and David voenteered at 
                        Salem
                     and marched under cap Dennis. My son Morgan lift me without leave
                    and joined a company that was on its march from Hen-drix county. And in that way
                    was not in the same Regiment with his brothers. Who was in the 2d Regiment and
                    Morgan fell into the first Regiment and was stationed at the Mouth of the Rio
                    Grand where he fell sick about the 20th of October 1846 and continued very low
                    and in a declining state of helth untill the 7th of December when he was
                    discharged and on the 9th was started for home with others under the care of an
                    officer. And arived at 
                        Charlestown
                     on the 23d of December and lay at the house of his brother Samuels
                    untill the 31st he died and was buryed on the first day of January 1847. Thomas
                    fell at Beuna Vista on the 23 February and Samuel mooved from 
                        Charlestown
                     to Quincy in Illinoys and died on the 30th of November So I lost
                    three sons in the exact space of eleven months.
            My son David got home from the war and in a short time after went to the west and
                    has purchased land and located himself in the state of 
                        Iowa
                     and when he gets married (if ever) will likely sittle himself there
                    or some where in the west.
            The war is now over and peace is now made with 
                        Mexico
                     Uper californa and 
                        New Mexico
                     is ceded to the united State and Texes is freed from invation and
                    its independance as a state of the union permanently established and the
                    teritory of the united States extended from the Atlantic to the pecific  Ocean a distance of something like three
                    thousand miles in-cludind from North to south the best lattitud for a thick
                    population upon the earth. And if it should go on as it has begun and improve.
                    The best government to make men happy in the inhabited world. And I think I may
                    congratulate myself a little. That my Grandfather and father assisted in the
                    revolution war for indipendance. I assistd in the war of 1812. My three sons in
                    the Mexican war and altho two of them lost their lives in this war. Yet I have
                    the consolation to believe that they ware ingaged in securing the means of
                    making millions of inhabitats happy that are yet unborn and that may never hear
                    their names And altho there ware vast numbers of men in the revolution war that
                    exclaimd against it as unjust and impolitic and also against the war of 1812 and
                    the late war yet I have the further cosolation to believe that the present democratic form of government will go on improve and prosper
                    untill with the blesing of God it has silenced all its gainsyers and incourage
                    those that injoy its blessing with thankful hearts to sue for new favours.
            And here I will take occation to say that I think that the time has arived that
                    there is no need hereafter if soldiers should be needed (which God grant they
                    never may) to draft malitia. But let the government call for volenteers and
                    offer liberal wages sufficient to compensate for the servise required and if the
                    call should be approvd of generaly as the late war has been there will be plenty
                    of stout able bodied patriots ready and willing to respond to their countrys
                    call and as the government has the means abondantly should remunerate them amply
                    for their service.
            December the first. The election for President is now over and it is known that
                    Gen Talor is elected. And is the first man that was ever elected president while
                    holding a military commision. And altho Talor cannot be considered a match to
                    gen Scot in military sciants. Yet his military success has rendered him popular
                    and the Whigs Judging Kim to be available they nominated him and have succeeded
                    in electing him president altho they exclaimed against the war as unjust
                    unconstitutional unnessary and useless with an extravigant wast of treasure to
                    accomodate the president and  called it
                    Polks war and many other abusive declaration which they aught to have been
                    ashamed of for it was John Tiler a president of their own making that first
                    approved of the annexation of Texes by joint resolution of both houses in the
                    following words: 
                        That congress doth consent that the territory property included within
                            and rightfully belonging to the republic of 
                                Texas
                             may be erected icto a new state to be called the State of 
                                Texas
                             with a republican form of government to be adopted by the
                            people of said republic by deputies in convention assembled with the
                            concent of the existing government in order that the same may be
                            admitted as one of the States of this 
                                Union
                            .
                     and with some other additional provisions. This resolution John Tiler
                    approved of on the first day of march 1845 two days before his term expired. All
                    of which was complied with by the people of Texs and they as a state received by
                    the next congress into the 
                        Union
                     legally according to their unalianable rights as set forth by the
                    declaration of independ-ance. In the following may the Mexicans attacked our
                    army under Gen Talor and Talor informed congress of the attack and congress by
                    an almost unanimous vote declared that "by the act of 
                        Mexico
                     war existed between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Mexico
                    ". This declaration was carried by two thirds of the Whigs
                    and nearly all the democrats and if Polk had been disposed to have vetoed the
                    measure he was already disarmed by a vote of two thirds of the Whigs To this war
                    (as I have before mentioned) three of my sons went as vollenteers. And with
                    their brave comrades met the enemy full four to one at the ever memerable field
                    of Beuna Vista and vanquished them where Thomas was shot dead and David was
                    struck by a spent ball on the double of a wool hat just above the left eye and
                    knocked down and wounded slightly but not worth reporting tho leaving a scar
                    Perhaps soldiers of no discription ever performed their duty better or with more
                    deliberate bravery. And none surpassed the Indianians The 2d Regiment stood
                    before ten times their own number of the enemy untill they had discharged twenty
                    catrages a man and last about ninety men killed and wounded. In which time they
                    had weakened the enimy about five hundrd killed and wounded and did not retreat
                    untill commanded by an unautherised  order
                    of their own colonel which caused some confusion but was soon rallied and aded
                    to the third Indiana Regiment and continued actively and advantigiously engage
                    until the last gun was fired. Under their own gen Lain as reported that they
                    discharged about eighty catrages a man in the day Yet gen Talor done the
                    Indianians great and manifest injustice in his report of the action; which the
                    Legislature of the state requested Gen Talor to correct, and which he refused to
                    do And the state as promptly refused to assist to make him president. The state
                    voted for Gen Jackson three times and for Gen Harrison twice But they
                    indignantly refused to vote for a man that refused to do them that justice that
                    has been so amply done by their own gen Lain and other incontistable evidence.
                    Neither can they have faith in the man that would withhold that renown from a
                    State that it had so justly acquired by sending more than five thousand
                    vollenteers to a war that was declared by an almost unanimous vote of the
                    constituted authorities of the 
                        United States
                     and has aded that to our country that I feel incompatent to set
                    forth or dis-cribe. The declaration of the—theto the contrary
                    notwithstanding.
            My son Morgan a youth of only 19 years was in the first Regiment and was
                    stationed at the mouth of the Rio Grande untill the 9th of December when he was
                    discharged, as unable for duty And in the care of an officer arived at Charles
                    town and in his native state and died (as I have before mentioned). After his
                    death I sent his captain S. C. Crawford a letter informing him of the fact who
                    kindly sent me a letter of condolance. Of which the following is an extrace
                        
                        I am deeply sorry for the death of my little friend Morgan. He was always
                            faithful to his trust, and never disobayed an order. In the times of
                            discouragement and our fare seemed hard and many would complain. Not one
                            murmur escaped his lips. And it was not till the fell monster diseas
                            laid hold of, and he grew feble that he was willing to relinquish his
                            duty and was only willing to go home and leave his comrades when he was
                            told that it was his duty to do so.
                    
            
            I am now a few days over the age of sixty three year. And am fast sinking into
                    second childhood. I have lived upwards of forty years in the state of Indiana. I
                    have seen the United  States enlarged and
                    expanded from the teritory of the origional thirteen state to near three times
                    the amount of terytory. From three million of inhabitants to twenty. Sciences,
                    Literature, and religion has increased unperileld in the history of man. Much of
                    this good we know has been the effect of the revolution war and the seperation
                    of our fathers from kingly power and those princely prelates that desired to
                    lord it over Gods heritage and which was obtaned at a cost of much blood and
                    treasure. And I am this day one of the happy reciptives of their pain and labour
                    and have no right to complain. My sons lost their lives in the cause of their
                    country. In the cause of an oppressed people. The oppressed Texens They had
                    aplied to our government to assist them to emmansi-pate themselves from one of
                    the most oppresive governments in the world. And according to the declared
                    rights set forth in the decaration of our independance the Texens had a right
                    founded in the eternal Justice of the creator to form for themselves just such a
                    government as they did and I rejoice at their success and the prosperity of my
                    country and the success of its arms. And I try to give up my sons cherefully But
                    when the natural feeling of a father returns upon me I almost involentaryly
                    exclaim with old Jacob. "For I will go down into the grave unto my sons
                    mourning". Thomas and David both left plantations and crops growing
                    upon them. And hastened to their countrys call and that without much hope of
                    reward and I am in hope with their brave comrades have proved to their country
                    satisfactoryly that when the government must have men in arms let it call for
                    volenteers. They will then get a willing soldier and one that will fight in the
                    day of battle and such men will well supply the use of a standing army. And let
                    those that are so ready and so willing to detract from the honest soldiers faim
                    stay at home like cowards as they are, or perhaps wors, and labour to supply
                    those that are risking helth life and every thing dear; with all the good things
                    that could render a soldiers situation comfortable. And in addition to a good
                    reward in the needful let him be forever held up by the
                    honorabl citizen that could not go, as his countrys good and faithful
                    represeta-tive in the day and hour of danger.
            
            
                    Enoch Parr was born November the 27th 1785 emigrated to Indiana in 1808
                        settled in 
                            Washington County
                         in 1809 was chosen associate Judge of the 
                            Washington
                         circuit court in 1834 and served until his time expired in 1845
                        was re-elected in 1847 and remgined in that capasity until his death which
                        occurred on July the 24th 1851 aged 65 years 7 months and 27 days.
                    Note kept by Enoch Parr, Associate Judge.
                    September term 1834.
                    Hugh Wires & Joseph Wires) vs.) In cace William Vest)
                    This was an action brought by the plantiffs for a sawmill built on Congress
                        land, and sold to the plantiffs by the defendant, and afterwards purchaised
                        by another Jacob Roberts man of government, On motion there was much
                        argument to shew that the evidence if aduceed would not support the action
                        as it had been brought into court. The court would not sustain the motion
                        but ordered evidence to go to the jury (this is a safe rule to let evidence
                        go to the jury)
                    Judgment for the plantiffs
                    And on motion of the defendant leave is given him to file reasons tomorrow
                        morning for a rule against the plantiffs to shew cause why a new triaI
                        should not be granted therein.
                    One of the counts were for money had and received.
                    No new trial granted.
                    Adam Couble VS. On an appeal
                    Edward V. Hagan
                    This was an action brought by the plantiff on a note for $18.00
                        for a gun payable in thirteen months or return the gun.
                    But if he (the defendant) returned from rangeing [Black Hawk War] before the thirteen months were out he was to return the
                        gun before.
                    He returned from rangeing before the thirteen months were
                        out and tendered the gun so soon as he (the defendant) could get it from 
                            Jefferson
                         villa where it had been left a few days on accoun of his (the
                        defendant) being sick.
                    The court was requested to instruct the jury that he must tender the gun the
                            moment he returned or be liable to pay the money.
                    The court instructed the jury that the defendant must have a reasonable time
                        to tender the gun so it was before the thirteen months
                        were out.
                    The gun was tendered before the thirteen months were out, and it was tendered
                        in court.
                    Judgement for the defendant.
                    
                    James McKinny vs. George Starbuck On an appeal from Esqr. Thomas
                    This was an action of tort for $50.00 commnenced upon the report
                        of a law haveing been passed by the Legislature raising the jurisdiction of
                        justices of the peace from twenty to fifty collars with a provision that the
                        law "should be in force from and after its passage" which
                        was the cace when the law came to hand which time was long after the action
                        was commenced.
                    The court decided that the Legislature had no constitutional authority to
                        give aditional jurisdiction to Magistrates when there was already
                        jurisdiction in a higher court "from and after its
                        passage" nor until the acts were deposited in the Clerks office,
                        Because Etc.
                    Dismissed for want of jurisdiction in the Justice of the Peace without cost.
                    N. B. When there is no jurisdiction the court cannot give judgement for
                        anything not even cost.
                    Bennet Paten vs. In George Beck & Andrew Beck repevin
                    This was an action brought by the plantiff for the recovery of wheat
                        distrained or attempted to be distrained by George Beck plaintiff and Andrew
                        Beck constible.
                    The wheat was taken under the writ of replevin by Arvin Wright.
                    It was in evidence that the plantiff was to give half the distrained wheat
                        for rent.
                    The defendants pleaded that the plantiff could not maintain an action of
                        replevin for goods the property of which was part in plantiff and part in
                        the defendants. That there could be no tortious takeing of joint property
                        held by the parties.
                    The following instructions were offered to the court and given to the jury in
                        almost the same words.
                    First Unless the plantiff has proved to the satisfaction of the jury a
                        wrongful takeing they must find for the defendants.
                    Second If the jury find there was a fraudulent division of the wheat that
                        division will be void and the property pretended to be divided shall remain
                        joint property the same as if there had been no division (some of the wheat
                        had been damaged)
                    Third If the jury believe the property to be in the plantiffs and another
                        jointly they must find for the defendants.
                    Fourth The jury cannot give a general verdict for the plaintiff unless they
                        find all the goods and chattels to be the sole property of the plantiff. See
                        Baylies index page 266.—
                    Fifth If the jury find the property of part of the goods and chattles part in
                        the plantiff and part not each party is entitled to damage and cost. Same
                        auther.
                    Verdict for the defendants.
                    
                    Elisha Driskill vs. Covenant
                    Hugh H. Rodman & James B. Rodman
                    This was an action brought by the plantiff upon a note for
                        $200,00, payable in plank and scantling.
                    The defendants pleaded that they had the plank and
                        scantling ready upon the day the note was due, and that they had had it
                        ever cince and still had it ready to discharge the note.
                    It was in evidence that the defendants had to the amount of five or six
                        hundread dollars worth of plank but only evidence of ten dollars worth of
                        scantling and not certain of more.
                    The plantiff requested the court to instruct the jury that if there was not
                        $100.00 worth of plank and $100.00 worth of scantling
                        they must find for the plaintiff—,
                    The court would not instruct as aforesaid—,
                    Then that there must be a proportionable quantity of each. The court would
                        not give those instructions neither—It was not in the contract.
                    But instructed the jury that if it had been proven that there was plunk and scantling sufficient at the mill selling price
                        on the day the note was due at the mill (for the law would persume that the
                        plank and scanting must be delivered at the mill) to discharge the note they
                        must find for the defendants—,
                    The court further said that if there had been but one dollars worth of
                        scantling it would have been plank and scantling that they
                        were bound to pay it when called upon, that they (the defendants) must
                        always have it ready for they were bailees for it—Had the
                        defendants on the day the note become due set apart the amount of it in plank and scantling to the plaintiff's use before
                        witnesses they might have discharged themselves intirely the instructions
                        were that it mus be ready on the day the note become due and must continue
                        ready—
                    Judgement for the defendants.
                    William M'Hemmey vs. Tresspass viet armes
                    Amos Thornburg
                    This was an action brought by the plantiff against the defendant for damages
                        for beating him.
                    The defendant pleaded justification that the plantiff was a tress-passor on
                        his premises.
                    There were three counts the substance of which was that the plantiff came
                        with four other persons and broke into his close on horse back and after
                        being requested to depart the defendant laid hands on the plantiff gently
                        and ordered him out, the plants said he would go when he was ready, and gave
                        much advation,—Then the defendant knocked the plantiff down with
                        a hand spike (for which plantiff demanded $50.00.
                    
                  
                     Judgment for the plantiff
                     $2.50
                  
                  
                     Cost
                     $2.50
                  
               
                    
                    In an action of this kind and several others if the plantiff does not recover
                        more than $5,00 he can onely recover the amount of the judgment
                        in cost. Acts of 1834, page 170—
                    The court instructed the jury that the law allowed the defendant to lay hands
                        gentley upon the plantiff and request him to go away and if he did not and a
                        battery ensued of necesaty it was his fault he ought to have went, but the
                        defendant was not authorised to begin by fighting.
                    The law would have authorised the defendant to flog him
                            moderately force to force untill he could get him away. But if
                        there was great danger in the defendant's laying gentle hands upon
                        him he might commence with greater force.
                    March Term 18351
                    James Hammersley Aaron Walker
                    Jeremiah Elixor Trustees for
                    Township school No. — Debt
                    vs. Timothy Winters & Wm. Vest
                    This was an action brought by the plantiffs aganst the defendants for one or
                        more instalments for land sold for the use of schools. The plantiff ware
                        discribed in the obligation as trustees and the money payable to them or
                        their succesors in office, But brought the suit in their own names for the
                        use of the school. To this the defendant pleaded that plantiffs could not
                        sutain his action in this form. To which plea the plantiffs by their council
                        demered. The court sustained the demurrer and held that the plea was good,
                        and the facts being apearant on the face of the papers it was not necessary
                        to call a Jury to determine—and the suit was dismissed.
                    
                  
                     
                        1 Atturnies in the
                  
                  
                      
                     March term 1836
                  
                  
                     C. Dewy
                     
                                
                                    Clark
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     H. P. Thornton
                     
                                
                                    Floyd
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     J. Rowland
                     
                                
                                    Washington
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     J. Kingsbyry
                     
                                
                                    Washington
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     A. C. Griffith
                     Jackson
                  
                  
                     H. W. Hackett
                     
                                
                                    Washington
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     S. C. Wilson
                     
                                
                                    Clark
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     Daniel Barkalow
                     
                                
                                    Jefferson
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     George Robinson
                     
                                
                                    Scott
                                
                            
                  
                  
                     R W. Thompson
                     
                                
                                    Lawrence
                                
                            
                  
               
                     James Ferguson vs. Horner Royce & Royce Trespass
                    This was an action brought by the plantiff for entering his close, cutting
                        timber and makeing a road to a toll Bridge. The statute of 1832 page 155
                        incorporated the company and autherized them to construct the Bridge and a
                        road to it. This act the defendants plead in bar to the action as their
                        lawful justification for the trespass commited. To  which the plantiff demured.—The
                        court sustained the demurrer and held that the defendants was lawfully
                        autheriwd to construct the Bridge and the road to it. But if they made use
                        of any other property than their own they ware subject to pay for it. The
                        facts being admited no Jury was called and the cause was continued for want
                        of evidence to prove the trespass or amount of trespass perhaps the facts
                        was not admited.
                    Williams. … for the (Appeal from I. Thomas Esq.
                    use of Sam. M'Clellin (Judgment for plaintiff and a new trial
                    vs. John M'Clellin it is Robert M'Clellin (debt on a Note
                        $30.00
                    The note was produced in court against which there was a receipt in full. It
                        was in evidence that plantiff and R. M'Clellin come to w.
                        M'pikes, where the note had been left for safe keeping by plantiff
                        and M'Pike wrote the recpt—he said he saw no money paid,
                        but said he heard plantiff say he had received the money before,
                        M'Pike also said he heard R. M'Clellin say that he wanted
                        the receipt to rebut against the note as he was sued for it by Sam
                        M'Clellin before a squire in W. county. In the trial before the
                        court Sam M'Cldins council introduced I. Thomas Esqr. to prove the
                        mutual conversation which took place between R. and S. M'Clellin on
                        the trial before him. In order to give in this court the answers of Sam.
                        when interogated on oath by Robert. But the court would not admit the
                        plaintiff de facto to give the statements he made in his
                        own faver on a former trias as evidence in this trial unless he had been
                        called upon to answer upon oath by Robert which was not done. (appeals are
                        tried de novo.)
                    March term 1836
                    Stephen Brown vs. in trespass
                    Ben Radclift
                    This was an action brought by the plantiff for entering his close and diging
                        and carrying away stone and trampling down grass and herbage. The plea was,
                        the land belonged to David Radclift and the defendant had leave and licence
                        to dig and carry away said stone. To this plea the plaintiff demured and
                        insisted that the Defendant had no leave or licence to trample down grass
                        etc. The court overruled the demurrer (If d't had leave to carry
                        away he had leave to trample down) The demurrer was withdrawn by the parties
                        and agreed to reply and the case was continued.
                    At the September term Radclift cast 
                            Brown
                         who was not able to prove any special damages tho the land was
                        not claimed by David Radclift on this trial—There was evidence
                        that the stone was worth something but no witness would say how much.
                    
                    John Wire for the use of
                    William Vest vs. Jacob Roberts
                    debt on a Note $50.00
                    The defendant Roberts pleaded want of consideration for which the note was
                        given and said acti non because the land for which the note was given he
                        purchased of Hugh & Joseph Wires and at the time of the purchase
                        said land belonged to the U. S. and he had since purchased it of the U. S.
                        Tho at the time of the purchas from Hu & Jo Wires John Wires
                        transfered Jo & Hus bond from Vest for a title to said land on which
                        there had been arected a sawmill by Vest. This was the substance of the
                        pleas. There was another plea that the note was procured by fraud to this
                        plea the plantiff by his council Thornton took issue. To the firs pleas Vest
                        by his Council demured and urged the court (Parr & Phelps) to
                        sustain the demurrer and insisted that as the plea did not state that Vest
                        was bound to make a lawful title the plea was bad. There was much argument
                        in favour of the plea. Mr. Rowland argued that as the land for which the
                        note was given belonged to congress at the time said note was given the plea
                        was a good bar to the payment of the note and ought to be so held by the
                        court. The court sustained the demurrer and the defendant Roberts by his
                        council Rowland asked leave to mend his plea which was granted to which Vest
                        by his council Thornton said he would reply. If the court had overruled the
                        demurrer and held that the plea was good and a sufficient bar to the payment
                        of the note there would have been nothing to do but to prove to the Jury the
                        facts contained in the pleas ware at set forth. But as the court held that
                        the pleas ware not a sufficient bar the pleas had to be amended in order to
                        get them before the Jury. It could not be kept out of view that Vest had
                        erected a sawmill upon said land that had been sold with it. Therefore there
                        was some consideration. It was known also to the court that the Wires had
                        sued Vest for the whole amount that they had given for the land and mill and
                        had obtained judgment against him in which this same note had been included.
                        [See No. 1, above.]
                    A Case in 
                            Clark county
                        
               
                    State of Indiana vs. Charles Dewy & John H. Thompson
                    For fighting in the court house in the presents of the court who ware fined
                        twenty dollars each
                    The entery was made on the docket that they be fined 20 dollars each or that
                        they pay a fine of $20.00 each. On which a scirefacias issued against both together to shew cause why
                        execution should not issue to collect the money Dewy mooved the court to
                        quash the scire-facias because it was a joint scirefacias and they had been fined severally Thompson
                        demured—Lawyer Kurst was of the opinion that there should have
                        issued several scirefaciases that is one a scirefacias
                         against each Mr. Hurst was also of the
                        opinion that the fine could not be collected at all because there was no
                        Judgment entered it should have been entered upon the docket "that
                        he make his fine $20.00 (or to the sum of $20.00) for
                        the use of the 
                            Clark county
                         siminary." But as it was it appeared that the court
                        had only come to the determination to fine them but had not entered a proper
                        judgment and which should terminate "and stand committed until paid
                        or replevied."
                    September Term
                    William Fauby for the use of S. McLellin vs. Robert McLellin
                    Debt on a Note See page 11 first trial
                    Up on this trial there was evidence that Sam M'Lellin went to
                        M'Pikes and paid the principle of a note and said his brother would
                        come shortly and pay the interest which appeard from a receipt. There was
                        evidence that S. said he was paying the money for R and Mrs. M'Pike
                        gave him the note upon which S had sued R for. There was evidence that Sam
                        said that Robert owed him large sums of money and he had credited him to the
                        amount.
                    The court instructed the Jury that if R imployed S to go or gave him money to
                        go and take up his note altho R might owe him other sums of money he could
                        not apply it to those debts. And if he did take up the note by paying the
                        principle only and promising that his Brother R would at another time pay
                        the interest it was the same thing, and if the interest was paid by R after
                        the suit was begun by Sam that would not chang the principIe. The court had
                        been requested to instruct the Jury that if R paid the interest after the
                        suit was commenced and after the note was in Sams hands that that would
                        destroy the effect of the receipt. But the court gave the above
                        instructions. Judgment for the defendant Robert.
                    Reubin Ard vs. C Prow and John Ard
                    in replevin
                    This was an action brought by the pl'f against the defendants for a
                        wagon taken and given up by John Ard to C. Prow to satisfy
                        an execution and claimed by Ru'n Ard as a pledge given up to him
                        for a sum of money lent. When the plaintiff's evidence was through
                        A motion was made by Thornton to suffer the Jury to go out and pass upon the
                        case of John Ard in order to introduce him as a witness which was overruled
                        and the trial progressed. On some occasions this course might properly be
                        persued. If it had appeared very clear that there was no evidence against it
                        might have been permited. When it is appearant that one of the defendants
                        was included in the writ in order to exclud his evidence it would be proper.
                    There was evidence that Reubin Ard went in the night and brought home the
                        wagon and hid it in brush wood lest an execution might take  it. And John Ard went to R Ard's and
                        Old Ard gave up the wagon to John and Prow executed the wagon and sold it to
                        Frankes and R Ard sued out the writ of replevin and had the wagon taken
                        possession of by the sherif—Judgment for the plantiff
                        $9.00 damage.
                    Thornton requested the court to instruct the Jury that a good pledge must be
                        taken possession of and kept; the court would not give that instruction, but
                        instructed that it would be a good pledge if the article was taken
                        possession of but it might be loaned and it was with the Jury to judge of
                        the honesty of the contract and that the pledge might be sold if that was
                        the contract—to make the money.
                    September term 1835
                    The Inhabitants of congressional Township No 3 N R 2 E debt VS. Timothy
                        Winters & Wm Vest security
                    This was an action brought by the trustees of a school Section for money due
                        on two years rent.
                    In this case the defeneant plead non est factium to the
                        obligation the plantiff offered Col Sayls as a witness to which defendant
                        objected by Thornton his council because he was one of the inhabitants of
                        said township and of course a party to the suit—The suit
                        progressed and the objection was reserved for further discusion.
                    In the course of the trial it appeared that Winters had assigned the
                        obligation to Col Sayls with a condition thereon for the payment of money to
                        Sayls and condition signed by Sayls and when the money was paid Sayls signed
                        the obligation back to Winters and when Sayls was again called on as a
                        witness the court rejected him because he was an assignee. It was the
                        condition of the obligation that for the occupation of the farm during the
                        year 1831 should be paid in march 1832 and if Winters should fail for one
                        whole year to pay, the premises should be forfeited upon this condition the
                        security Vest refused to stand any longer than the forfeiture.
                    The court decided that if the occupation of the year 1833 was not paid for on
                        the first of March 1834 the premises was forfeited and as Vest had tendered
                        the money for the year 1833 he could not be com-peled to stand or be
                        accountable for the year 1834 becase that would enable Winters to hold the
                        possession and subject Vest the security to pay—for it could not
                        be the meaning of the law that the occupior should be alowed to hold the
                        primises untill he could get two years in debt. Vest tendered the money in
                        court and left it with the clerk—Judgment for the defendant.
                    In this suit the plea of non est factium was founded upon
                        the fact that the obligation was given by mistake for $15.00 and
                        afterwards alered to $13.00 but as Winters had recognized it as
                        his deed by pay several years rent upon it the plea was not sustained.
                    
                    September term 1835
                    Pollocks vs. Fenny
                    on an appeal covenant broken upon an obligation for corn oats hogs and four
                        months work to the amount of $50.00.
                    The corn oats and part of the hogs had been delivered and some time of the
                        work had been performed; all the hogs had not been delivered and part of the
                        work remained unfinished which authorised Fenny to demand the
                        $50.00 there was evidence that Fenny had offered to do the work
                        after there was not time to compleat it but offered to bring a substitute
                        which was refused. The cause was then submitted to ref-ferees who ware sworn
                        by T Denny Esq and who after hearing the tes-tamony withdrew to make up an
                        award and after consultation called for Squire Denny to ask instructions who
                        went to said refferees who inquired if it was requisite to find any damages
                        Denny said not as there was none demanded the refferees then made up an
                        award for something over $20.00. There was a motion to set aside
                        the award. It was the opinion of the court that it was not lawful for any
                        person to go before the arbitrators (or refferees) except in the presance of
                        the Justice and the parties and that if the arbitrators wished instructions
                        they must return into court the same as a Jury before the parties.
                    The award was set asid and the suit left to be tried upon its own merits as
                        if no arbitration had been had upon it.
                    It was obvious that an attempt will be mad on the next trial to prevent Fenny
                        from recovering any thing because the whole contract was not performed.
                    September term 1835
                    Menaugh & Wate vs. H. G. Mozey
                    on an appeal from J. Thomas Esqr. by Jury
                    Upon the trial of this cause the plantiff prove that the defendant contracted
                        with the plantiffs to purchase their entire stock of hatting materials and
                        to give his note for the same with security payable in six months. The
                        defendt was to have said stock at cost or for what it was worth. And for the
                        purpose of ascertaining the amount the defendant and Wade went to the shop
                        for the purpose of takeing an amount of sd stock and agreeing upon the
                        prices and as they agreed upon the price of an article Wade set it down upon
                        a piece of paper with a pencil; They continued examining and priceing untill
                        they had gone through the entire stock the said Wade marking the price down
                        on the paper with his pencil, part of the time there was witnesses presant
                        and part of the time not.
                    The paper containing said articles and prices so set down by the said Wade
                        was offered in evidence to the Jury. To which the defendant by his council
                        objected but the objection was overruled. The witnesses that ware present
                        proved that the prices of those articles put down in their presents ware the
                        same as that agreed to by the parties with the  exception of some bows marked 75 cents which a
                        witness stated was agreed to by the parties to be at fifty cents each. There
                        was a number of articles upon the paper set down when no witness was
                        present. While takeing the amount of articles it was stated that
                        def't was to rent the shop where the materials was for the purpos
                        of carrying on the hatting business that defendant said something about
                        repairing the shop—Wade told dt. he might take possession of the
                        shop and materials as soon as he pleased reserving the right of one
                        Journimans continuing to finish som unfinished hats for a few days. Wade
                        observed dt. could have compleat possion on the next monday the stock
                        remaining in said shop Wade retaining the key. Within a few days a witness
                        enquired of dt. if he had compleated his bargain with plff. who said he
                        would not do so unless they knocked of forty dollars; said witness then
                        observed to the defendant you have received some of the property, some hat
                        bodies and a block defendant replied no I have received none of the property
                        except one finishing block. one other witness stated that the det. told him
                        that he was waiting for his brother to return who was out pedling hats to
                        bring horn some notes which dt. wanted for the purpose of makeing some
                        person safe in going his security. The plan-tiffs then offered to prove by
                        witnesses that they dismissed their workmen all except one journeyman a few
                        days to compleat the unfinished hats. as soon as the property was
                        inventoryed; also that the shop lay idle for several weeks, that stock lying
                        is subject to injury if not worked. To the introduction of this testimony
                        the deft. objected but the objection was overruled and sd. evidence given to
                        the jury. The plantiffs by their council proposed to ask several witnesses
                            hatters what damages they thought the plantiff
                        sustained by dismissing their hands, the injury occasiond to the materials
                        and stock the shop being idle several weeks to which questions the defendant
                        by his council objected but the objection was overruled and the witnesses
                        permitted to answer—one stated the damage at twenty dollars
                        another at one hundred others sums between those sums.
                    Virdict for the plantiff $24.00 damg. The defendant mooved the
                        court for a rule against the plantiff to shew cause why the virdict should
                        not be set aside and a new trial granted—and filed the following
                        reasons—1st That said Virdict is contrary to law and
                        evidence—2d That the court erred in permitting illegal evidence
                        to go to the Jury—3d That the damages are excessive, which was
                        granted and after the parties were fully heard the court was divided in
                        opinion, the president Judge in favour of a new trial and the associate
                        opposed. It was considered that the rule be discharged and a new trial
                        refused, to which opinion and judgment of the court the deft. by his council
                        exepted. Upon the exception being taken the plantiffs by their council
                        proposed a compermise and offered that if the defendant would pay the cost
                        that they would pursue the suit no further. It was evident that Judge
                        Thompson and the plantiffs council was not willing to hazard this suit
                        before the supream court. It was also likely that Judge Thompson  considered he had permitted illegal evidence to
                        go to the jury by his being willing to grant a new trial.
                    In this suit Judge Parr was off of the bench.
                    March term 1836
                    State of Indiana vs. Joiner cauble & Shull
                    on a Scire facias upon forfeited recognizance
                    A Scire facias upon a forfeited recognizance should set
                        forth a good caus of action—In this it appeared cauble and Shull
                        stood of the appearance of Joiner on an indictment for begamy who failed and
                        the defendants Cauble and Shull demured to the Scire
                        facias because it did not set fourth the particulars of all the
                        transactions together with the proper proceedings of the Sheriff and the Scire facias's was dismiss.
                    
                  
                            Harrison
                         Bridges Vs. Shields Overman & Shields
                    Covenant Broken
                    This was an action brought by the plantiff against the defendant for the
                        delivery of 2000 pound of bacon a Louisvill against the 5th of March at
                        $4.50 per hundred for which he claimed $200 which
                        bacon was not delivered. The declaration contained only one genral count and
                        when testamony was introduced to prove the price of bacon when it should
                        have been deliver. Kingsbury the council objects to any proof being
                        introduced to proove any thing on that because special damages was not laid
                        in the declaration. The objection overruled and proof was admitted that
                        bacon was $6. per hundred. Judgment for the plantiff.
                        $30.00 with cost.
                    Thomas Fenny vs. Hiram & Oliver Pollock
                    appeal covenant broken
                    This was an action founded on writen contract for corn oats hogs &
                        four months work for which Pollocks was to pay Fenny $50.00. It
                        was proven the corn, oats, and part of the hogs had been delivered that
                        after part of the work had been done they then fell out about a plow line
                        and Pollock said he wanded no more to do with Fenny upon this Fenny quit
                        work∗ but afterwards offered to do the work within the time if
                        Pollocks would admit of a substitute's working also which was
                        refused. There was evidance that Hiram Pollock said that Oliver Pollock a co
                        partner said he did drive Fenny off in order to get his work for nothing.
                        There was evidence that Pollock said he did owe him and that he was willing
                        to pay him. It was admited that Fenny might have recovered on assumpsit.
                    In the act of February 1835 page 52 it is anacted that in all suits 
                     
                        ∗ Fenny said he had as leave be in
                                hell as work there.
                  
                         before a justice of the peace a mistake
                        in the form of action shall be no cause of non-suit Provided &c.
                        Upon this the associate Judges gave judgment for $20.00 the
                        president Judge decented.
                    March term 1836
                    State Indiana vs. Adam McHollon
                    This was an assault and battery committed upon the body of John Wilson at a
                        camp meeting on sunday evening. It was 'in evidence that McHollon
                        had been appointed as a guard by the owner of the land whereon the meeting
                        was held and by one or more of the preachers to keep good order for the
                        evening at the meeting. It was proven that Wilson was standing on a bench
                        listning to preaching near the outside of the congregation on the
                        women's side. That McHollon come to and requested him to go off the
                        bench Wilson refused to go Mc said he was auth-erized as a guard to make him
                        go Wilson said he had stood there long enough to be guard over that bench Mc
                        then jurked him down of the bench and calld for help and pulled him along
                        about a rood still on the womens side until they ware parted by the
                        bystanders.
                    The instructions of the court ware that a orderly congregation of worshipers
                        had a lawful right to remove any disorderly person out of the congregation
                        provided there was no more force used than was necessary for that purpose.
                        If in remooving the disturbing purson a battery should ensue of necessaty it
                        would be excusable the disturbing purson should have went a way or been
                        orderly. But he must be a disturber in contemplation of law.
                    The jury found the defendant guilty and assessed a fine against him of one
                        cent and cost.
                    March term 1836
                    State of Indiana vs. Jacob Corn
                    indictment for murder committed upon the body of Isaac Johnson both men of
                        couler.
                    The testimony on this trial was in substance as follows: The said Isaac
                        Johnson came to the house on the evening of the 26th of March and asked his
                        wife Lusinda why supper was not ready angryly to which she answered, she
                        would have it in a few minutes, he said why was it not ready then, he said
                        is was not worth while to mad, he said is was enough to make him mad. And so
                        they quarreled—he told her to hush—she said she would
                        not hush he would slap her jaws—she said slap away I will not
                        hush, so they both clinched hold of each other and tustled round and while
                        they ware thus scuffleing Jacob Corn struck Isaac on the crown of the head
                        with an axe and ran away. But on the next day he come in and confessed that
                        he struck the blow which inflicted a wound about 2 1/2 inches long and 1 1/2
                        deep reaching through the scull bone and as far as the brain of which wound
                        said Isaac died in about one week.
                    
                    After the pleadings ware through the council for Corn requested the court to
                        give the following instructions which was accordingly given with some small
                        addition.
                    1st That the nearer or more remote connexion existing between one of two
                        persons engaged in combat, and a third person interfering to prevent the
                        commission of a felony is a matter to be considered by the jury, as to the
                        probable force of the provocation which occasioned the first assault.
                    2d That even a servant is justified in taking the life of an assailant when
                        interposing to prevent the commission of felony.
                    3d That it is not necessary to put the life of an assailed party in danger to
                        justify him in takeing the life of the assailant.
                    Court
                    But it would be necessary on the part of the assailed person to prove that he
                        had declined all combat, or all farther combat —that he had
                        retreated (if he could retreat) as before the mortal blow was struck as far
                        as he could with safety to himelf—or that he had refrained
                        striking the mortal blow as long as he could with safety to himself.
                    4th That when an assailed party is put in great bodily danger (of which he
                        himself is to be the judge from the circumstance of the assault) he is
                        justified in taking the life of the assailant.
                    The court would say that it would be incumbant on the assailed person to
                        prove that he was thus put in danger and that he had refrained to strike the
                        mortal blow as long as he could with safety to himself.—
                    5th That if the jury find that Lucinda Johnson was in great bodily danger
                        Jacob Corn was justified in takeing the life of Isaac Johnson and they must
                        find him not guilty.
                    The court will say that if from the violence of the attack there apeared no
                        other way to prevent the commission of a felony Corn was justifiable in
                        killing of 
                            Johnson
                         But it seemeth to be that the jury did not find Lucinda Johnson
                        in great bodily danger nor much danger of a felony being committed for they
                        found Corn guilty of manslaughter and sentanced him 5 1/2 years to the
                        penetenciary.
                    March term 1836
                    State of Indiana vs. George Kepley
                    For the murder of Daniel Wood
                    It was in evidence that Daniel Wood came to the house of Kepley on the
                        evening of the 26th of March 1836 about half an hour by sun and stayed all
                        night. That they sent for brandy and drank till between 2 & 3
                        o'clock—that during the night Wood joked Polly Kepley
                        and requested her to set in his lap she said she did not set on old mens lap
                        Keply said he did not bring up his children that way Wood said that  was right. That when about going to bed
                        Kepley said let me help you pull off your boots Wood said let me pull out
                        your eyes. In the morning they both went to the barn to catch Woods horse
                        and there they ware heard quarreling they then come to the house and hiched
                        the horse to a cherry tree and came in the house and both took a
                        dram—talked awhile and both took another dram About this time
                        Wood tryed to get the bottle from Keply—Kepley did not give it up
                        Wood said he was ready to fight and went out of the house taking off his
                        over coat and laid it on a log Kepley took down his gun and went out told
                        Wood to stand off—dont come nigh me and talked loud Wood said
                        some thing not understood. Wood went towards Kepley. Keply ordered Wood to
                        go away he did not' want him to stay any longer—Kepley
                        went back to a log sled and stood still Wood staggered some Keply then
                        pointed his gun at him and witness did not see him fire but when the gun
                        fired witness looked that way and saw Wood clap his hand on his breast and
                        walk off and set down on a rail and then fell down across the rail and died
                        Polly Kepley (who was the witness) went to where Mr. Hughs was pulling corn
                        a short distance off and told him what had happened Hughs went to Kepleys
                        and found Wood lying across a rail dead with a bullet hole in his left brest
                        Wood was an older and less man than Keply other men soon come and Wood was
                        examined and there was found in his panteloons pocket two apples one
                        buisquit some tobackcao a pocked book, and a knife below all. There was no
                        doubt in the persons presat that Wood come to his death by the bullet
                        discharged from Keplys gun.
                    When the indightment was about to be read to Kepley the council mooved the
                        court to quash the indightnient because the presiding judge was not on the
                        bench when the grand Jury was empaneled.
                    The motion was overruled and the trial progressed. There was about 60 men
                        summoned out of which to pick a jury and after much labour was chosen to wit
                        Joel Wilson Stephen Kendal, George Beck, James B. Huston, Josiah F perrin
                        David Patten, Moses M'Lelland, Christopher M'Lelland,
                        Henry C. Monroe, Wm. Mitchel, Josep H. Hungate, Hiram Haza
                    Who after hearing the testamony received the following charge, viz Homicide
                        or the killing of one reasonable creature by an other is either Justifiable
                        when it is done from unavoidable necessaty, or for the advancement of public
                        Justic, or for the prevention of some atrocious crime, such as the execution
                        of a crimnal convict, and the killing of a person who attempts to rob murder
                        or to commit other attrocious felony upon the person or property of another.
                    Excusable, when it happens by misadventure or in self defence.
                    By misadventure when in doing a lawful act a person by accident kills another
                        having used proper precaution to prevent danger. In self defence commonly so
                        called, when upon a sudden affray death ensues from necessaty.
                    
                    But the necessaty is in some measure founded upon the fault of the slayer or
                        party who urges it in his defence (or excuse).
                    It is felonious in legal contemplation when it amounts to man slaughter, or
                        murder.
                    Manslaughter is the unlawful killing of an other without malice either
                        express or implied, and it may be either volentary, as upon a sudden heat of
                        passion, or involentary as when it happens by accident in doing acts which
                        are either unlawful in themselves, or are attended with want of due care and
                        circumspection to prevent mischief.
                    When death happens upon a combat in a sudden quarril without malice prepence
                        or aforethought such killing amounts to volentary manslaughter being
                        attributed to heat of blood arising from human infirmity. And in order to
                        reduce such killing or homicide from manslaughter to excusable self defence
                        it is incumbant on the person killing to prove two things. 1st That before
                        he gave the mortal blow he had declined any further combat and had retreated
                        (if he could retreat) as far as he could with safety. 2d That he then killed
                        his adversary through mear necessaty in order to avoid immediate death or
                        great bodily harm. In these two circumstances concists the true criterian
                        between manslaughter and excusable homicide.
                    Murder—a crime at which nature shudders. Consists in the unlawful
                        killing of another with malice afore thought. It is the malice that
                        distinguishes this crime from every other kind of homicide this malice may
                        be either express or implied from circumstances.
                    Malice in legal intendment is not confined to that depraved and deliberate
                        determination, where the mind has brooded over its victim and marked out its
                        vingance, in cool blood or with wicked cuning. But the true legal
                        distinction of malice extends to all cases of homicide parpetrated under
                        such circumstances of wanton cruelty and implacable revenge as evidently to
                        flow from a wicked malignant and abandoned heart. A heart reguardless of
                        social duty and fully bent upon mischief. If therefore upon a suddon
                        provocation of a Slight nature one beat another in a cruel and unusual
                        manner so that he die though he did not intend to kill him, it is murder by
                        express malice. So if upon a provocation, or a slight provocation a person
                        inflicts with a dangerous weapin a punishment utterly dispropertioned to the
                        offence, if death ensue it is murder Much more will it be murder if upon
                        such a sudden slight provocation a man fires a loaded gun at another with
                        intention to kill and actually accomplishes his purpose.
                    The true consideration in all cases is whether the party has at the moment of
                        the death (I should say at the moment of inflicting the mortal blow) acted
                        under the impulse of passion excited by imediate injurys of a serious nature
                        or has given himself up to a blind & cruel revenge reguardless of
                        consequences, and bent only on the accomplishment of his own malignant
                        purposes.
                    
                    The cause under consideration is not only to you, but to this court, the
                        country, and the prisoner at the bar, truly a delicate and important one.
                    It is the cause of state against Gorge Kepley for the wilful and malicious
                        murder of Daniel Wood of which offence if he is guilty he has forfeited his
                        life to the violated laws of his country and must pay the
                        forfeitur—dreadful as the consequences may be to him—
                    However concious—presumption ought to be in proportion to the
                        enormity of the crime—that the crime was not
                        committed.—
                    Whenever the killing is proved the law presumes it was done maliciously
                        untill the contrary appears. And of course all circumstances relied on in
                        justification, excuse, or mitigation are to be satisfactorily proved by the
                        prisoner, unless it is proved by the evidence for the State or in some other
                        way.
                    Every man is presumed to be of sound discretion unless the contrary appear by
                        proof or otherwise such proof may be made.
                    Intoxication is no excuse for this offence but it is rather an agra-vation
                        thereof if any thing.
                    Lastly—You will weigh all circumstances connected with this case
                        with care and tenderness towards the accused.
                    You will allow every reasonable doubt in his favour, but a blind and
                        visionary incredulity which refuses to be satisfied without the best
                        possible proof of the most minute parts (this) you will not indulge.
                    The Jury then retired and in about two hours brought a verdict of guilty of
                            Murder against the said George Keply who received the
                        sentance of death to be inflicted upon him on the 17th of June. But said
                        Kepley hung him self in the jail a few days afterwards.
                    There was a motion for a new trial but over ruled. And an appeal to the
                        supream court was taken.
                    March Term 1837
                    State of Indiana vs. William Collins
                    For the murder of Abner Pitts
                    The evidence in this case was in substance as follows as gathered from all
                        the witnesses.
                    On the 12th of December 1836 Collins met with Aaron Cox near Booths corner in 
                            Salem
                         and began to abuse him (Cox having owed him for money for beef)
                        Pitts said he believed Col was a liar and took part with Cox Collins said
                        Pitts I want nothing to do with you and went to Gilwicks, Pitts then went to
                        Wades with 
                            Elwood
                         Trublood and was siting there, Collins come in and again began
                        to abuse Cox, Pitts said you must not say so of Cox me and Cox are in
                        partnership and I will have that money drawn out of you—Collins
                        still abused Cox Pitts said God damn you must not talk so of Cox or I will
                        nock you to where Collinses are ninety dollars a thousand—Col
                        said if I had you where I had as many friends as you I would give you what
                        you have long deserved—  Wade
                        then interfered and bade them silence or leave the house and Collins then
                        went away—These two altercations ware in the evening and the
                        witnesses ware not aprehensive of any mischief believing Pitts to be in fun,
                        but all agreed that both ware some what intoxicated. Collins then went out
                        and met with McClain and invited him to go to Arnalds and on the way nothing
                        was said about P—at Arnalds Collins called for a glass of whiskey
                        McClain took one drink and Collins drank the ballance—Pitts and
                        Trublood also left Waden and went to Arnalds and on the way there was
                        nothing said about Gllins. Pitts went in and sat before the fire and began
                        to talk with Mrs. Arnald who was siting on the right hand side of the
                        fire—McClain sat more to the left and Collins stood farther to
                        the left Pitts then got up and walked out from the fire passing between
                        McClain and Collins laying his hand on Collinses arm, Collins then gave back
                        to let Pitts pass and his feet in giveing back stoped against some fire wood
                        that was piled up and he fell —with his feet on the wood and come
                        nearly to the floor. Collins rose and caut up a bilit of wood and said Pitts
                        God damn you don't you come near me. Pitts was going on towards the
                        counter and appeared not to hear Collins. Mrs. Arnald bade CoFins to put
                        down the wood and he done so. Pitts then come and stood before the fire and
                        the first any of witnesses saw was Pitts runing forward stooping and
                        laughing with Collins strikeing of him Pitts then said what are you striking
                        me for—I have nothing against you and continued
                        laughing—Arnald then interfered Collins said God damn you what
                        did you strike me for. Trublood said he had struck with a
                        knife—Collins denied he had a knife Trublood said he saw him
                        strike with a knife and that he had put it in his right hand pocket Collins
                        was examined and asked what he had in his pocked and he said tobacco. The
                        knife was then drawn from Collins right hand pocket and on opening of the
                        knife it was found bloody up to the handle and on examining Pitts it was
                        discovered that he had received two wounds in the body one in the middle of
                        the brest just above the pit and ranging towards the left side Pitts
                        continued to laugh and said he did not know what Collins struck him for
                        Collins said he had been imposing on him. In about five minutes Pitts
                        fainted and Dr. Bradly was called in who examined the wound and was of the
                        opinion that it had not entered the cavity of the chest tho about four
                        inches deep. Pitts walked about 2 or 3 hundred yards to his brother
                        Levi's where he was tended by Drs Bradly and Newland for about
                        eighteen days till his death in which time he suffered great pain and
                        difficulty of breathing often trying to vomit and was carefully nursed by
                        his two brothers Thomas and Levi.
                    On the trial the Drs said they could not say certainly that the wound was the
                        cause of the death not having opened the body after death but was of opinion
                        that it was the exciteing cause and perhaps the actual cause.
                    The Drs also stated that they did not concider it safe at any time to moov
                        Pitts to his fathers which was only a quarter of a mile or so—
                             Great exersion was made by the
                        council to make it appear that Pitts did not die of those wounds.
                    This Testamony was submited to a Jury composed of Henry Davis, George
                        Motsinger Amos Ross Joseph Spurgin Henry Green James Lee Absolem Clark James
                        M'Coskey Robert Tilford Davoll Keller John Huston Sam More who
                        after hearing all the pladings received the following charge with some
                        preface.
                    Homicide or the killing of a human creature is of three kinds. Justifiable,
                        excusable, and felonious. The first has no share of guilt at all; the second
                        very little; But the third is the highest crime against the law of nature.
                    The crime charged against the prisioner at the bar is the murder of Abner
                        Pitts.
                    Manslaughter is a sudden unlawful killing without those circumstances of
                        malice cruelty or revenge &c involved in the tacnical word malice.
                    Anger a short madness when provoked by a reasonable cause excuses from the
                        punishment of murder and reduces the killing to manslaughter.
                    You will not presume that a killing has taken place unless it be proven that
                        it did take place by the act of the deft. or prisner at the bar.
                    But if a killing has been proved you must presume it was malicious or with
                        malice, for the law presumes it, unless the Def't has shewn, or it
                        has been proved by the prosecution that he commited the act in a passion
                        reasonable provoked, For whether it was done in passion or from provocation
                        the prisner must shew, Unless it appear from proof on the part of the state
                        they are never presumed; but malice the contrary of them is presumed.
                    And if a killing be proven upon the prisioner, and it be not proven that it
                        was done in passion reasonable provoked malice will be presumed, not any
                        particular fact or circumstance of malice but malice in general. Nor is this
                        presuming against inocence; For the killing being proved, a thing wicked in
                        itself, it becomes necessary for the killer to shew a justification or
                        excuse for it. Man is presumed to be a free agent and if he do an act evil
                        in itself it will be presumed to arise from an evil intention untill the
                        contrary appear; for a man must be presumed to intend what he accomplishes.
                    To exclude the presumption of malice and of courbe to reduce the killing
                        below the degree of murder, on the ground of passion. There must be both
                        passion and provocation. Passion without provocation or provocation without
                        passion is not sufficient. There must not only be both passion and
                        provocation but the provocation must be sufficient.
                    For it is not to be supposed that a reasonable man will, without reasonable
                        provocation suffer himself to be so far transported by passion as to take
                        away life. And it would be difficult to distinguish between  real passion, and passion affected, if the law
                        indulged passion without reasonable provocation.
                    Deliberate killing with out passion whatever may have been the provocation is
                        murder. For if the killer was kool and master of his passion and had the
                        full exercise of his Judgment, the principle of responsibility, he must
                        suffer the full effect of his conduct.
                    What is reasonable, or sufficient provocation is a fixed question of law not
                        variable according to the degree of judgment or irritability of the killer. This would be two precarious a standard to
                        appeal to and therefore the law proceeds on the shure ground of established
                        rules.
                    The law must operate by certain rules and not the casual feeling of Jurors;
                        and Jurors should Judge of the facts according to the certain rules of law.
                        For if our lives depend not on fixed rules but on the feelings which might
                        happen to be excited in the Jorors who ware to try us.—If in the
                        case of one man compassion should pervert the construction of the law to
                        acquit in the case of another resentment might pervert it to condemn. And if
                        guilt could thus escape punishment inocence might be no longer a shield.
                    Gentlemen we conceive it to be our duty in this case from what has taken
                        place in argument to tell you. That there is no argument less proper, or
                        more dangerous, or to which Jurors ought to listen with greater suspion and
                        aversion; than that which aims to confound the authority of the court and
                        Jury, instilling into the Jury a prejudice against the opinion of the court,
                        perswadeing the Jurors that they are at liberty to apply to facts a rule of
                        their own different from what the court may inform you the law applies. The
                        court and Jury are mutually dependant upon each other, The court on the Jury
                        for the facts, and the Jury on the court for the law. Whether facts are so
                        or so lies with the Jury to determine according as they may believe the
                        testimony. The facts whether they amount to murder manslawter or excuseable
                        homiside is a question of law for the determination of the court. It is your
                        duty gentlemen to find the facts according as you believe or disbelieve the
                        testamony and compare the facts with law as given you by the court whether
                        the prisoner is guilty as charged or of a less offence or any offence at
                        all. But you cannot without a violation of duty believing the facts say that
                        they are not what the law declares them to be
                    For such a course would be taking upon yourselves to make the law which is
                        the province of the Legislature.
                    An attack, though slight on the person of another or his bed from the high
                        value which the law sets upon those objects is sufficient provocation to
                        extinuate a suden killing in the heat of passion, and reduce it to
                        manslaughter.
                    If a master provoked by negligence or improper conduct of a servant; or of
                        one man provoked by a continuation of reproachful words or gestures proceeds
                        to chestise the offendor with a weapen and in a manner proper for
                        chestisement and not likely to kill and an accidental  killing is the conciquence, the provocation is
                        sufficient to reduce the killing to manslaughter.
                    But farther than this the law does not excuse for if on any light provocation
                        of words or Jestures of contumely, or insult, the passion of the insulted
                        person shew itself in circumstances of unusual cruelty beyond the just
                        measure of correction; and revenge itself with a weapen or in a maner likely
                        to kill, and do kill, it is murder.
                    After receiving the above charg the retired and in about two hours brought in
                        a virdict of not guilty of murder but guilty of manslaughter and a centance
                        of ten year imprisonment in the States prison.
                    March Term 1837
                    Samuel Wert vs. Thomas Hamelton
                    On an award
                    There was a contract between Wert and Hamelton for Hamelton to burn a
                        quantity of brick sufficient for the building of a large house Each one had
                        certain stipulations in the contract to perform and the matters in controver
                        ware submitted to refferees who made an award that Hamelton should pay Wert
                        $275. Upon this award suit was brought and after giving Hamelton
                        the necessary notices A rule was taken in the Jackson circuit court to shew
                        cause why the award should not be made the Judgment of the
                        court—As a shew cause—Hamelton put in a special plea
                        that the award was obtained by mistake in the refferees and on this point
                        Judge Ross refused on some account to hear evidence to which an exception
                        was (as error) was taken to the supreme court—To the plea put in
                        by Hamelton there was a reply by Wert and to the reply there was a demurrer
                        by Hamelton that the reply was not sufficient as it did not cover the whole
                        ground and go back to the mistakes & errors made in obtaining the
                        rule. before the rule was granted to this demurrer there was a joinder in
                        demurrer that the reply was sufficient.
                    Hamelton by his council pleaded that among other things the proper measures
                        was not taken to obtain the rule. Wert's council plead that the
                        rule was properly obtained.
                    The court was of opinion that if no special pladings was necessary the reply
                        was sufficient that it was not the business of this court to inquire how the
                        rule was obtained—Ross was then on the bench. And after hearing
                        the plea, the reply the demurrer to the reply and the joinder in demurror
                        the law was found on the side of the plantiff Wert and the rule
                            made absolute and the award made the judgment of the court.
                    The supreme court made a lengthy repor and among other things said
                        "The rule to shew cause in this case like a rule to shew cause why
                        a new trial should not be granted, or a judgment arrested requires nu
                        special pleading. It is enough for us to know that the defendant offered to
                        prove in oposition to the rule that the arbytrators had mistaken  the merrits of the controvercy and that the
                        circuit court refused to hear the evidence." In as much as this
                        suit had been taken to the supreme court on account of the Jackson circuit
                        court refusing to hear the tes-tamony on the plea that the award was
                        obtained by fraud or error. It was expected that when the court decided that
                        the reply was sufficient that Hamelton would have continued his cause and
                        then on an other trial attempted to prove that the award was erroniously
                        obtained. But he thought proper to let demurrer stand with the intention to
                        take he case to Supream court again and obtain a reversal of the judgment on
                        the ground that the rule was erroniously obtained.
                    On this trial Judge Thompson was off the bench—being formerly
                        council for Hamelton.
                    March Term 1838
                    Wm. Gentle vs. George Goldsby
                    It was admited that Gentle entered bailfor Goldsby and had to pay something
                        like $350.00 which at sheriffs sail took a planta, tion worth
                        $950.00. Andrew Housh swore that Goldsby come to his house he
                        being a J. P. and said him and Gentle had settled that he was to pay in land
                        and made an assignment on a land certificate on which Goldsby lived and took
                        the certificate away with him. some time after Goldsby and Gentle come to
                        Houshes and Goldsby assigned another land certificate to Gentle on which he
                        had paid $30.00 and Housh wrote a full receipt and Gentle signed
                        it Goldsby then said he had left the first land certificate at home and
                        Gentle gave him the receipt upon the promise that he would hand him the land
                        sertificate first signed on their way home. Goldsby afterwards told Housh
                        that he did not give the certificate to Gentle and
                    It has been frequently decided that an acknowlement of a debt barred by the
                        statute of limitations takes the case out of that statute and revives the
                        origional cause of action. So far as decisions have gone on this point
                        principles may be considered as settled and the court will not lightly
                        unsettle them. But they have gone full as far as they ought to be carried
                        and this court is not inclind to extend them. (The statute of limitations is
                        intitled to the same respect with other statutes and ought not to be
                        explained away).
                    "In this case there is no promise condition or unconditional but
                        simple acknowledgment. This acknowledgment goes to the origional justice of
                        the account, but this is not enough. The statute of limitations was not
                        enacted to protect persons from claims fictitious in their origion but
                        ancient claims whether well or ill founded which may have been discharged
                        but the evidence charge may be lost. It is not then sufficient to take the
                        case out of the act, that the claim should be proved, or be acknowledged to
                        have been origonally just, the acknowledgement must go to the fact that it
                        is still due."
                    Judge Thompson rather urged that there must be an express promise to pay.
                    
                    In this last suit Housh only stated—"He might have had his money
                        long ago if &c."
                    The associate Juges was of the opinion that if the acknowledgement went to
                        the fact that it was still due & that was sufficient to take the
                        case out of the statute; and on ground refused to grand a new trial and an
                        appeal was taken to the Supreme court If Jemima Bowen had been sworn she
                        would stated that she heard Goldsby say he had paid Gentle some for land and
                        he intended to pay more but he would not do so for that was too much within
                        5 year
                    James Mitchel vs. Thomas R. Redin
                    A Amsden—and others
                    On a bond
                    In this bond there was five names but at the bottom of the bond there was but
                        three of the above names and two other names not in the bond assigned and to
                    September Term 1838
                    Andrew Housh vs. Ira Standfield
                    Slander
                    The charge was for having sworn to a lie on a trial between A Roush sr and
                        Standfield. The defent. pleaded Justification which laid the burden of proof
                        upon him and for that purpose the transcript of the J. P. was offered who
                        administered the oath and was rejected because it was not properly certifyed
                            a full and compeat transcript.
                    Papers and transcripts must be certfied compleat from J. P. or courts
                    [Caption not given]
                    ware good and the trial progressed.
                    —one of the matters in controvercy before the arbitrators was for
                        the rent of a pasture the property of Levi Wright in which the cattle of
                        Michael Muse run and the price of the said pasture was in controvercy before
                        the said arvitrators when Anthony Hinkle was sworn by Henry Davis Esq who
                        was preasant and swore the witnesses who was examined by the arbitrators and
                        on this testamony given by Hincle as to the goodness of
                        the pasture Wright said Hincle swore to a lie. Meed swore in court that
                        Hincle swore before the arbitrators that there was so many briers in the
                        pasture that a cat could not run through (then recalled and said) the briers
                        ware so think that my dogs can not get a rabbit out of them Hincle said to
                        them there is the pasture you had better go see it (Meed thinks) and then
                        Hinkle and many of the company went and looked at the pasture Weller and
                        Pain was also sworn but varied but little in their testimony Sansford
                        Hardman swore that Hinkle swore that a cat could not run through and paused
                        and said at rates my dogs cannot run a rabbit out Josiah Spurgen swore that
                             Hincle said that a cat could not
                        run through I have two as good dogs as in the neighbourhood and they cannot
                        run a rabbit out—saw the breirs they had been grubbed off.
                    Philbert Wright swore that Hincle said that a cat could not get through nor a
                        rabbit could not get through nor my dogs cannot get a rabbit out of them
                        meaning as to thickness of the briers in the pasture and that he went
                        afterwards and saw the pasture and there was tolerable thick briers in
                        places but not so but what a cat or a dog could run through—there
                        was much evidence
                    There was four lawyers spoke on this suit on each side and the whole trial
                        took up in all some thing like six day of the court and when the Jury
                        returned into court brought a verdict in Hincles favour for the sum of
                        $5.00 and there was no motion further what ever.
                    Griffith vs. Patison
                    on assumpsit
                    This was a suit brought by the against the defendant for services rendered as
                        a lawyer in a great many suits. A bill of perticulars set forth the items,
                        some of which was of long standing. The deft. had an account of keeping a
                        horse 11 weeks. The deft. peaded payment—The statute of
                        limitations and the general issue. An attempt was made to prove that some of
                        the services was rendered to defendants and was not chargable to the
                        defendant. And part of the service to a son and daughter and son which was
                        minors all of which the plantiff tried to prove the defendant employed him
                        to do.
                    The court instricted the jury that as there was accounts runing on both sides
                        and part run into the five years next preceeding the commencement of the
                        suit. That those accounts runing into the five years would draw all those of
                        longer standing after them. That in every item where it was proved that the
                        plantiff (defendant) was in the defendants empoyment no matter whos suit
                        they must find for the plantiff the amount of the item as proved. That the
                        date of the items in the bill of perticulars was not Sufficient to fix the
                        time if not proved by a witness, the Jury found for the plantiff a new trial
                        was refused and excep taken—See Blackfords R page 373
                
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
