
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 16, Issue 2, pages 101-172. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:16+issue:2+year:1920&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Christopher Harrison
            MARTHA TUCKER MORRIS, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
            When the adventurers of the east had settled into well organized homes and cities, the pioneer began
                    to wander to the middle west, and followers of Daniel 
                        Boone
                     and George Rogers Clark began to make the history of southern Indiana. Many men
                    breathing the spirit of nature and adventure came to the towns along the Ohio
                    river and pushing further inland the town of 
                        Salem
                     began to be a place of importance in the settlement of southern Indiana.
            It is the life of one of those early men of whom we write; a peculiar and striking figure with an air
                    of mystery surrounding him, even in the days when in Indiana, wild beasts and rough and ready fights
                    for the survival of the strongest, left little time for mystery.
            Christopher Harrison, from 1815 until 1835, perhaps something like twenty years, claimed 
                        Salem
                     and the vicinity as his home. It is fitting that a Salemite honor his memory by
                    reviewing the incidents of his life. The subject of this sketch was born in 
                  Cambridge, Dorchester county,
                            Maryland
               , in the year 1775. The family
                    came from 
                        England
                     about the middle of the eighteenth century. His father, Robert Harrison, lived and died
                    on a farm called "Appleby" in the suburbs of 
                        Cambridge
                    . His son Christopher received a liberal education, being a graduate of St.
                    John's College, 
                  Annapolis, Maryland
               , and receiving also a finishing
                    classical course in Europe. While studying to become a lawyer, he served as confidential clerk to
                    William Patterson, one of the wealthy merchants of 
                        Baltimore
                    , and is said to have been also a tutor of Elizabeth Patterson daughter of the merchant.
            
            Slavery was accepted in 
                        Maryland
                    , at this time, as part of the social life and Christopher Harrison inherited a number
                    of slaves. An unusual trait of character is shown by him, when he received this inheritance, as he
                    gave these slaves their freedom. Many versions of the romance, connected with the life of Harrison,
                    are given. It is the privilege of the writer to have the telling of this romance from a resident of 
                        Salem
                     in the early days, Dr. A. W. King, living in Redlands, 
                        California
                    . 
                        I distinctly remember Harrison, as I frequently passed his home-the old Isaac Chase
                            corner-sitting on his porch or under a tree, seemingly enjoying his quiet, solitary life. He
                            was genial and pleasant, but never gushing. You couldn't jolly him as you could
                            D. G. Campbell, Benoni Morris or Colonel Menaugh. He was more of the dignified sort as John
                            I. Morrison, Beebe Booth or John H. Butler. He was rated as a young man of fine social
                            qualities, but an unfortunate love affair, seemed to have revolutionized him in this and
                            made him a misanthrope. He had fallen desperately in love with Miss Elizabeth Patterson, a
                            dashing 
                                Baltimore
                             belle and beauty, and things went on swimmingly, till a sprig of royalty in the
                            person of Jerome Bonaparte, crossed their path. The love of a distinguished name, and the
                            prestige it might give her in society, caused Miss Patterson to turn down her humble lawyer
                            for the more brilliant prospect. Harrison was a changed man. He lost all faith in female
                            honesty and constancy and while he never forgot, when in their society, that he was a
                            gentleman, he was ever irresponsive to their attractions and blandishments and tabooed
                            society as much as possible.
                    
            
            Whether this romance was true, or only a romance, we may not know, but something unusual, must have
                    caused a man of his temperament, to leave the comforts of a 
                        Maryland
                     community, and seek the life of a pioneer. His name was found engraved on a tree, dated
                    July 8, 1808, and this is supposed to be the beginning of his life in the territory of Indiana. This
                    tree was near his cabin door, the cabin being built on a point called Fair Prospect, probably the
                    present site of 
                        Hanover
                     College, and giving a most beautiful view of the Ohio river from
                    the Indiana side.
            Maurice Thompson, in his Stories of Indiana, says, this cabin was a single room,
                    and that Christopher Harrison lived there for seven years, painting many pictures on the walls, and
                    living the life of a hermit. William W. Woollen in Historical Sketches of Indiana
                    tells us he built a kennel for his dogs, back of his cabin, jutting against its chimney of clay, and
                    supported  himself by hunting. He had a knowledge of several
                    languages, and his books formed a part of his life, wherever he went.
            However, even in these early days, a hermit began to have neighbors, and in 1809, John Paul was busy
                    establishing his family near the present site of 
                        Madison
                    , having purchased large tracts of land in this vicnity, at the public sale of land in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in 1808. 
                        Mr. Paul later named it (the town he founded), 
                                Madison
                            , and with the expanding purpose of making it the seat of justice of the newly
                            erected county, he admitted as partners in the project, two 
                                Cincinnati
                             pioneers, Lewis Davis and Jonathan Lyon in 1810, and in 1815 Jacob Burnet, also
                            of 
                                Cincinnati
                            ._ _ _ In 1811, John Paul and Jonathan Lyon
                            established the first ferry from 
                                Madison
                             to the 
                                Kentucky
                             shore opposite, at 
                                Milton
                            .1
                  
                    
            
            That Harrison must have met these pioneers and become interested in financial investments of the time
                    is shown from the following: 
                        The territorial legislature sitting in Corydon in 1814 chartered two banks. One of them to be
                            located at 
                                Vincennes
                             and the other at 
                                Madison
                            . John Paul, founder of 
                                Madison
                            , and a hero of the George Rogers Clark campaign, was behind the latter. The
                            capital stock of the 
                                Madison
                             bank was to be $750,000. The 
                                Madison
                             bank, called the Farmers and Mechanics was promptly organized by John Paul,
                            John Ritchie, Christopher Harrison, Henry Ristine, N. Hurst and D. Blackmore.2
                  
                    
            
            It may be that this association with the pioneers of 
                        Madison
                     explains his friendship for Jonathan Lyon, causing him in 1815 to sell his cabin to
                    George Logan and move to 
                        Salem
                     with Mr. Lyon. 
                        Salem
                     was at that time one of the most important towns in the territory of Indiana. They
                    brought with them a stock of merchandise and opened one of the first dry goods stores in the town of 
                        Salem
                    . Harrison built the first brick house in the town and improved upon his 
                        Hanover
                     cabin by building two rooms, one, however, barely large enough for a bed. The lot was
                    72 by 144 feet, northeast corner of the public square of today and now occupied by the beautiful 
                        Salem
                     State bank building and a large brick building, housing the post office of the town.
            Harrison in his new home added to his painting and books a garden of flowers and this with a few fine
                    old forest trees made his home the most beautiful in the town. He is said to 
                  
                     1
                            Indiana Magazine of History, June, 1917, "Colonel John
                            Paul".
                  
                     2 Esarey, History of Indiana, 234.
               
                     have been very generous with the boys and girls giving them
                    many bouquets of flowers from his garden, and pictures painted by his skillful hands. There is today
                    in 
                        Salem
                    , a small trinket box, painted by Christopher Harrison for little Mary Curry, who lived
                    near his home. A colored woman came each morning to care for his home, but older people were not
                    encouraged to visit and he lived almost the life of a recluse, as he had on the banks of the
                        Ohio river.
            The first labor in a public capacity, in 
                        Salem
                    , by Harrison was the making of three maps of the county, on a scale of one-half inch to
                    the mile, for which service he was allowed by the first board of commissioners, in 1817, the sum of
                    $15. He was also judge of the 
                        Washington county
                     court, for one term, which explains the title bestowed upon him.3
            
            It has been said he made a plat of the town also. The early public records of 
                        Washington county
                     show many deeds for lots, to Jonathan Lyon and Harrison, and to Harrison alone. Deed
                    Book B, page 63. Alexander Craig to Christopher Harrison and Jonathan Lyon. Lot 7, 
                        Salem
                    , March 18, 1818, probably the purchase of the store building. Deed Book A, page 259.
                    Alexander Craig to Christopher Harrison. Lot 11, 
                        Salem
                    , April 11, 1817, is the lot upon which he built his brick home. A very interesting
                    record from Deed Book F, page 129, shows that he still held that all men should be free. 
                        
                     
                        Salem, Washington
                                    County
                      and State of Indiana, October 6th, 1880. We certify,
                            that we have known the bearer hereof (a mulatto man, about twenty-four years old, five feet
                            nine inches high, in his stockings, some powder marks in his face, and a small scar on his
                            right arm) from the time he was a small boy, his name is Enoch Delano. The said Enoch
                            Delano, his mother and several small children have resided for many years in this place and
                            have always been considered as free, and as such have never been in any way molested or
                            disturbed. The said Enoch Delano has always conducted himself in a peaceable and orderly
                            manner and we hope and request that he may pass free and unmolested as a free man.
                        CHRISTOPHER HARRISON,
                        MICAH NEWBY,
                        JOSEPH GREEN,
                        JOHN CURRY.
                    
            
            
               
                  3 Stevens, History of 
                                Washington County
                            .
               
            
            
            Another interesting record, showing the confidence of the 
                        Salem
                     citizens, in his honesty, and upright character is as follows: Deed Book D, page 293.
                        
                        Whereas Isaac A. Dennis, about the 4th of April, 1826, left with Christopher Harrison, of 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana, for safe keeping, sundry bonds, notes and mortgages, belonging to
                            him, the said Dennis, amounting to about twenty-one or twenty-two hundred dollars, for which
                            the said Harrison gave to said Dennis, his receipt for the same and whereas the said Dennis
                            wishes to receive from said Harrison the papers as left in his care, but has left the said
                            receipt in the state of 
                                Rhode Island
                            , now be it known, that I, Isaac A. Dennis, have received and do now acknowledge
                            the receipts and writings and of all papers and writings left in his care, for safe keeping
                            and forever release the said Harrison from all claims for the same and for all claims and
                            demands whatever.
                        (Signed) ISAAC A. DENNIS.
                        In presence of John McMahan.
                    
            
            The best description of the personal appearance of Judge Harrison is found in Biographical and Historical Sketches by William W. Woollen. 
                        Governor Harrison was a well-built man, of medium height. While he lived in the cabin near
                            where 
                                Hanover
                             now is, he was erect in carriage, but later in life, he became bent or
                            stoop-shouldered. He had an oval face, light complexion and blue eyes, says one authority.
                            Another describes him the same, except that his eyes were gray. He was careful of his dress.
                            Usually he was clean shaved and in his person was always scrupulously clean. He was a
                            free-thinker, but he had great respect for the 
                                Quaker
                             church. After he returned to 
                                Maryland
                            , he frequently extolled the virtues of the Quakers he knew in Indiana. He was a
                            great student, being a voracious reader of books. Judge Banta has a couple of books, one of
                            them printed in Latin, which once belonged to the old pioneer. They contain notes and
                            emendations in his hand-writing and interspersed through them are beautiful pictures in
                            water colors, drawn by the deft hand of their owner.
                    
            
            When Judge Harrison had been a citizen of 
                        Salem
                     one year the territory of Indiana became a state, and he was elected first
                    lieutenant-governor in 1816, with Jonathan Jennings, as the first governor. The vote cast for
                    lieutenant-governor being 7,474, of which Harrison received 6,570.4
            
            The governor and lieutenant-governor were both against slavery in the new state and in many ways were
                    the right men for the highest office the people of Indiana could give in this first year of
                    statehood. It was very unfortunate that conditions  arose that
                    caused the lieutenant-governor to appear in a rather unfavorable light.
            President Monroe, in 1818, appointed Governor Jennings, General Cass, and Judge Benjamin Parke, a
                    resident of 
                        Salem
                    , to negotiate a treaty with the Indians. The constitution of Indiana prohibited the
                    governor of the state from holding any office under the 
                        United States
                    , but Governor Jennings, disregarding this, accepted the appointment and wrote to the
                    lieutenant-governor at 
                        Salem
                    .5
                    
                        Understanding some official business is necessary to be transacted, permit me to inform you
                            that my absence is still necessary and that it may be necessary for you to attend the seat
                            of government to discharge such duties as devolve on the executive of Indiana.
                            Lieutenant-Governor Harrison thereupon went to Corydon, took possession of the executive
                            office, and performed the duties of governor until Jennings return from St. Mary.
                    
            
            Lieutenant Governor Harrison, we think, very honestly thought that Governor Jennings had vacated the
                    office of governor by this act, and that he should be recognized as acting governor of the state.
                    Governor Jennings felt he was justified in his action by the good accomplished.6
                    
                        In the series of treaties, they succeeded in purchasing from the Indians claim to all the
                            lands in the central part of the state. This was a very important transaction for Indiana
                            and was sufficient excuse, in the opinion of the majority of the people, for the violation
                            of the clause in the constitution which forbids the governor of the state to hold any office
                            under the 
                                United States
                            . In order to insure success the contemplated proceedings were kept secret. The
                            negotiations were not protracted and the offense, whatever it may have been, was wholly
                            inadvertent on the part of the governor.
                    
            
            The matter was taken up by the legislature and Jennings recognized as governor. Harrison resigned,
                    sending to the house of representatives the following letter, dated Corydon, December 18, 1818:
                        
                        I have this day delivered to the Secretary of State, to be filed in his office, my
                            resignation of the office of Lieutenant-Governor of this State. As the officers of the
                            executive department of government and the General Assembly have refused to recognize and
                            acknowledge that authority which, according to my understanding, is constitutionally
                            attached to the office, the name itself, in my estimation, is not worth retaining.
                    
            
            
               
                  5 Esanel, History of Indiana, 225.
               
                  6 Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana.
               
            
            
            The following resolution was passed by the House: 
                        
                     Resolved, That the House of Representatives view the conduct and deportment
                            of Lieutenant-Governor Christopher Harrison as both dignified and correct, during the late
                            investigation of the differences existing in the executive department of this State.
                    
            
            In 1819, at the August election, Lieutenant-Governor Harrison was a candidate for governor, but was
                    defeated. He continued to serve the state in many important commissions and his influence for good
                    was in no way impaired by this experience, but before taking up these commissions, we should like to
                    go back to 1817, and the early days of Masonry in the territory of Indiana and tell of the service
                    of Harrison to 
                        Salem
                     and the future state of Indiana. Masonry seems to have been a very essential trait of
                    the character of the early settlers of Indiana, and as soon as possible lodges were organized and
                    meetings held in the cabins. It is to be regretted that the early records of 
                        Salem
                     were destroyed by fire and the account of the organization of the Grand Lodge of
                    Indiana, in which Christopher Harrison had a very strong influence, must be given from William
                    Woolen's Biographical and Historical Sketches, 494.7
                    
                        The first lodges were organized at 
                        Vincennes,
                                    Lawrenceburg, Vevay
                     , Rising Sun, 
                        Madison, Charlestown, Brookville, Salem
                      and Corydon. These lodges received their dispensations or
                            charters from 
                                Ohio
                             or 
                                Kentucky
                            . On the 3rd day of December, A. D. 1817, delegates from these various lodges
                            met at the old town of Corydon to make arrangements for organizing a Grand Lodge for the
                            Territory of Indiana._ _ _ But eleven Masons were present
                            at this meeting. They laid the foundation of the Grand Lodge and what has indeed become a
                            grand body in Indiana. They have all passed to the Grand Lodge above, but their names will
                            ever be commemorated as the founders of Masonry in Indiana. Some of them have children and
                            grandchildren now prominent members of the fraternity. The eleven were General W. Johnston,
                            S. C. Stevens, Abel C. Peper, Christopher Harrison, Henry P. Thornton, Joseph 
                                Bartholomew
                            , John Miller, Davis Floyd, Hezekiah B. Hull, James Dill and A.
                            Buckner._ _ _ In 1826 the Grand Lodge met at 
                                Salem
                            , a little town nestled among the hills of 
                                Washington County
                            . Thirty-two lodges were represented, covering a territory extending from the
                                Ohio River to the 
                                Wabash
                            . Then there was no railroad in the State and no public conveyance between the
                            towns where lodges were located. Some of the delegates rode more than a hundred miles on
                            horseback. We can see in imagination the sturdy yeomen assembled in a log cabin, the grand
                            old primeval forest about them, and the wolves for sentinels. Less than  four hundred Masons were then represented by all the lodges of
                            the State. The records show that the Grand Lodge met at Corydon in 1817, 1821, and 1822; at 
                                Madison
                             in 1818, 1819, 1823, and 1824; at 
                                Salem
                             in 1825, 1826, 1827, and 1832, at 
                                Vincennes
                             in 1831, and there was an adjourned meeting at 
                                Charlestown
                             in 1818.
                    
            
            
               
                        Salem
                     as shown had the meeting, three years in succession, and no doubt because of the
                    enthusiasm of the masons in the community, and this spirit we think, caused largely by the influence
                    of Christopher Harrison in the organization work of the state.
            The condition of roads for travel and the necessity of better ways of transacting the rapidly growing
                    interests of the state, brought about the question of building state roads, and in 1818, Christopher
                    Harrison was made the first agent of a state fund called the three per cent fund. This has been
                    explained very clearly in Esarey's History of Indiana. 242. 
                        One can scarcely realize the condition of travel in 1825. There was no railroad, no canal, no
                            pike. All the rivers except the 
                                Ohio
                             were obstructed by fallen trees, ripples and bars. Two main roads led to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , one from 
                                Madison
                            , the other from 
                                Centerville
                            . The transportation service, if any was to be had, was bad, roads frequently
                            impassable and stages usually late. Two schemes for carrying on internal traffic were early
                            taken up, by the Indiana government. The earliest was the building of state roads, with the
                            three per cent funds. Congress had set aside five per cent of the net proceeds of all the
                            lands sold in Indiana for road building. Three per cent of this was placed at the disposal
                            of the General Assembly, and was known as the three per cent fund. He (Harrison) received
                            the money from the 
                                United States
                             and paid it out, according to appropriation by the General Assembly, to the
                            county agent. The county agent used it in opening roads through the forest. Such roads,
                            known as state roads, were one hundred feet wide, but the money was not sufficient to do
                            more than clear them of timber.
                    
            
            During the time that Judge Harrison was agent for this land money, as it was called, Benoni Morris,
                    an early settler of 
                        Salem
                     and a 
                        Quaker
                     from 
                        North Carolina
                    , was commissioned by Harrison to transport a large sum of money from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Salem
                    . Morris traveled in a wagon, driven by two stout horses, camping out at night, and
                    delivered the money safely. The money was in boxes so much to the box, but he had no knowledge of
                    the amount entrusted to his care. The money was mostly gold and silver. Jeptha Morris, a boy  at the time, went with his father and the only guard they had
                    was two dogs, not even a gun to defend the costly load.
            The site of the capital of the state having been selected, the legislature appointed a commission,
                    January 6, 1821, to lay off the town. This commission was composed of Christopher Harrison, James
                    Jones and Samuel Booker, but when the time came, only Harrison appeared ready for work.8
                    
                        Of the Commissioners elected, Christopher Harrison was the only one to appear at the place on
                            the date fixed upon. Without delay he carried on alone the survey and the sale of lots, a
                            proceeding very properly legalized by an act of the Legislature in November, 1821. Judge
                            Harrison was one of the most interesting characters who ever reached Indiana. He came from 
                                Maryland
                            , was possessed of some wealth, had a fine education and a taste for
                            art._ _ _ Harrison selected Alexander Ralston and Elias
                            Fordham, as surveyors of the new Capital, and Benjamin I. Blythe as clerk to the
                            commissioners. Ralston was a Scotchman, a man of ability, who had been entrusted by Lord
                            Roslin with important engineering work, before coming to this country. He had assisted Major
                            L'Enfant, companion of 
                                Lafayette
                             in surveying 
                                Washington
                            , the national Capital. It is a well known fact that the design employed by
                            L'Enfant influenced Ralston in his survey of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , the scheme involving as it does a circle in the center, with radiating avenues
                            and streets, intersecting at right angles. Fordham the second surveyor, well educated and of
                            a discerning mind, was a member of an ancient family in the east of 
                                England
                            . He was a pupil of George Stephenson, inventor of the locomotive steam engine.
                            The association of the men concerned with the beginning of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , with those of the far away world, will bear repeating: Harrison with the
                            beautiful Miss Patterson and Jerome Bonaparte; Ralston with Lord Roslin, Aaron Burr,
                            L'Enfant, 
                                Lafayette
                            , and Fordham with George Stephenson.
                    
            
            It is interesting to remember also that the subject of this sketch was the one who chose the men so
                    well fitted to plan the capital city of our state. At the sale of the lots, in October, Harrison
                    purchased a number of lots, some of which he held until after he left the state.
            Maurice Thompson, in Stories of Indiana, tells of Christopher Harrison's
                    last public commission for the state. 
                        In 1824 Christopher Harrison and William Hendricks were appointed to locate a canal around
                            the falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             near 
                                Jeffersonville
                            . They made their report the following year and filed it on January 18, 1825.
                            _ _ _ Christopher Harrison's connection with the
                            canal scheme ended when he and Governor William Hendricks made their report. After that
                                
                        
                           8 Hodges, Early 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        .
                        
                     
                             he passed out of public life. He moved from 
                                Salem
                             to a farm a few miles in the country, where he again took up a lonely life of
                            study and outdoor recreation. He took great interest in growing fine watermelons, and here
                            again, he remembered the children of 
                                Salem
                            . He would cut the names of all the boys and girls he knew upon the rinds of as
                            many watermelons; then with his wagon loaded he would enter the town and proceed to
                            distribute his luscious gifts. You may be sure that he was beloved by the young people.
                    
            
            This farm has been difficult to locate, as Lieutenant-Governor Harrison owned several farms near 
                        Salem
                    . However it seems probable it was one recorded in Deed Book O, page 64, north of 
                        Salem
                     a few miles, and not sold until January 20, 1842, when he was a resident of
                            
                  Talbot county, Maryland
               . About 1834 or 1835, he left 
                        Salem
                     and Indiana and went back to 
                        Maryland
                     to live. The Deed Book H, page 192, shows he sold the little brick house in 
                        Salem
                    , January 10, 1834.
            After Governor Harrison returned to 
                        Maryland
                    , he lived among his relatives and friends. For many years he resided with his sister,
                    Mrs. Locherman, and spent his time, when not reading, in hunting and fishing in Chesapeake bay and
                    its estuaries. In letters he says he is "uncle" to all the young folks in the
                    neighborhood. Mr. Williams (a nephew by marriage) says: 
                        He was a student all his life, and his acquirements were various and extensive. He was not
                            satisfied with a superficial knowledge of anything, he went into matters thoroughly. He was
                            reticent, and it was difficult to get at what he knew or thought on any subject. He was the
                            soul of honor, and no man I ever knew had a more thorough contempt for a mean act. He was
                            generous to excess. He had no love for money or its accumulation. He had opportunities for
                            making a fortune, but he gave away as he made. From the simplicity of the man and his great
                            goodness I became greatly attached to him. He was the best informed man I ever met. At one
                            time he lived in my family for ten years, and I knew him thoroughly. He was an honest man
                            and died poor. He was a remarkable man and deserves a place in history.9
                  
                    
            
            And as we near the close of this interesting life, we have from Maurice Thompson a story that takes
                    us back to 
                        Salem
                     and gives us his idea of the Maker of the Universe. To a 
                        Quaker
                     exercised about the salvation of his soul, Harrison said, "God is love, and
                    love never loses anything; it is infinitely 
                  
                     9 Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                        Sketches.
                  
               
                     forgiving. My soul can not be lost", and Thompson
                    adds: "Perhaps the man was thinking of his own enduring love, by the light of which his
                    whole long life was spent." His life of 88 years ended peacefully at the home of Mr. H. C.
                    Tilghman in 
                  Talbot county, Maryland
               , in 1863.
            It is the privilege of the Daughters of the American Revolution in 
                        Salem
                     to honor the memory of this man and the influence of his life, for the good of the town
                    of 
                        Salem
                    , and the state of Indiana by naming their Chapter the Christopher Harrison Chapter, of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            The Temperance Movement In Indiana
            By CHARLES E. CANUP, De Pauw University. (Continued)
            THE RECONSTRUCTION PERIOD
            After 1875 most of the important work of reconstruction had been accomplished, so conditions became
                    much more satisfactory. Not only this; a steady growth of all institutions has been noted; the
                    educational system had developed; transportation facilities were increasing; and the churches were
                    becoming more efficient. In fact, conditions might be said to have been fairly prosperous, in spite
                    of some severe jolts that came in the form of panics and depressions. In population the state
                    increased from 1,668,000 in 1870 to 1,978,301 in 1880;1 it had grown enormously
                    in wealth, political prestige and social welfare and in the position it occupied with regard to
                    other states. In the meantime the Methodist church, still one of the foremost temperance forces, had
                    decreased from 113,800 in 1870 to a membership of 106,735 in 1880;2 yet, better
                    and more able men were at the head of the institution, and it had become a fairly wealthy
                    organization with property valued at more than three million dollars. Moreover the temperance
                    societies mentioned in previous chapters began to work in earnest, and new ones made their
                    appearance. The influence of these various organizations began to create a public sentiment in favor
                    of temperance. Extracts from the reports of a few of the conventions of these societies will suffice
                    to show what was being done by them at that time.
            Sometime during the year of 1870 the Indiana Temperance Alliance met with all of the districts of the
                    state represented but two. In the evening a mass meeting was held at which addresses were made by
                    the Rev. J. H. Clippenger, Methodist 
                  
                     1
                            Census Report for 1880.
                  
                     2 This does not include probationers and local preachers; these
                            numbered about 7,500.
               
                     minister; later Col. Ray was elected president for the coming
                    year and the following resolutions were adopted: 
                        
                     
                                Resolved: That we have renewed faith in the principles proclaimed in
                                our last annual meeting, that the experience of the last year has tended more and more
                                to confirm us in the belief that there is no human agency short of total abstinence
                                which can save our country from becoming a nation of drunkards; that it is the first
                                duty of the temperance men to discourage by precept and example the use of all kinds of
                                fermented as well as distilled liquors; that the young should be carefully educated to
                                abhor and wholly abstain from its use; and that our efforts should never cease for the
                                reformation of the drunkard.
                     
                                Resolved: That believing the time-honored maxim 'that
                                prevention is better than cure' applies with peculiar force to the cause of
                                temperance, we recommend as one of the most effectual means for spreading our
                                principles; that there be a more general and more thorough advocacy of them in the
                                Sabbath and common schools and the establishment of juvenile temperance organizations.
                     
                                Resolved: That in order to facilitate the above teaching there is a
                                demand for a primary text book on physiology which shall present more fully than any
                                primary work extant the nature of alcohol and its evil effects on the human system.
                     
                                Resolved: That R. T. Brown, who suggested such a book be requested to
                                complete it at the earliest practicable period.
                     
                                Resolved: That the success which has attended the efforts ofour
                                general agent during the past year confirm us in the conviction that if we expect our
                                cause to succeed we must maintain a continual agitation on the subject by an increase of
                                traveling agents and a more thorough distribution of temperance literature. We also
                                recommend that space be obtained in some respectable newspaper in each county throughout
                                the state for the purpose of advocating our cause and disseminating our principles.
                     
                                Resolved: That as woman has ever been the faithful supporter of every
                                movement for the elevation and advancement of mankind and believing that our efforts
                                cannot be successful without her influence we earnestly ask her co-operation in this
                                great work, especially among the young and the rising generation.
                     
                                Resolved: That while we have the highest respect for the ability and
                                character of the medical profession we cannot close our eyes to the sad fact that a
                                large amount of intemperance is generated by the indiscriminate prescription of
                                alcoholic liquors as medicine and believing that the advanced state of medical and
                                chemical science has recently demonstrated that many cases of disease for which alcohol
                                had been administered can more easily be cured without its use, and respectfully ask
                                that honored profession to give this important matter their earnest and conscientious
                                consideration.
                     
                                Resolved: That while we favor and will earnestly work for a law
                                prohibiting the traffic in intoxicating liquors we do hereby agree to  use the utmost endeavors to prevent the obtaining of
                                license under and bringing to punishment offenders of the existing law.
                     
                                Resolved: That we believe the principle of licensing the traffic in
                                intoxicating liquors is the principle of legalizing a wrong, is opposed to the
                                enlightened moral and religious ideal of the people of the country and should be scouted
                                by all lovers of temperance.
                     
                                Resolved: That Col. J. W. Ray, Sylvester Johnson, and D. R. Pershing
                                be appointed a committee to represent the alliance before the next legislature and use
                                their effort to secure the enactment of a prohibitory law.
                     
                                Resolved: That the Western Independence is the only
                                temperance paper in the state and we believe it our duty to encourage its circulation
                                throughout the state.
                     
                                Resolved: That we recommend the temperance people throughout the state
                                to hold meetings as suggested by the Congressional Temperance Society of 
                                    Washington
                                 during last February.3
                     
                  
                    
            
            In addition to these resolutions there were hundreds of others offered up by the same and other
                    organizations in the interest of better temperance education. Every year brought forth something new
                    in the line of temperance arguments.
            Early in the spring of 1874 another movement began at Chatauqua, 
                        Ohio
                    , that was destined to have far-reaching results. It sprang from the Woman's
                    Crusade of 1873. This small group of women finally met in 
                        Cleveland
                     late in the fall of the above year and the Woman's Christian Temperance
                    Union took form; it is sometimes known as the white ribbon movement. Its object was to unite the
                    efforts of Christian women for the extinction of intemperance. In their own words their purpose was
                    set forth as follows: 
                        
                     Resolved: That whereas the object of just government is to conserve the
                            best interests of the governed; and, whereas the liquor traffic is not only a crime against
                            God, but subversive of every interest of society; therefore, in behalf of humanity, we call
                            for such legislation as shall secure this end; and while we will continue to employ all
                            moral agencies as indispensable, we hold prohibition to be essential to the full triumph of
                            this reform.4
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  3
                        Western Christian Advocate, 1870, 41.
               
                  4
                        Origin of Woman's Temperance Crusade. Pamphlet of four pages. Cyclopedia of Temperance and Prohibition, 651. The celebration of the second
                        anniversary of the W. C. T. U. resulting from the crusade movement was held at
                        Philip's Hall, 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, February 23. Western Christian Advocate, 1876,
                    69.
            
            
            Sometime later at one of their conventions held in 
                        Chicago
                     during the year 1877 a pledge was adopted. It was as follows: 
                        I hereby solemnly promise, God helping me, to abstain from all distilled, fermented and malt
                            liquors, including wine, beer, and cider, and to employ all proper means to discourage the
                            use of the traffic in the same.5
                  
                    
            
            In addition to this each member was supposed to wear a white ribbon as a badge and have for their
                    motto "For God and Home and Native Land".6 Their numbers
                    increased rapidly and soon Indiana was pretty well organized. Practically all of the earnest members
                    of the various churches soon became affiliated with the movement. Particularly has this been true of
                    the Methodist church, because of their well known temperance principles.
            As a result of the W. C. T. U. work in other fields a great many of their local societies sprang
                    almost spontaneously into existence. In northern Indiana a Ladies Temperance convention composed of
                    over two hundred and fifty delegates from twenty-two counties met at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     during May of 1874, and passed the following resolutions: 
                        
                     Resolved: That while we depend on religion and moral sentiment making our
                            appeal to God and humanity, as the grand elements of power in advancing the cause of
                            temperance, we claim the protection of the law against pauperism and crime which results
                            from drunkenness and the help of the law in restraining and repressing the liquor traffic
                            which is the prolific cause of intemperance.
                        
                     Resolved: That the 'Baxter Law' (passed in 1873)
                            shall be maintained subject only to such modifications as experience may suggest to render
                            it more efficient.
                        
                     Resolved: That while we disclaim any purpose of entering the field of party
                            politics to help or hinder any party in its especial ends we shall demand of all parties the
                            election of sober men to office; and we declare our purpose to use all our influence,
                            religious, social, and political, in support of these men who are in favor of personal
                            sobriety and effective temperance legislation.7
                  
                    
            
            Two years later the third annual mass State Temperance convention was held at the Baptist church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . All temperance men and women of the state were invited to attend; all churches,
                    sabbath schools, Woman's Christian Temperance Unions, and all other temperance
                    organizations, juvenile 
                  
                     5
                            Cyclopedia of Temperance and Prohibition, 651. Also Report of W. C. T. U.
                            of Indiana containing Constitution any year.
                  
                     6
                            Cyclopedia of Temperance and Prohibition, 651.
                  
                     7
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1874, 173.
               
                     and young folks' Temperance Unions, and all Young
                    Men's Christian Associations. Reduced railway fare might be had from any part of the
                    state. Some of the prominent speakers were Frances E. Willard and William Baxter.8 The following year a similar meeting was held.9 Much sentiment was
                    aroused. Prominent among the effective agencies in the good work in our state was the W. C. T. U.10
            
            As a result of the sentiment aroused among the women, some exciting things took place throughout the
                    state. At 
                        Greencastle
                     the ladies had been picketing the saloons for five weeks. They had to sit out of doors
                    most of the time. In the end, however, many indictments were found against the liquor dealers; and
                    some of them actually had to close up.11 Of the dozen saloons in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , one surrendered during April, 1874 and the women were greatly encouraged. At 
                        Bloomington
                     the ladies stood guard from six o'clock in the morning until nine
                    o'clock at night. This was to enforce the Baxter law. At Elletsville, they so enforced
                    the law that no one in town used whiskey or other intoxicants.12
            
            At 
                        Shelbyville
                     the movement was spontaneous. A few women in the Methodist church appointed a
                    mother's prayer meeting where they met and prayed over the situation. Then they resolved
                    to visit the tippling houses, which they did. They were so much horrified at what they saw that they
                    began to sing and pray. It had quite a noticeable effect. The outgrowth of this was the formation of
                    a County Temperance Alliance, destined to continue for twenty years. Articles of association were
                    drawn up, a committee appointed to solicit stock, and a mass meeting appointed to be held at the
                    Methodist church. After that the women met daily at the Methodist church to pray against the
                        traffic.13 At Mt. Vernon, the saloons were soon reduced
                    from twenty-two to nine, and later from that to five, and these were in a dying condition as a
                    result of the efforts of the church women of the place. The 
                  
                     8
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1876, 124.
                  
                     9
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 405.
                  
                     10
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1882, 177.
                  
                     11
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1874, 157.
                  
                     12
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1874, 109.
                  
                     13
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1874, 61.
               
                     same was true at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Poseyville, 
                  Princeton, Evansville
               , etc.14
            
            Still another movement, known as the red ribbon movement, also spread rapidly over the 
                        United States
                     at about the same time. Doctor Henry A. Reynolds of Bangor, 
                        Maine
                    , adopted in 1874 the red ribbon as the badge of the reform club of that place. The
                    club, which for the most part consisted of reformed drinking men, had been organized but a short
                    time before this. It was probably the first club of its kind ever formed. In addition to the red
                    ribbon they also made use of the white ribbon to be worn by the women members and the boys under
                    eighteen years of age. The movement became popular and spread rapidly to other states, so that
                    before long it was mentioned as having organizations in Indiana.15
            
            By June of 1877 the movement had struck the 
                        Quaker
                     town of North 
                        Manchester
                     and ninety-six signed the pledge on the first evening. It was so successful that a
                    second meeting was announced.16 At LaGrange the movement was inaugurated by
                    Cassiday and Hollenbeck. It was very successful and by July 6 something over seven hundred had
                    signed the pledge. At 
                        Evansville
                     the movement struck with equal force. Drinkers donned the red ribbon and became active
                    temperance workers.17 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal speaks of the movement having reached them; over eight hundred had signed
                    the pledge by the middle of July. However, there were still eleven saloons left there who complained
                    of hard times. Public sentiment was improving; drunkards diminishing. In 
                        Madison county
                     success accompanied the movement; Union county reported twenty-five hundred signers; 
                        Fayette
                    , four thousand and 
                        Franklin
                     two thousand. At 
                        Connersville
                     a temperance picnic was held which was attended by a crowd of about eight thousand.18 In New 
                        Albany
                     the red ribbon movement had become permanent by the end of the year; by 1878 
                  
                     14
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1874, 133. (This paper seems to be more
                            authoritative and comprehensive than any other paper consequently it is oftenest cited as a
                            reference.
                  
                     15
                            Cyclopedia of Temperance and Reform, 57.
                  
                     16
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 189.
                  
                     17
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 221.
                  
                     18
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 253.
               
                    
                    
                        Evansville
                     boasted of ten thousand signers of the pledge; here a Mrs. Saleta Evans presented the
                    Red Ribbon Club with a lot valued at $10,000 for the erection of a public hall.19 With the movement extending in this manner throughout the state, aided by the
                    church men, particularly the Methodists, their influence was considerably felt in the way of a
                    creation of public sentiment in favor of temperance everywhere.
            Next in these ribbon crusades came the blue ribbon movement, sometimes known as the Murphy movement.
                    Perhaps, the blue ribbon has been associated with temperance reform more than any other badge. It
                    was adopted by Francis Murphy and has since been donned by thousands in this country who have been
                    induced to sign the pledge. The idea seems to have been borrowed from 
                        England
                     where their organization had started in 1873. In a short time more than a million
                    pledge cards had been issued in addition to the cards given out by the independent individual
                    workers. After a time there was a change in the name from the Blue-Ribbon army to the Blue-Ribbon
                    Gospel temperance movement. Since then several branch organizations have been organized within the
                    society; such as, the Help-Myself Society among the men and the Help-One-Another Society, among the
                        women.20
            
            The movement had hardly started before it began to spread throughout the 
                        United States
                    . It was introduced at 
                        Madison
                     during the first part of June, 1877. A meeting was held at the court house there and
                    twenty-two signed the pledge.21 The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Independent Courier says that the Murphy movement was introduced at 
                        Vevay
                     about the same time under the leadership of the Reverend W. W. Synder; forty-eight
                    persons signed the pledge. A dispatch to the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial dated 
                        Cambridge City
                    , June 10, says: "The Murphy struck 
                        Cambridge City
                     today. About five hundred have signed the pledge amid enthusiams." At 
                        Aurora
                     one thousand signatures 
                  
                     19
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1878, 69.
                  
                     20
                            Cyclopedia of Temperance and Reform, 57.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, June 6, 1877. At the meeting of the North 
                                Madison
                             Temperance organization Tuesday evening, twenty-four new names were added to
                            the pledge. A red ribbon for the gentleman and a blue one for the ladies were adopted as
                            badges of the organization. A petition bearing one hundred and fifty names was placed in the
                            hands of a committee to be presented to the county commissioners asking them not to grant
                            Mr. Henderson a license to sell liquor in North 
                        Madison. Madison
                     
                            Courier, June 8, 1877.
               
                     to the Murphy pledge were obtained. Patriot was perfectly
                    revolutionized by the movement. Here it was led by Reverend D. A. Robertson, of Patriot circuit,
                    assisted by workers from Rising Sun; in 
                        Jonesboro
                     nine hundred and ten signed the pledge in one week; this comprised about nine-tenths of
                    the drinking people, many of whom had been hard drinkers. The saloon keepers began to feel quite
                    blue. At Rising Sun the movement was inaugurated in the Methodist church by T. H. Bnham of
                    Elizabethtown, assisted by other pastors; two hundred and three persons signed the pledge. In 
                        Richmond
                     the Methodist pastors, Reverend A. Marine and R. H. Sparks as well as others were
                    conspicuously active in this movement. Meeting were held in the Lyceum hall, the largest room in the
                    city. It was crowded every night. For three weeks this continued. At the end of that time about five
                    thousand had signed the pledge.22
            
            At 
                        Princeton
                     the movement struck with wonderful success, over sixteen hundred signing the pledge; at 
                        Portland
                     drunkards reformed by the hundreds; at 
                        Covington
                     the same thing was true;23 at Potaka the Methodists inaugurated the
                    movement, seventy-five being enrolled upon the temperance banner.24
                    
                        Marion
                     signed six hundred in two nights, ninety percent of which remained true to their
                    pledge; at 
                        Greenfield
                     the pastor of the Methodist church threw himself body and soul into the work; the same
                    is true of the pastor of Dillsboro.25 Blue ribbons became quite numerous in 
                        Greencastle
                    , led on by Doctor Conway, a reformed drunkard physician.26
            
            All during 1877 the movement continued over the state and in the following year. 
                        Randolph county
                     was thoroughly aroused. The Methodist pastor of Edinburg reports from forty to
                    seventy-five names weekly as pledges.27 At 
                        Washington
                     over fifteen hundred had taken the Murphy pledge;28 over eighteen
                    hundred had signed in Bluffton and over four 
                  
                     22
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 205.
                  
                     23
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, p. 213.
                  
                     24
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 221.
                  
                     25
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 237.
                  
                     26
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 253.
                  
                     27
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1877, 77.
                  
                     28
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1878, 85.
               
                     thousand in Wells county at the end of the first three
                        weeks;29
                    
                        Shelby county
                     under the leadership of the Blue Ribbon organization, had a grand temperance revival,
                    five thousand persons in the county signing. Great improvement in the crowds that assembled in 
                        Shelbyville
                     on Saturday and Sunday was noticed.30 And so the thing grew until
                    near the end of 1879 it was reported that there were eighty-five local unions in the state in good
                    working order.31
            
            It has undoubtedly been one of the big temperance forces in the state and there is no question but
                    that the major portion of the members were also members of some church.
            Besides these mentioned there was the Union Temperance organization of Indiana. This met and
                    organized in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 24, 1878. The Indiana State Christian Temperance Union organized about the same
                    time, and the Grand Council of Temperance. The latter came into existence on November 19, 1879. The
                    object of the organization was to unite the different temperance organizations of the state for the
                    purpose of concerted action. In their constitution provision was made for all temperance societies
                    of the state to form the Union, without, however, each losing its distinctive feature. The
                    Constitution, which was subsequently adopted was as follows: 
                        In order to form an alliance, insure harmony, secure concert of action, and promote the
                            causes of temperance, we the representatives of the different temperance organizations in
                            the state of Indiana, grateful for the helping hand of Almighty God, do ordain and establish
                            this Constitution.
                        Article I. All powers herein granted shall be vested in a council to be known as the Grand
                            Temperance Council of the State of Indiana.
                        Section 2. The Grand Council shall be composed of delegates to be chosen every year by the
                            several organizations in the state, each to be entitled to such representation as may from
                            time to time be fixed by the council.
                        Article II. At each annual meeting of the council there shall be appointed an executive
                            committee of five. Such a committee shall have general superintendence over the work
                            throughout the state, shall decide upon the statistics to be reported to the Grand Council,
                            make all necessary 
                        
                           29
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1878, 93. Mention is made in the 
                                        Greencastle
                                    
                                    Banner,
                                    
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Courier and others in a more general way than here. The Western Christian Advocate seems to be a good summary of the
                                    movement.
                        
                           30
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1878, 77.
                        
                           31
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1879, 373.
                     
                             arrangements in reference to the annual holdings of the
                            meeting of the council. They shall fill all vacancies in office occurring during the year
                            and all money shall be paid out under the direction of such committee.
                        Section 3. The corresponding secretary shall devote all the time necessary to the discharge
                            of the duties of the office, and shall receive such salary as the council shall from time to
                            time fix and determine.
                        Section 4. The president and other officers shall perform the duties that usually pertain to
                            such offices.
                        Section 5. At every meeting of the council there shall be appointed a committee of five in
                            each congressional district in the state, who shall assist the executive committee in
                            organizing and prosecuting the work; and shall appoint such sub-committees of three in each
                            county in their respective districts. Through such district committees the county committees
                            shall report the condition of the work in their respective counties, quarterly to the
                            executive committee.
                        Article III. All the various organizations shall remain intact, retaining their distinctive
                            features, and the council shall in no way interfere with nor change the manner of
                            prosecuting their work.
                        Article. IV. The Grand Council shall from time to time adopt such by-laws as may be deemed
                            proper, the same not to be inconsistent with this constitution.
                        Article V. The Grand Council, whenever two-thirds of the members present shall deem it
                            necessary, may make amendments to this constitution which shall be valid and to all intent
                            and purposes become a part of the same.32
                  
                    
            
            As the Grand Council grew in organization more work was done; a state central temperance literature
                    bureau was formed with Miss Auretta Hoyt as secretary; days of prayer were inaugurated; christian
                    and temperance people all over the state were urged to attend the session of the legislature in
                    1881; a prohibitory amendment to the constitution was asked for and men and women were urged to
                    write to their representatives. In their own words: 
                        The Grand Temperance Council has come to stay. It is permanently established, and we shall
                            keep it until we win, no matter how long it takes. In addition we count on the whole moral
                            and religious force of the state to help us.33
                  
                        First, gospel temperance meetings are to be held as often as practicable in all the
                        churches.
                    
            
            
               
                  32
                        Western Christian Advocate, 1879, 382. Also Constitution in Minutes and the
                        Proceedings of the Grand Council.
               
                  33
                        Western Christian Advocate, 1881, 20.
            
            
            Besides this an earnest appeal was made to the clergy and churches of the state. It was as follows:
                        
                        Second, that there be co-operation with county councils wherever they exist, in securing
                            addresses and sermons and gospel temperance meetings for all possible points of the country;
                            and we also ask that you use your personal efforts in securing an organization of the
                            temperance forces of your county into a county temperance council.
                        Third, that we ask a pledge from the members of our respective churches to support
                                prohibition.34
                  
                    
            
            By 1881, their work had become so great that the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer said of them: 
                        The temperance people of Indiana have hit upon a new method of organization, which is not
                            only unique, but promises to be very effective in giving strength for the prohibitionists
                            from all political parties. The Grand Temperance council is making up a state central
                            committee of one man from each political party in every county. Their object is not to
                            organize independent political action but to keep the prohibition movement outside of
                            parties and unite the full temperance strength of each party in the interest of candidates
                            pledged to refer the prohibitory constitutional amendment to the people.
                    
            
            In addition to this the Methodists of the state proposed to hold an Indiana Methodist Episcopal
                    conference for temperance. This was to prepare the public mind for the issue in the fall of 1881.35
            
            At about the same time that the ribbon movements were under way, the lodges began to work along the
                    same lines. As early as 1874 the grand lodge of the Odd Fellows of Indiana took action on the
                    subject of temperance. The grand master, Richard Owen of the State University, made a report against
                    it; and on the same day the grand lodge issued the following resolution against it by a vote of four
                    hundred and fifty to one. 
                        Inasmuch as our order is placed, in many locations, in a false position on the question of
                            temperance, and erroneous views are entertained by parties outside of our order on our
                            postion as Odd Fellows; therefore,
                        
                     Resolved: That our grand representative to the grand lodge of the 
                                United States
                             be instructed to urge upon that body the passage of the law prohibiting lodges
                            from receiving into their membership any person engaged in the manufacture or sale of
                            spirituous or malt liquors and that they be requested to use their best endeavors to induce
                            those who are engaged to relinquish the traffic in these articles. The influence of 
                        
                           34
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1881, 245. Report of the Minutes and
                                    Proceedings of the Grand Council.
                        
                           35
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1881, 133.
                     
                             this action will be felt in every portion of Indiana
                            where 24,778 members of the fraternity are now found.36
                  
                    
            
            The Odd Fellows were followed shortly by the Masons and various other lodges all of which lent their
                    quota of influence to the movement. Add to all of these movements the Children's
                    temperance movement begun at New 
                        Albany
                     in 1879;37 temperance camp meetings held in various parts of the
                    state such as 
                  Vincennes, Lafayette, Columbus, Muncie
                and 
                        Ligonier
                    ;38 and the thousands of petitions beginning to pour into the
                    legislative halls and an idea may be gathered concerning the growing temperance sentiment throughout
                    the state.39 The time seemed ripe for more legislation.
            As a result of the beginning of these various agitations, an act was passed on February 27, 1873,
                    which made it unlawful to sell, or give away for the purpose of gain any intoxicating liquors to be
                    drunk about the premises without first obtaining a permit from the county commissioners. The
                    applicant for such a license had to file with the auditor, not less than twenty days before the
                    meeting of the board, a petition in writing giving the exact location, also certifying that the said
                    applicant was a voter in the county, and that he was a proper person to have such a permit. This
                    application had to be signed by a majority of the legal voters resident in the ward, town or
                    township. If the petition was according to law and in regular form then the applicant had to pay the
                    expense of filing such petition and give a bond of three thousand dollars with freehold security to
                    insure payment of all fines and costs and all damages which might result from the selling of liquors
                    by him. These licenses were all for one year; and the man was required to keep a certificate in a
                    conspicuous place showing when his permit expired. If this permit was violated 
                  
                     36
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1874, 182.
                  
                     37
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1879, 139.
                  
                     38
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1882, 5.
                  
                     39 The 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Banner says 40,000 petitions. Petitions 1883 to submit amendments.
                            Signatures aggregated 24,755 from 85 counties. Petitions placed in Senate, 9,957. To
                            Republican senators, 4,282; Democratic senators, 5,674. Petitions placed in House, 14,798.
                            To Republican representatives, 7,521; Democratic, 7,277. Total petitions to Republican
                            members, 11,804; Democratic, 13,951. Thousands more were to follow. The clerk was going to
                            have a barrel ready to hold the vast pile of manuscripts which were coming in asking to have
                            either the temperance or suffrage amendments submitted. 
                                Madison
                            
                            Weekly Courier, Jan. 24, 1883.
               
                     in any manner the holder must forfeit it and no new license
                    might be granted him for a period of five years. In addition to this he was not allowed to sell
                    liquors to minors or intoxicated persons, or persons in the habit of becoming intoxicated. Moreover,
                    no liquors might be sold on Christmas, Thanksgiving Day or any public holiday between the hours of
                    nine p. m. and six a. m. Other minor provisions were made as well as provisions for adequate
                    penalties for the violation of any or all parts of the act.40 This act is
                    sometimes known as the "Baxter Law". A local act was also passed authorizing the
                    city of 
                        Huntington
                     to charge a license fee of not less than twenty-five nor more than five hundred
                        dollars.41
            
            In the meantime, as noted above, the agitation became greater and greater. As a direct outgrowth of
                    this two more laws were passed in 1875. The first of these provided that any person holding office
                    under the constitution or laws of this state who shall voluntarily become intoxicated within the
                    business hours of his office, or shall be in the habit of becoming intoxicated, shall forfeit his
                    office, and be removed therefrom upon complaint and conviction filed by any citizen of the state.42
            
            In the second place another act was passed which provided that no person should sell any spirituous,
                    vinous, or malt liquors in less quantities than one quart without a license, nor shall any persons
                    without a license sell any intoxicating liquors to be drank about his premises. To obtain such a
                    license the applicant had to give twenty days' notice in some newspaper, or three most
                    prominent places in case there be no newspaper, before the meeting of the board, describing the
                    precise location where he intended to keep shop. Any voter, then, of the township might remonstrate
                    in writing on account of the immorality or other unfitness of the applicant. The license for such
                    sale of liquor was to cost one hundred dollars in addition to which the man was required to give
                    bond in the sum of two thousand dollars conditioned to keep an orderly and peaceable 
                  
                     40 Laws of Indiana, 1873, 151-8.
                  
                     41
                            Laws of Indiana, 1873, 149.
                  
                     42
                            Laws of Indiana, 1875, 91.
               
                     house and to pay all fines. Such licenses were good for one
                        year.43
            
            Some of the provisions of the law were that no licensed person was to sell on Sunday or any legal
                    holiday, or on election day, or between eleven p. m. and five a. m. under penalty of not less than
                    ten dollars or more than fifty for the first conviction; for the second he had to forfeit his
                    license. Neither was he permitted to sell to persons in the habit of becoming drunk; nor to any
                    person after notice had been given to him by the wife, child, parent, brother, or sister, or
                    township trustee under penalty of from ten to fifty dollars. Other minor provisions were included
                    such as penalties for getting drunk, for adulterating liquors, and for keeping disorderly places.
                    All former laws for regulating the sale of liquors and all parts of laws conflicting with these are
                    repealed and an emergency declared.44
            
            But legislation did not follow closely upon the heels of the various movements in the state for only
                    minor provisions in 1877 were passed. They made it unlawful to sell on Sunday, Fourth of July, New
                    Years day, Christmas, Thanksgiving or any election days under penalty of not less than ten nor more
                    than fifty dollars, to which might be added imprisonment not to exceed sixty days. Moreover, no
                    druggist or druggist's clerk should sell on those days, except on a written prescription
                    of some regular practicing physician under penalty of not less than five nor more than one hundred
                    dollars to which might also be added imprisonment not to exceed sixty days.45
            
            During the same year another act was passed which authorized any incorporated towns to license the
                    sale of spirituous, vinous, malt and other intoxicating liquors at a sum not exceeding the price
                    charged by the state. The wording of this law was slightly changed in 1879 but the context remained
                    the same.46
            
            The agitation by this time had become quite intense; thousands of memorials and resolutions were
                    being offered yearly to the legislature; and petitions were introduced into the 
                  
                     43 Cities and incorporated towns might charge one hundred dollars in
                            addition to these provisions. Vinous and malt liquor licenses cost only fifty dollars.
                  
                     44
                            Laws of Indiana. Special Session 1875, 55-59.
                  
                     45
                            Laws of Indiana, 1877, 92-3.
                  
                     46
                            Laws of Indiana, 1879, 144-5.
               
                     Senate, January 18, 1881, through the members of the counties
                    sending them. They aggregated 12,336 signatures, all legal voters duly attested and representing
                    fifty-nine counties.47 It created a greater sensation than any ordinary routine
                    business since the beginning of the session. The petitions were signed by all classes. Accordingly
                    the members of the legislature of 1881 deemed it wise to take a greater step than they had since the
                    days of 1855. A few minor acts were passed at the same time that the more important legislation was
                    going on. One of these provided that whoever holding an office under the constitution or laws of the
                    state became intoxicated during the business hours of his office should be fined from ten to one
                    hundred dollars, to which might be added imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed ten days, and
                    for the second offense he might be deprived of his office by judgment of the proper court.48
            
            Another of these acts passed the same year provided penalties for drunkenness, selling to a man who
                    was drunk, or who was known habitually to get drunk, selling to a minor, furnishing intoxicants to a
                    prisoner, selling on Sunday or legal holidays, or between the hours of eleven p. m. at night and
                    five a. m. in the morning, selling liquor within one mile of religious or agricultural meetings
                    except at the regular places of business. Druggists were also prohibited from selling in any
                    quantities on Sunday, July Fourth, New Years day, Christmas, Thanksgiving or other legal holiday and
                    on any election day. The penalties ranged from ten to one hundred dollars fine and imprisonment not
                    to exceed sixty days.49
            
            The same legislature under stress of petitions sent them by teachers, professors, attorneys,
                    physicians, and college presidents proposed to submit the following amendment to the people of the
                    state after it should have again been passed by the legislature of 1883.50 It
                    was a joint resolution originating in the House and read as follows: 
                        Section 1. The manufacture, sale, or keeping for sale in said state, spirituous, vinous, malt
                            or any other intoxicating liquors except for 
                        
                           47
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1881, 29.
                        
                           48
                                    Acts of Regular and Special Sessions, 1881, 204.
                        
                           49
                                    Acts of Regular and Special Sessions, 1881, 214-16.
                        
                           50
                                    Western Christian Advocate, 1881, 29.
                     
                             medical, scientific, mechanical and wines for
                            sacramental purposes shall be and is hereby forever prohibited in the State of Indiana.
                        Section 2. The General Assembly of the State of Indiana shall provide by law in what manner,
                            by whom, and at what places such liquors shall be manufactured or sold for medical,
                            scientific, mechanical and sacramental purposes.51
                  
                    
            
            The agitation during the next two years was perhaps the greatest in the history of the state. Led by
                    the four conferences of Methodism in the state the forces of temperance put up a gallant fight. The
                    temperance report of the church in 1881 was as follows: 
                        Whereas the legislature of the state of Indiana at its last session took the initial steps
                            looking to the submission of an amendment to the constitution of the state prohibiting the
                            manufacturing or sale of liquors to be used as a beverage; and, whereas the next legislature
                            will have to pass upon the subject before it can be submitted to a vote of the people;
                            therefore
                        
                     Resolved: That we pledge ourselves with the temperance people of the state
                            to use our influence and votes to defeat any candidate for the legislature of the state who
                            will not pledge himself and his vote in favor of submitting this question to a vote of the
                                people.52
                  
                    
            
            This was followed by a much stronger one in 1882. It read: 
                        
                     Resolved: That a refusal on the part of the legislature to submit this
                            question to a vote of the people would be subversive of their rights as guaranteed by our
                            constitution and by the genius of our government.
                        
                     Resolved: That we claim and demand the right to pass upon this amendment at
                            a special election, when the question can be separated from all political and personal
                            complications.
                        
                     Resolved: That we will support no man, or any political party, for the
                            legislature, who will not in advance pledge himself to vote for this amendment and for its
                            submission to the people.
                        
                     Resolved: That we will banish all fermented wines from our sacramental
                            tables.
                        
                     Resolved: That we will heartily co-operate with all legitimate political or
                            temperance organizations that are seeking to establish constitutional prohibition.53
                  
                    
            
            In spite of these resolutions and pledges of the Methodists, the forty thousand petitions of the
                    people to the legislature asking for the amendment,54 and the ardent work of all
                    the 
                  
                     51
                            Acts of Regular and Special Sessions, 1881, 720-21.
                  
                     52
                            Northwest Indiana Conference Minutes, 1881, 52.
                  
                     53
                            Northwest Indiana Conference Minutes, 1882, 52-3.
                  
                     54
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1883, 37.
               
                     temperance societies, the amendment failed to come up before
                    the people and the forces of right were again defeated. The story of how they were defeated is told
                    in another chapter on temperance agitation and constitutional growth.
            Again the forces of intemperance had won. Summarizing the outstanding features of the work during the
                    period we find, in the first place, a period of depression following their defeat in 1855; next the
                    period of great laxity due to the demoralization of the temperance forces, the slavery agitation,
                    the Civil war, and then the reconstruction period. These years are characterized by the lack of
                    temperance societies, lack of interest on the part of the churches and almost utter disregard of the
                    problem by the legislature. After this came the growing sentiment as shown by the great number of
                    societies, church work, and an increased agitation in the legislative halls. Of the many temperance
                    workers of the time perhaps Thomas A. Goodwin and Colonel Ray deserve especial mention.
            THE PERIOD OF VICTORY
            Just as a period of depression followed the defeat of the temperance forces in 1855 so a similar
                    period followed their defeat in 1883. However, in the latter there was no Civil war or other great
                    national crisis to accentuate this depression. Consequently it did not become nearly so great as
                    during the earlier period.
            In the meantime the country continued in its prosperity. The population in Indiana increased from
                    1,978,301 in 1880 to 2,192,404 in 1890; from that to 2,516,462 in 1900; and to 2,700,876 in 1910;1 and, doubtless at the time of complete victory, had reached the three million
                    mark. Means of communication multiplied. The old postal system and isolated telephone were
                    supplemented by multiplied telegraph lines and rural mail delivery; a rejuvenated civil service with
                    express and parcels post came into existence; ways of transportation increased from the few trains,
                    buggies and wagons to countless railroad and interurban lines, and thousands of automobiles; from
                    the little country school house we progressed to consolidation and centralization, to a systematized
                    high school 
                  
                     1
                            Statistics for Indiana, Bureau of Census, 568.
               
                     and numerous universities-all devoted to the education of the
                    young; industry likewise grew by leaps and bounds. With the development of all of these phases of
                    life has come a slow and steady development of the machinery of government as well as other
                    institutions, such as the churches. The latter have hardly kept pace with the others, but
                    nevertheless they have made their presence felt.
            The churches continued to be among the most potent temperance forces in the state. Because of their
                    traditions they were impelled to even greater efforts than any time in their previous history. And
                    because of the great increase in their membership and wealth they were better qualified to do more.
                    From a church of 106,735 members in 1880, the Methodists as representative of the general church
                    movement, grew until they reached the mark of 141,693 in 1890-a percentage of six and nine-tenths of
                    the entire population; from that to 178,676 in 1900, a percentage of seven and six-tenths of the
                    whole and from that to 208,655 in 1910, a percentage of eight and two-tenths; and, by 1915 just two
                    years before the ultimate victory they numbered 240,084, about one-third the entire church
                    membership in the state. Add to this the growth of public moral sentiment due to their efforts and
                    the expansion of the church temporal welfare and a fair conception of their importance can be
                    gained. In 1880 the Methodists had property valued at about only $3,000,000; in 1890 that
                    had multiplied to $3,760,950 while their parsonages had grown in value to
                    $454,405, making a total of $4,214,355; by 1900 it had further increased to
                    about $4,902,415 for the churches and for the parsonages about $700,000,
                    making in all about $5,600,000; and, by 1910 the value of the churches was placed at
                    $7,811,960and the parsonages $1,172,565 totaling about $9,000,000.
                    By the year 1917 they were both valued at more than $12,000,000.2
            
            The other churches increased in like manner. By 1906 the Baptists in the state numbered, 92,705; the
                    Christian church, 118,447; the Lutherans, 55,768; the Presbyterians, 58,633; Roman Catholics,
                    174,347; United Brethren, 52,700; the German Evangelical Synod, 21,624; Episcopalian, 7,653 and all
                        
                  
                     2 These statistics were taken from the various reports of the Indiana
                            Conferences. A few are missing so an estimate had to be made.
               
                     other denominations 102,249.3 Besides this
                    their wealth had increased until the total for all the churches was $31,081,500. With
                    still other institutions like these fighting all of the various liquor organizations need it be
                    necessary to say that much work was done during this period for the betterment of the people of the
                    state?
            Along with the growth of the churches came the development of the various other temperance
                    organizations, largely a result of the influence emanating from the former. The various
                    organizations beginning previous to the eighties continued their work, many of them increased
                    greatly for a time and a few new ones began operations, while some died out entirely.
            To aid further temperance work the Methodist church organized within itself a temperance society.
                    This did not take place until 1908 and consequently its influence has been exerted only in
                    comparatively recent years. The purpose of the society was to spread the doctrine of temperance
                    throughout the church, promote voluntary abstinence from intoxicating liquors among the people
                    connected with the church, and raise money for the assistance of the temperance cause. Money did not
                    begin to make its apperance, however, until 1912. Following is a table showing the entire amount
                    contributed by the church for that cause.
            
               
                  Year.
                  N.W. Ind. Conf.
                  N. Ind. Conf.
                  Ind. Conf.
                  Total.
               
               
                  1912
                  $153
                  $-
                  $-
                  $153
               
               
                  1913
                  222
                  200
                  340
                  762
               
               
                  1914
                  339
                  533
                  480
                  1,325
               
               
                  1915
                  375
                  732
                  556
                  1,663
               
               
                  1916
                  441
                  748
                  643
                  1,832
               
               
                  1917
                  661
                  885
                  1,071
                  2,617
               
               
                  1918
                  833
                  -
                  -
                  833
               
               
                  Total
                  $3,024
                  $3,098
                  $3,090
                  $9,212.4
                  
               
            
            Seemingly not a very flattering report when one considers that the total wealth of the church was
                    about $12,000,000 in 
                  
                     3
                            Special Report of the Bureau of Census, 1906. Part I, 46.
                  
                     4 Statistics taken from the reports of the three Indiana conferences
                            for the years beginning 1912 and through 1918. In 1918 the North Indiana conference and the
                            Indiana conference and discontinued that form of benevolence.
               
                     1917. This means that about one dollar for every
                    $1,400 worth of wealth was expended toward the extinction of the greatest enemy of the
                    church; the one about which they prayed the most, preached the loudest, and offered the greatest
                    number of resolutions. It must be borne in mind, however, that the church has been a large
                    contributor to the Anti-Saloon league.
            These new organizations added new zest to the temperance agitation and things began again to move. In
                    1886 a few of the more ardent members of the Republican party who were enthusiastic temperance
                    workers met on October 20 and held a convention in the interest of that cause. It came to be known
                    as the Republican Local Option league. E. B. Reynolds called the meeting to order and officers were
                    elected. After this, resolutions were offered which declared that since the Democratic party was
                    under the complete control of the liquor forces it was the first duty of the temperance men in the
                    state to combine and defeat them at the next election. There may have been a grain of partisan
                    tactics in the movement. Moreover, they favored local option as the most safe and democratic
                    principle upon which to found the league. Before the close of the meeting delegates to the National
                    Republican Anti-Saloon conference were appointed.5 Just what influence this
                    organization had cannot be determined.
            Another movement, one that gave considerable momentum to the temperance fight, began a great deal
                    earlier than this period but only gained prominence in the state about this time. It was the
                    Prohibition Party. Organized in 1869 at Oswego, 
                        New York
                    , it took for its fundamental principle direct opposition to the manufacture, sale, and
                    use of all intoxicating drinks, except for scientific purposes. Gradually it spread until it reached
                    Inidana sometime during the early eighties. Certainly it is not mentioned much before this time, and
                    no votes were cast for their presidential candidate until 1884 when John P. St. John was the
                    presidential nominee.
            In spite of the heroic measures adopted it never gained any very great prominence as a party. Like
                    all third parties it had varied and uncertain history, but unlike them it lasted much longer than
                    any other. The following table will afford 
                  
                     5
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1886, 476.
               
                     an opportunity for an estimation of their political value in
                    the state.
            
               
                  Year.
                  Candidate.
                  Prohibition Vote.
                  Total Vote Possible.
               
               
                  1884
                  St. John
                  3,028
                  494,793
               
               
                  1888
                  Fiske
                  9,881
                  536,949
               
               
                  1892
                  Bidwell
                  13,050
                  553,613
               
               
                  1896
                  Levering
                  5,3236
                  
                  637,124
               
               
                  1900
                  Wooley
                  13,718
                  663,840
               
               
                  1904
                  Swallow
                  23,496
                  681,934
               
               
                  1908
                  Chafin
                  18,045
                  721,126
               
               
                  1912
                  Chafin
                  19,249
                  654,474
               
               
                  1916
                  Hanley
                  16,368
                  717,189.7
                  
               
            
            Although the prohibition party has never elected a presidential candidate and will probably cease to
                    exist in view of the present conditions, it has, however, had a great influence. Many times they
                    have held the balance of power between the two major parties.
            By 1880 the Woman's Christian Temperance union had been thoroughly organized and adopted a
                    formal constitution and by-laws. Article two of their constitution says that 
                        The object of the organization is to enlist and unite the women of the entire state in
                            temperance work, and devise and execute measures, which, with the blessing of God, will
                            result in the suppression of intemperance, and secure as soon as possible the entire
                            prohibition of the importation, manufacture and sale of intoxicating drinks.8
                  
                    
            
            Provision was made for state organization, the formation of district unions, county unions and local
                    unions. All of these divisions had constitutions that were quite similar, except of course that each
                    of the lower organizations were directly responsible to the one higher up in all matters relating to
                    policy and administration. Departments of work were also maintained. These ranged in number from
                    fifteen to thirtyfive. Among the most important were the following: 
                        
                     Homes for orphan and pauper children.
                     Young women's and youth's work.
                     Kindergarten work. 
                           
                              6 There was a split in the party at this time over the
                                        Silver question.
                           
                              7
                                        Cyclopedia of American Government, III, 33-46. World's Almanac, 1919,150.
                           
                              8 Constitution and By-Laws of W. C. T. U. in
                                    Indiana.
                        
                     
                     
                     Juvenile and Sunday School Department.
                     Department of Scientific Instruction.
                     Department of Heredity and Hygiene.
                     Evangelistic Department.
                     Department for Suppression of Impure Literature.
                     Work for colored people.
                     Work for the Germans.
                     State and County Fair work.
                     Department for Soldiers and Sailors.
                     Department for the overthrow of the opium habit.
                     Franchise Department.
                     Department for Promotion of Social Purity co-operating with the White Cross League,
                                    etc.9
                     
                  
                    
            
            In this manner the work in the state was thoroughly systematized, and the movement grew greatly in
                    strength and influence. The following table will give some idea of the growth of the society in the
                    state up to, and including the year 1893. After that time it grew until its membership was 12,700 in
                    1918 and the income something like eight thousand dollars, double that of 1904.
            
               
                  Year
                  Counties organized
                  Local Unions
                  Membership
                  Juvenile Societies
                  Money Received
               
               
                  1880
                  -
                  31
                  616
                  -
                  $-
               
               
                  1881
                  -
                  78
                  823
                  -
                  -
               
               
                  1882
                  -
                  80
                  1,532
                  -
                  -
               
               
                  1883
                  -
                  72
                  1,856
                  46
                  761.29
               
               
                  1884
                  -
                  101
                  2,565
                  57
                  2,229.39
               
               
                  1885
                  -
                  91
                  2,101
                  70
                  1,229.30
               
               
                  1886
                  -
                  110
                  2,082
                  37
                  1,112.58
               
               
                  1887
                  36
                  125
                  2,517
                  41
                  1,477.85
               
               
                  1888
                  30
                  180
                  3,727
                  46
                  1,819.79
               
               
                  1889
                  33
                  180
                  3,550
                  65
                  1,715.87
               
               
                  1890
                  47
                  234
                  5,079
                  104
                  3,639.37
               
               
                  1891
                  65
                  276
                  4,864
                  125
                  3,675.76
               
               
                  1892
                  76
                  327
                  5,535
                  168
                  4,510.31
               
               
                  1893
                  75
                  327
                  5,106
                  144
                  5,190.25.10
                  
               
            
            Along with this material growth came a great increase in the influence wielded by them throughout the
                    state. As stated in one of their reports, "By what system of mathematics shall 
                  
                     9 Reports of W. C. T. U. of Indiana. Any one after 1885.
                  
                     10 Report of W. C. T. U. 1893, 75.
               
                     we compute the spiritual and intellectual development of the
                    women engaged in our work?" Nor was it confined to the women. By their petitions
                    and prayers and organization many institutions were affected, particularly the legislative assembly
                    as well as local governing bodies. At 
                        Osgood
                     they quietly nominated a town ticket and had it printed. On the day of the election the
                    tickets were distributed without any one knowing the origin. Voters were so well pleased with it
                    that they elected the entire group.11 Previous to this they had prepared a bill
                    to the General Assembly to place Scientific Instruction in the schools of the state. It passed the
                    House by a vote of fifty-four to thirty-nine and was defeated in the Senate by a vote of twenty-two
                    to twenty. Petitions for its passage had been presented from sixty-five counties. The signatures
                    aggregated 16,004 to which might be added a great many individual letters.12
                    
                        The proper local authorities shall on and after September 1, 1885 require all pupils in all
                            schools supported by public money, or under state control, to study as a regular branch,
                            physiology and hygiene which shall in each division of the subject so pursued give special
                            reference to the effects of alcoholic drinks, stimulants and narcotics upon the human
                            system.
                        No person shall teach in the public schools, or in any school under state control in the
                            state of Indiana, after the first day of January. 1886. who has not passed a satisfactory
                            examination in physiology and hygiene with special reference to alcoholic drinks,
                            stimulants, and narcotics upon the human system.
                        No certficate of fitness to teach, issued by any authority previous to the passage of the act
                            shall exempt the holder thereof from the examination required by this statute.
                        The salaries or payment for the services as teachers, school examiners, or school officers of
                            any grade, shall be made void by the failure of such teachers, school examiners, or school
                            officials to comply with the provisions of this statute. Report of Indiana W. C. T. U. 1885,
                            50.
                    
            
            Temperance meetings, rallies and medal contests were held all over the state. Thousands of pages of
                    literature were distributed annually, poems were written, temperance songs were sung, house to house
                    canvasses were made, all in the interest of absolute prohibition. In fact the work increased in such
                    proportions that they were one of the three most important factors in the recent
                    "dry" campaign.13
            
            
               
                  11
                        Western Christian Advocate. 1888, 833.
               
                  12 Following is the bill which the W. C. T. U. kept before the legislature
                        from 1885 until its passage in 1895:
               
                  13 The following song, written by Kate Lunden, a native Scandinavias, was
                        used a great deal in the work and meetings of the W. C. T. U.
            
            
            Working with the W. C. T. U. as sub-organizations were the Young Woman's Christian
                    Temperance union and the Loyal Temperance legion, to which must be given considerable credit. The Y.
                    W. C. T. U. was organized November 10, 1879, by some thirty young ladies who had assembled in the
                    study of the Second Presbyterian church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The object of the society as defined in their constitution was to "plan and
                    carry forward the measures which with the blessings of 
                        WHITE RIBBON SPANGLED BANNER
                        Fling out to the breeze; let it tell to the world That the faith which has raised it
                            will never surrender, Let it tell that the love which our banner unfurled, Is the
                            guard of the home and the nation's defender. Let it gleam as a star, for the
                            ship-wrecked afar, Like a beacon that warns of the treacherous bar; Let that
                            banner of freedom and purity wave As a signal of hope 'midst the perils of
                            the brave.
                        Hold that banner aloft; let our colors be seen From Siberian snowfields to
                                African valleys; Lift it up for the truth; let the rays of its
                            sheen Drive the shadows of night from the by-ways and alleys. Let it tell to the
                            lost that we count not the cost; That our bridges are burned and our Rubicon
                            crossed; That the banner of mother-love ever shall wave, Till the paths are made
                            straight for the sin-burdened slave.
                        Let it fly at the front; it is washed in our tears And the smoke of the battle enhances
                            its whiteness, Though our hearts may be pierced by the enemy's spears,
                            Yet the flow from our wounds shall but add to its brightness, And this ensign of right,
                            it shall float o'er the fight, Till our wrongs are avenged by the triumph of
                            Right; And in radiant victory at last it shall wave, O'er the ramparts
                            we've stormed, o'er King Alcohol's grave.
                        Swing it out from the staff; let it shadow the ground Where the fathers of liberty sleep
                            'neath the mosses; Run it up o'er the homes where the mothers are
                            found Who through the watches of anguish are counting their losses, In the
                            tear-moistened sod, which our martyrs have trod, We are planting it deep for our land
                            and our God; And the banner of the world-circling lover o'er shall wave
                            In the name of our Christ, who is mighty to save.
                    
               
                  Report of Indiana W. C. T. U. 1898, p. 63.
               
                     God, shall result in total abstinence". The meetings
                    were largely social, literary and special work, but the idea that they were a temperance society was
                    kept prominently in mind.14
            
            The Loyal Temperance legion, organized some time later, desired to gather all of the members of the
                    various juvenile societies under the auspices of the W. C. T. U. so that they could be one central
                    state organization. Their secondary object was to form companies of Loyal legions in every town and
                    city in the state and to maintain a high standard among those already formed. They had a rapid
                    growth and considerable influence.15 Other sub-organizations such as the Bands
                    of Hope grew up also but since they were quite similar to the others they will not be given
                    consideration.
            The official organ of the W. C. T. U. and these sub-organizations was the Organizer, a twelve page weekly published by the Organizer Publishing Company of 
                        Lafayette
                    . Besides this publication the same company put out several other papers, chief of which
                    were, The Eastern Star (a sixteen page monthly), the Convention
                        Reporter (a sixteen page quarterly), The Institute Items (an eight page
                    quarterly), The Glad Tidings (one issue of sixteen pages). Other papers affiliated
                    with the temperance work and the various W. C. T. U. movements were the Union
                    Signal, The Message, and the Young Crusader.
               16
            
            Besides these two and the W. C. T. U. there were many minor societies having as their aim the
                    prohibition of the liquor traffic. One of these which later did some very creditable work was the
                    Lincoln legion, a temperance organization standing for Gospel Temperance and pledge signing. It was
                    organized at Oberlin, 
                        Ohio
                     in 1903, under the auspices of the Anti-Saloon league. The name was taken from a pledge
                    which Lincoln signed in his early days. It read: 
                        Whereas, the use of alcoholic liquors as a beverage is productive of pauperism, degradation
                            and crime; and believing it our duty to discourage 
                        
                           14 Minutes of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the W. C. T. U.
                                    1882, 27.
                        
                           15 The rallying cry of the Loyal legion was as follows: 
                                        Rah! Rah! Rah! We clover blossoms are
                                            a-field, Why? Saloons must die. Hear their knell.
                                            Indiana L. T. L.
                                    
                        
                        
                           16 Various Reports of the W. C. T. U. The Organizer had a good circulation.
                     
                             that which produces more evil than good, we therefore
                            pledge ourselves to abstain from the use of intoxicating liquors as a beverage.
                    
            
            This pledge was adopted by the legion. Both state and county organizations were provided for by the
                    laws of the society. It was not long until several hundred thousand persons had been organized so
                    near us it was only a short time until it hit Indiana with considerable force and for quite a while
                    had its share of influence.17
            
            Still other societies made their appearance; the Youth's Temperance Alliance of America,
                    organized in 1907; the National Temperance Society, which organized the former. Besides these there
                    were many others which, perhaps, did not have a very widespread influence. Some of them were as
                    follows: The International Order of Good Templars, The International Reform Bureau, The Catholic
                    Total Abstinence Union, The Templars of Honor and Temperance, The Order of The Sons of Temperance,
                    The Royal Templars of Temperance, but these seemed to work through the medium of the two or three
                    main and central temperance bodies rather than for themselves as a local order.
            Without doubt one of the most potent factors in the recent victory of the temperance forces was the
                    Indiana Anti-Saloon league. It had its beginning as a national movement in 1893, but did not reach
                    Indiana until 1898 when it was organized here under the direction of Howard H. Russell. In reality
                    it was the church in action against the liquor traffic. Such a movement had never been inaugurated
                    before, yet with its installation came more efficient methods of combat. The religious bodies of the
                    state, who, during the latter part of the movement, numbered well over six hundred thousand members,
                    elected the trustees that governed the league and were, therefore, responsible for the policy of the
                    organization. The purpose of the league, like the Temperance Alliance of former days, was to
                    federate upon all temperance questions, upon all religious, and upon all moral issues in the state.
                    It was nonsectarian, but christian; non-partisan, but patriotic; and, the whole movement was
                    directed exclusively against the beverage liquor traffic. The league did its work under five
                    different departments each of which was presided over by an executive 
                  
                     17
                            Encyclopedia of Social Reform, 715.
               
                     head known as the state superintendent. These departments were
                    as follows: (1) the organization department, (2) the platform department, (3) the legal department,
                    (4) the publicity department, (5) the finance department.
            With such an organization they have been able to accomplish wonders. Slightly before their
                    organization only a very small part of the state was dry, but so thorough and so earnest has been
                    their work that in less than two decades the state declared against the traffic forever. Their
                    program for 1916 had been to elect a state legislature and a congressional delegation favorable to
                    state and national prohibition, also a governor and other administrative officers to approve of and
                    enforce the same. How successful they were will be seen when we come to study the liquor legislation
                    during the session that followed.18 Their official organ besides their various
                    pamphlets, papers, reports, books, etc., was the Indiana Issue, a monthly paper,
                    begun in 1906 and lasting only a short time.
            The latest temperance organization in the state as well as the most powerful and centralized, was the
                    Indiana Dry Federation. A delegation of temperance people met at the Claypool Hotel on December 6,
                    1916, and began plans for the work. As outlined by them its purpose was as follows: 
                        It is the sense of the Indiana Dry Federation that while its work is largely advisory,
                            whenever possible it shall also voice to the state and to the legislature its wishes, as the
                            united thought of all the participating bodies, thus presenting a united front at the time
                            when it will count the most.19
                  
                    
            
            The organizations which were represented and which affiliated themselves actively with the new
                    association were: The Catholic Total Abstinence union, The Christian Women's Board of
                    Missions, The Intercollegiate Prohibition Association, Presbyterian Temperance Board, The National
                    Christian Board of Temperance, The Indiana State Horticultural Association, the W. C. T. U., the
                    Indiana State Civic Union, The Dry Democratic, Organization, The Flying Squadron, The Prohibition,
                    and it was also announced that the Legislative Council of Indiana Women would co-operate with the
                    Federation. The Anti-Saloon League refused to join.20
            
            
               
                  18 Pamphlet issued by Anti-Saloon League, 1-3.
               
                  19 The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, Dec. 7, 1916. p. 11, col. 2.
               
                  20 The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Dec. 13, 1916. p. 13, col. 2.
            
            
            Money for the necessary expenses of the federation was raised by asking for contributions at
                    prohibition mass meetings. Of such money collected twenty-five per cent of it was to be retained in
                    the county where the meeting was held while the other seventy-five per cent was to be used for the
                    expenses of the central organization.21
            
            After the fall of the temperance forces in 1883 eight years elapsed before any more liquor
                    legislation took place. Finally, however, in 1889 a law was passed which made it possible for an
                    aggrieved applicant or for a remonstrant against the granting of a license to appeal from the
                    decision of the board of county commissioners to the circuit court of the county. This might be done
                    any time within ten days after the decision of the board. However, such undertaking must first be
                    approved by the county auditor. If the appeal had not been filed within the allotted time it could
                    not be granted. Besides this sufficient surety to pay all costs, which might be adjudged by the
                    final decision, had to be guaranteed.22
            
            Another act the same year revised the statutes of 1881. Such revision read as follows: 
                        No city or incorporated town shall charge any person who may obtain a license under the
                            provisions of this act more than the following sums for a license to sell within their
                            corporate limits; cities may charge two hundred fifty dollars and incorporated towns one
                            hundred and fifty in addition to the sum which had to be paid into the county treasury.23
                  
                    
            
            Nothing more happened until 1893. Then the municipal governments of the cities were empowered to
                    license, tax and regulate the selling or giving away of any spirituous, vinous, or malt liquors and
                    to tax and regulate their places of business whether manufacture or store. Such jurisdiction
                    extended four miles from the corporate limits of the city or town and did not invalidate any of the
                    state laws in regard to the license, tax or regulation.24 It is to be noted here
                    that instead of the great number of societies which characterized the earlier movements, the
                    tendency was toward centralization and more 
                  
                     21 Ibid. W. E. Carpenter of 
                                Brazil
                             was chosen president of the Federation and Mrs. Culla J. Vayhinger president of
                            the W. C. T. U. was chosen for their secretary
                  
                     22
                            Laws of Indiana, 1889, 288.
                  
                     23
                            Laws of Indiana, 1889, 395.
                  
                     24
                            Laws of Indiana, 1893, 213.
               
                     complete organization. It is not surprising, therefore, to note
                    that the chief societies for the furtherance of the temperance idea may be grouped under three
                    different heads: The Anti-Saloon league, The Women's Christian Temperance union and the
                    Indiana Dry Federation. During the latter part of 1916 all temperance organizations except the
                    Anti-Saloon league subordinated themselves to the Indiana Dry Federation.
            In addition to these there have been from time to time reform meetings, temperance rallies and
                    conventions everywhere. Many examples of these are in evidence, but only one or two will be cited.
                    At 
                        Brown
                    's grove, two and one-half miles south of Liberty a rally was held on August
                    8, 1885. Noted preachers were present and spoke on the right of the people to control the liquor
                    traffic by constitutional amendment.25 Besides this many revivals were conducted
                    throughout the state in the interest of the temperance forces. At 
                        Muncie
                    , Thomas E. Murphy held a very successful meeting;26 at 
                        Aurora
                    , W. J. Murphy, son of Francis Murphy, held one of the greatest temperance revivals ever
                    witnessed in that section of the country. The house was crowded to overflowing every night.27 The same thing has been true every year since. Many papers, too, advocated
                    total prohibition as a beverage. Of these the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, the Phalanx and many Republican papers were active
                    along this line.28
            
            In 1895 a law was passed known as the Nicholson law. It provided that all persons applying for a
                    license had to specifically describe the room in which he, she or they desired to sell liquors along
                    with the exact location of the same. Such applicant must be of good moral character, over twenty-one
                    years of age and be the proprietor in person of the said place of business. Additional provisions
                    prevented the placing of screens or blinds in such a position as to hide the interior of the room
                    from the street. Minors were prohibited from going into the room for any purpose whatever. In
                    addition a remonstranceclause made it possible for a majority of the voters of any township or ward
                    to prevent any saloon or other liquor 
                  
                     25
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1885, 229.
                  
                     26
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1889, 76.
                  
                     27
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1889, 92.
                  
                     28
                            Western Christian Advocate, 1886, 301, 461, etc.
               
                     shop being set up in that district. In order to do this a
                    remonstrance had to be signed by the majority of the voters of the said unit and filed with the
                    county auditor three days before the regular session of the board of commissioners. If this were
                    properly done it was unlawful to issue a license in that township or ward for a period of two years
                    from the date of the filing of such remonstrance. However, should any license be granted under those
                    conditions it was null and void and the holder was liable under the laws of the state just the same
                    as if he had never had a license. The number which constituted the majority of voters referred to
                    above was determined by the aggregate vote cast in the unit district for the candidate running for
                    the highest office at the last election preceding the filing of the remonstrance. Drug stores were
                    not permitted to sell in less quantities than a quart and then only upon a written prescription from
                    a practicing physician. Adequate penalties for the non-observance of all of these clauses were
                    provided; they ranged from a fine of ten dollars to two hundred and imprisonment not to exceed six
                        months.29
            
            In regard to the municipal government the cities were also authorized to license, regulate and
                    restrain all places where intoxicating liquors were kept for sale. They were given power to
                    designate the room, or building; might direct the arrangement of the doors and windows; and, might
                    also direct the location of the bar and other interior furnishings. They were also given
                    jurisdiction over the kinds of games that were to be allowed in the establishment.30
            
            At the earnest request of the W. C. T. U. and other organizations the General Assembly passed, during
                    this same year, an act requiring that a study of the nature of alcoholic drinks and narcotics and
                    their effects on the human system be placed in the common school curriculum in connection with
                    physiology and hygiene. All educational institutions supported wholly or in part by the state had
                    also to include them. These were to be regularly taught. Boards of education were instructed to
                    provide the machinery for such a movement. In places where it was impossible to get a text book oral
                    teaching could fill the requirements. Teachers from that date were expected 
                  
                     29
                            Laws of Indiana, 1895, 248-52.
                  
                     30
                            Laws of Indiana, 1895, 182.
               
                     to pass an examination in the subject before being allowed to
                    teach. Dismissal from employment was the penalty attached for anyone who neglected or refused to
                    teach the subject.31 The importance of this move cannot be estimated too highly,
                    and the temperance forces, particularly the W. C. T. U., cannot be commended too greatly for their
                    perseverance in this direction. It is a significant face that twenty-two years after the children of
                    the state had begun to be taught the significance of the evil, they insisted that the General
                    Assembly protect their homes from its influence.
            At the next session two acts were passed. One of these empowered the trustees of incorporated towns
                    to license, regulate or restrain the sale of spirituous, vinous, malt and other intoxicating liquors
                    within the corporation.32 This was much the same law as the one that had been
                    passed in 1893. Besides this a revision of the old existing law of 1881 was attempted.
            This law read that any one who desired to sell liquor in less quantities than a quart must first
                    obtain a license; obviously then it had been possible for anyone to evade the law by selling in
                    greater quantities than a quart. This new law included the sale of all liquors in quantities up to
                    five gallons. The license fee at this time was changed to one hundred dollars for spirituous,
                    vinous, or malt liquors. No distinction was made between them as had been done formerly. Other
                    slight changes were made but not enough to be of any material consequence.33
            
            The agitation had not reached great heights yet since the last defeat, so not a great deal of
                    pressure had been brought to bear on the legislators. On the other hand there was still enough
                    sentiment to keep the issue before the people. This led to a readjustment of the laws from time to
                    time. Consequently again in 1901 another act was passed which made it unlawful for the prosecuting
                    attorney or his deputy to act directly or indirectly as an agent or council to assist an applicant
                    in obtaining a license to retail intoxicating liquors under the laws of the state. A fine of not
                    less than one hundred nor more than one thousand dollars was the penalty to which might 
                  
                     31
                            Laws of Indiana, 1895, 375.
                  
                     32
                            Laws of Indiana, 1897, 176.
                  
                     33
                            Laws of Indiana, 1897, 253-4.
               
                     be added imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six
                        months.34
            
            The next year brought forth still another law relating to regulation. This law prevented anyone or
                    any company from keeping a saloon or other place where intoxicating liquors might be sold within one
                    mile of any national or state military home or army post. The penalty for not observing this law was
                    a fine ranging from one hundred dollars to one thousand and imprisonment in the county jail for not
                    less than ten nor more than thirty days.35
            
            In 1905 the whole liquor situation was revolutionized by the passage of the Moore liquor law. It
                    embodied mainly a revision of the Nicholson law of 1895. It provided that after proper application
                    had been made for a license should a remonstrance signed by a majority of the legal voters of any
                    township or ward in a city situated in the said county be filed with the county auditor three days
                    before the regular meeting of the board of county commissioners, it was unlawful for the
                    commissioners to grant the applicant a license during the period of two years from the date of the
                    filing of the remonstrance. The big change took place in the following. If such a remonstrance were
                    made against all applicants then it was unlawful for the commissioners to grant a license to any
                    applicant during the two years after that date. The form of a remonstrance against a particular
                    person was as follows: 
                        State of Indiana, county of 
                                Kosciusko
                            , as: To the honorable board of commissioners of the said county:
                        We, the undersigned, legal voters in the township of Harrison (or third ward in the city of 
                                Warsaw
                            ), in said county and state, hereby respectfully represent that we are opposed
                            to the granting of a license to John A. Brown who has given notice of his intention to apply
                            therefore, for the sale of intoxicating liquors in said township or ward.
                    
            
            The form which was to be used for any and all applicants was as follows: 
                        State of Indiana, county of Grant, ss: To the honorable board of commissioners of said
                            county:
                        We, the undersigned, legal voters in the township of Harrison (or third ward in the City of 
                                Marion
                            ), in the county and state aforesaid do hereby respectfully represent that we
                            are opposed to the traffic in intoxicating 
                        
                           34
                                    Laws of Indiana, 1901, 305.
                        
                           35
                                    Laws of Indiana, 1903, 383.
                     
                             liquors and we hereby object to the granting of a
                            license to any person for the sale of intoxicating liquors in the said township (or
                                ward).36
                  
                    
            
            In addition to this other minor acts appeared during the session. Anyone who adulterated liquors in
                    any manner was liable to a fine of ten to one hundred dollars.37 Another section
                    of the same act provided that anyone convicted of using any poison in the manufacture of liquor
                    should be fined not to exceed five hundred dollars and imprisoned in the state prison for not less
                    than one nor more than seven years.38 Still another section provided that anyone
                    found in a state of intoxication should be fined not to exceed five dollars for the first offense,
                    not to exceed twenty-five dollars for the second offense, and not more than one hundred dollars for
                    the third offense. To the last might be added five to thirty days imprisonment, disfranchisement,
                    and incapability to hold office.39 The next section provides a fine of not less
                    than ten nor more than one hundred dollars and imprisonment of not less than thirty days nor more
                    than a year for persons convicted of selling, giving or bartering any intoxicating liquors to any
                    person at that time in a state of intoxication. In addition to this, disfranchisement and being
                    rendered incapable of holding office might be added.40 Selling to an habitual
                    drunkard was an equal offense except that the minimum fine was fifty dollars instead of ten.41 When anyone sold liquors to any person under the age of twenty-one they might
                    be fined not less than twenty nor more than one hundred dollars.42 Besides these
                    provisions there were a few others; misrepresenting the age to obtain liquor, furnishing liquor to a
                    prisoner, keeping a disorderly shop, selling on Sunday and legal holidays, druggists selling on
                    Sunday and legal holidays, selling or trading near a camp meeting, or having a saloon within one
                    mile of a soldiers' home. All of these were made crimes punishable by fines ranging from
                    ten to one hundred dollars, to which could be 
                  
                     36
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 7, 8.
                  
                     37
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 714.
                  
                     38
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 715.
                  
                     39
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 720.
                  
                     40
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 720.
                  
                     41
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 721.
                  
                     42
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 721.
               
                     added imprisonment in the county jail of ten to sixty days.43
            
            But this did not suffice and the question came up again in 1907. This time it was a revision of the
                    old Baxter law of 1873. The major part of these changes read: 
                        Any person not being licensed under the laws of the state of Indiana who shall sell or
                            barter, directly or indirectly, any spirituous, vinous or malt liquors in less quantities
                            than five gallons at a time, or who shall sell or barter, directly or indirectly, any
                            spirituous, vinous or malt liquors to be drunk, or suffered to be drunk in his house,
                            outhouse, garden, or appurtenances thereto belonging, shall be deemed guilty of a
                            misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not less than fifty nor
                            more than one hundred dollars for the first offense.
                     and not less than one hundred nor more than five hundred dollars, to which might be added
                    imprisonment from thirty days to six months, for the second and subsequent offenses. In addition to
                    this were many minor clauses especially designed to aid the enforcement of the above.44 All railroad companies which permitted liquors to be sold on any of their cars had to
                    pay annually to the state one thousand dollars to obtain a license to sell. In case they failed to
                    pay the said sum the auditor of the state assessed against them the above amount plus fifty percent
                    as a penalty and then in case of non-payment action might be brought against the railroad by the
                    attorney for the state.45 Another act similar to this revision of the Baxter law
                    was passed during the year. It was practically the same with the exception that it did not mention
                    any specified amount that might be sold and applied only to persons attempting to carry on a liquor
                    trade without a license.46 Still another act provided that druggists might sell
                    in quantities of not less than one quart on a prescription by a reputable active physician. Another
                    act the same year made all names attached to a remonstrance legal without further proof. The mere
                    fact that they were attached was prima facie evidence 
                  
                     43
                            Laws of Indiana, 1905, 583. In case of establishing a saloon within one
                            mile of a Soldiers' Home the fine ranged from one hundred to one thousand dollars
                            to which was added from ten to thirty days in the county jail.
                  
                     44
                            Laws of Indiana, 1907, 27-33.
                  
                     45
                            Laws of Indiana, 1907, 658-9.
                  
                     46
                            Laws of Indiana, 1907, 698-90.
               
                     that they were bona fide legal voters of the
                    township or ward as provided by the law.47
            
            The agitation had become quite strong by this time. Meetings were held all over the state; petitions
                    were sent to the General Assembly as often as they met; and public sentiment had again reached the
                    pinnacle. Because of these movements one of the most significant acts of the whole struggle-the
                    County Local Option law as brought forth by the legislature during their special session of
                    1908-took place. Called together by Governor Hanley for the express purpose of passing this bill the
                    legislature, after considerable debate, and delay, did make it a law. It provided that whenever a
                    petition had been signed by not less than twenty per cent of the aggregate vote of the said county,
                    and then filed with the auditor of the county, the board of commissioners at their next regular
                    session should order a special election to be held in not less than twenty nor more than thirty
                    days. These elections were to be held at the regular places for voting after ten days'
                    notice had been given. The form of the above petition was as follows: 
                        PETITION FOR LOCAL OPTION ELECTION
                        To the Board of Commissioners of the County of
                        We, the undersigned, legal voters ofcounty, state of Indiana, would respectfully
                            petition that an election be held to determine whether the sale of intoxicating liquors as a
                            beverage shall be prohibited in said county.48
                  
                        NameAddress
                    
            
            When the time for the election came the ballots were to be furnished to the voters in the following
                        form:
                        Yes
                        SHALL THE SALE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS AS A BEVERAGE BE PROHIBITED?
                        No
                    
            
            
               
                  47 Acts of 1907, 281.
               
                  48
                        Laws of Indiana, Special Session, 1908, 4-5. No voter could sign his name
                        after the petition had been filed, neither could he withdraw his name after the petition had
                        been filed. The aggregate vote was determined by the number of votes cast in the county for the
                        secretary of state at the last election preceding the local option election.
            
            
            All votes marked with a cross in the square containing the word "yes" were to be
                    counted in favor of prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors, and likewise all those marked in
                    the square containing the word "no" were to be counted in favor of no
                        prohibition.49 Other provisions for the election machinery were made but
                    they were much the same as those of the general elections and need not be given.
            This law seemed to work admirably in spite of the fact that there was considerable criticism. County
                    after county went dry until only the strongholds of intemperance remained. But with the change of
                    legislature in 1911 came a revision of the work. After some slight amendments in the wording and
                    phrasing of the county local option law the General Assembly of this year repealed the entire act.
                    This was replaced by a law similar in every respect to the 1908 law except that the township and
                    ward was made the unit instead of the county. So near were they alike that a re-statement of the
                    1911 law is not necessary.50
            
            But the public was not satisfied with the new act. After having experienced something better they
                    were not willing to return to a law that seemed to them less efficient and less 
                  
                     49 After an election had been held no subsequent election could be
                            held in that county for at least a period of two years from the date of the last preceding
                            election. When a majority were in favor of prohibition then the county was to go dry at the
                            end of ninety days from the date of the election. This act did not repeal any part of the
                            act of 1895 or the act of 1905. The bill was introduced by Senator Cox. Those who voted
                                in favor of it in the Senate were as follows: Beardsley, Bland, Bowser, Ganiard,
                                Goodwine, Hanna, Hawkins, Kimbrough, Kirkman, Kittinger, Kling, Lane, McCallum,
                                Mattingly, Mock, Moore of 
                                    Fayette
                                , Moore of 
                                    Putnam
                                , Orndorf, Parks of Marshal, Pearson, Pilser, Roemler, Springer, Stephenson,
                                Strange, Wickwire, Wood of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                . Total, 32.
                            Those who voted against it were as follows: Benz, Bingham, Durre, Gonnerman, Hugg,
                                Kistler, Law, McDowell, Moss, Parks of Clark, Paterson, Ranks Shafer, Slack,
                                Stotsenburg, Tyndall and Wood of Jackson. Total, 17. Senate Journal, 1908, pp. 66-7.
                                Senate Journal also reported it as passing the House, 108.
                  
                  
                     50
                            Laws of Indiana, 1911, 363-70. This bill was introduced by Senator
                            Proctor. Those voting in favor of the township unit were as follows: Akin, Beal, Carelton,
                            Clark, Curtis, Durre, Farlow, Hauck, Jackson, Kistler, LaMont, Long, Farrell, Fleming, Gers,
                            Grube, Greenwell, Harian, Netterville, Parks, Powers, Proctor, Royse, Shively, Stotsenburg,
                            Sullivan, Trautman, Traylor. Total 28. Those opposed to it was as follows: Brady,
                                Crumpacker, Gavit, Halleck, Hanna, Hibberd, Hunt, Kane, Kimmel, Lambert, Moore, McCarty,
                                Patts, Sexson, Strange, White, Wood. Total, 17. Senate-Journal 1911,
                                1984.
                            It passed the House by a vote of fifty-eight to thirty-three. House Journal
                                    all, 1703.
                  
               
                     democratic than the one of 1908. Consequently more agitation
                    and more legislation took place. In 1913 some slight changes took place, but these were not
                    far-reaching in consequence, so only their general nature will be given. One act was passed
                    prohibiting the drinking of intoxicating liquors or allowing them to be drunk upon any railroad
                    locomotive, passenger coach, interurban car, street car, or vehicle commonly used for the
                    transportation of passengers, or upon any common carrier, or in or about any railroad depot,
                    station, ticket office, waiting room or platform. Penalties for the violation of this act were
                        provided.51
            
            Another act amending the one of 1911 was passed. It declared that no license or any renewal thereof
                    should be granted or issued for a greater or less period than one year Some minor provisions were
                    also incorporated in this act, but they were inconsequential.52
            
            Still another act provided for the license fee to be refunded should the supreme court decide that
                    through no fault of the licensee the money had been paid and the license illegally granted. This
                    usually applied where the board of commissioners had no right to issue a license.53 Two other minor provisions concerning the application by a receiver for a saloon to
                    transfer a license, and preventing the prosecuting attorney or his deputy from representing an
                    applicant for a license, were passed during the year.54
            
            In 1915 the act for refunding the license fee was slightly amended. The sense of the law was not
                    changed, but some few revisions in the wording took place.55
            
            And yet the century-old problem had not been solved. It had only been juggled around from one year to
                    the next, from one party to the other much the same as a juggler plays with his implements of
                    amusement. Something must be done. Public opinion seemed ripe for the passage of a prohibitory law,
                    but so had it been on other occasions. Before the beginning of the legislative assembly of 1917,
                    however, a great 
                  
                     51
                            Laws of Indiana, 1913, 29. This did not apply to any train that carried
                            with it a licensed buffet or dining car.
                  
                     52
                            Laws of Indiana, 1913, 322.
                  
                     53
                            Laws of Indiana, 1913, 410.
                  
                     54
                            Laws of Indiana, 1913, 627, 738.
                  
                     55
                            Laws of Indiana, 1915, 20.
               
                     agitation began to be manifest throughout the state. The
                    Anti-Saloon league had been active here since 1898, the W. C. T. U. had a firmer hold on the
                    convictions of people than ever before, and the Indiana Dry Federation came into existence late in
                    1916. The fever of enthusiasm ran high. Demonstrations of all kinds were held, and with these
                    outward manifestations went earnest and serious work beneath the surface. Both the anti-liquor and
                    the liquor forces realized that this was to be a desperate struggle and both made preparation
                    accordingly.
            Because of the centralization of their forces the temperance people were, for the first time in the
                    history of the whole struggle, placed on equal footing with the saloon element. With the state
                    awaiting in breathless expectation, the 1917 session of the legislature opened. Before the end of
                    the first month a bill intended to prohibit forever the use of intoxicating liquors as a beverage
                    was introduced and the fight was on.
            Because of its importance the substance of the bill as it was finally passed will be given here:
                        
                        After the second day of April, 1918, it shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture,
                            sell, barter, exchange, give away, furnish or otherwise dispose of any liquors except as in
                            this act provided.56
                  
                    
            
            Some of the exceptions are those that allowed men already in possession of properly bonded liquor to
                    ship the remainder to other states allowing the sale; another action allowed the manufacture for
                    domestic use of wine, cider, vinegar or other non-intoxicating drinks for private use; the
                    manufacture of pure grain alcohol for medicinal, scientific, or mechanical purposes is also allowed,
                    wine for sacramental purposes is provided for; wholesale druggists are allowed to sell in quantities
                    of not less than one gallon pure grain alcohol for hospital or other medical purposes; a man in his
                    own home may give guests intoxicating drinks providing his home is not used as a public resort of
                    any kind; and a druggist may sell intoxicating liquors on a prescription by a reputable physician.
                    Other minor provisions dealing with definitions, proper application for sales, unlawful distribution
                    by club house members and prohibiting the advertisement of intoxicating liquors are included. 
                  
                     56
                            Laws of Indiana, 1917, 15-34.
               
                     All of these clauses have provisions for penalties in case of
                    violation.
            Persons who violate this law or any part of it are subject to a fine of one hundred to five hundred
                    dollars, to which is added a jail sentence of thirty days to six months. For the second offense the
                    fine ranges from two hundred to five hundred with a jail sentence of sixty days to six months. For
                    all subsequent offenses they are liable to the latter penalty. The penalties for the different
                    clauses have been mentioned above.57
            
            While this bill was under discussion the dry forces of the entire state were especially active. The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier on January 23 stated that over four hundred thousand persons by petition
                    asked the House to pass the prohibition law. Of these two hundred fifty thousand were voters, the
                    remainder women. The Indiana Dry Federation presented three hundred thousand of them while the
                    Anti-Saloon league presented the remaining hundred thousand. Besides these petitions W. J. Bryan
                    spoke in Tomlinson Hall to one of the largest and most enthusiastic audiences that ever greeted him
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "dry" demonstrations took place daily, almost hourly, in the state
                    house, on the streets and in the homes; pictures and cartoons appeared in all of the newspapers of
                    the state while the battle was in progress; and "dry" propaganda was spread about
                    everywhere. As a result of all of these demonstrations the bill passed the House by a vote of
                    seventy to twenty-eight, and the Senate by a vote of thirty-eight to eleven.58
                    Later it was 
                  
                     57
                            Laws of Indiana, 1917, 15-34.
                  
                     58 The prohibitory bill was introduced by F. E. Wright of 
                                Randolph County
                            . It passed the House on January 25, 1917. Those voting in favor of it in the
                            House were as follows: Adams, Alldredge, Anderson, Baker, Behmer, Blackmore, Bonham, Buller,
                            Burtt, Clapp, Coggins, Cook, Cooper, Curry, Davis of Jay, Dilworth, Douglas, Duffey, Durham,
                            Dynes, Eikenberry, Gentry, Green, Crube, Harker, Harmon, Henke, Hessong, Hoffman, Hougham,
                            Houghton, Jacoby, Jameson, Jinnett, Johnson of Grant, Johnson of Pulaski and White, Kessler,
                            Krieg, Kuhiman, Lafuze, McClaskey, McGonagle, McNagy, Mason, Mendenhall, Miles, Miller of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             and 
                                Warren
                            , Miller of Howard, Miltenberger, 
                                Montgomery
                            , Moore, Mosier, Myers, Read, Robertson, Ryan, Scott, Sipe, Woods, Wood, Wright
                            of 
                                Clay
                            , Wright of 
                                Randolph
                            , Yoder and Mr. Speaker. Total, 70. Those opposing the measure were as
                                follows: Bartel, Bayer, Cravens. Cronin, Davis of Lake, Downey, Eisterhold, Geddes,
                                Gorski, Griffin. Habermel, Harris, Haslanger, Hepler, Hyland, Kimmel, Mushett,
                                O'Leary, Osborn, Overmeyer, Sambor, Southard, Tinker, Turner, Waltz,
                                Westfall, Westrick. Total, 28. House Journal, 1917, 157-8.
                            In the Senate the following named men voted for the bill: Armstrong,
                  
               
                     signed by the governor and became a law, which took effect
                    April 2, 1918. Up to the present time it has worked admirably; it will probably continue to do so.
                        
                  
                            Beardsley, Bracken, Chambers, Culbertson, Dobyns, Dorrell, Elsner, English, Fleming,
                                Gemmill, Grant, Hagerty, Hemphill, Hudgins, Humphreys, Jackson, James, Laney, Lanz,
                                McConaha, McCray, McKinley, Maston, Mercer, Metzger, Negley, 
                                    Norman
                                , Porter, Reidelbach, Retherford, Robinson, Signs, Simmons, Smith, Spaan,
                                Summers and White. Total, 38.
                            Those who were opposed to the bill were as follows: Bird, Erskine, Hazen, Hirsch, Kinder,
                                Kolsem, Nejdl, Reser, Thornton, 
                                    Van
                                 Auken, Wolfson. Total, 11. Senate Journal, 1917, 450-1.
                            Another act the same year provided that no license or extension of license to sell
                                intoxicating liquor, retail or wholesale, in the state of Indiana prior to April 2, 1918
                                should be granted to any person except such person be a present holder of such a license
                                or should become the holder of such a license by a lawful transfer or by order of the
                                court.
                            Another section of the same law pro-rated the license fee for the time from January first
                                to April second, 1918. It was made effective at once.
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            The Savage Allies of The Northwest
            By ELMORE BARCE, Folwer, Ind.
            GENERAL VIEW OF THE TRIRES
            The waters of the 
                        Ohio
                     "moving majestically along, noiseless as the foot of time, and as
                        resistless,"1 sweep from the junction of the Monongahela and
                    Allegheny to the waters of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , a distance of nine hundred miles, enclosing in their upper courses the island of
                    Blannerhassett, below the mouth of the Little Kanawha, the island of Zane, near Wheeling, and
                    leaping in a descent of twenty-two feet in a distance of two miles the Falls opposite the present
                    city of 
                        Louisville
                    . The lofty eminences which crowned its banks, the giant forests of oak and maple which
                    everywhere approached its waters, the vines of the frost grape that wound their sinuous arms around
                    the topmost branches of its tallest trees2 presented a spectacle that filled the
                    soul of the traveler at every graceful turn of the river with awe and wonder. In the spring a
                    wonderful transformation took place in the brown woods. There suddenly appeared on every hand the
                    opening flowers of the red bud, whose whole top appeared as one mass of red blossoms, interspersed
                    with the white and pale-yellow blossoms of the dogwood, or cornus florida. Thus
                    there extended "in every direction, at the same time, red, white and yellow flowers; at a
                    distance each tree resembling in aspect so many large bunches of flowers everywhere dispersed in the
                        woods."3 This was the Belle Riviere, or the beautiful river of the
                    French, which they long and valiantly sought to hold against the advancing tides of English traders
                    and land hunters. This was that glorious gate to the west, through which floated the rafts and
                    keel-boats of the American settlers who took possession of the great northwest.
            But notwithstanding the beauty and grandeur of this stream, there was not, at the close of the French
                    and Indian 
                  
                     1 Atwater History of 
                                    Ohio
                                , 10, 11.
                  
                     2 Atwater History of 
                                    Ohio
                                , 76.
                  
                     3 Atwater History of 
                                    Ohio
                                , 78.
               
                     War, on the tenth of February, 1763, a single habitation of
                    either white man or savage on either the 
                        Ohio
                     or Indiana side, or on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of this river. Says General William Henry Harrison: 
                        The beautiful 
                                Ohio
                             rolled its 'amber tide' until it paid its tribute to the
                            Father of Waters, through an unbroken solitude. Its banks were without a town or village, or
                            even a single cottage, the curling smoke of whose chimney would give the promise of comfort
                            and refreshment to a weary traveler.4
                  
                    
            
            The reason of this solitude is apparent.
            To the south of the 
                        Ohio
                     lay the "Dark and Bloody Ground" of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; "Dark" because of its vast and almost impenetrable forests;
                    "Bloody", because of the constant savage warfare waged within its limits by roving
                    bands of Miami, Shawnees, Cherokees, and other tribes who resorted thither in pursuit of game.
                        
                        The proud face of creation here presented itself, without the disguise of art. No wood had
                            been felled; no field cleared; no human habitation raised; even the red man of the forest,
                            had not put up his wigwam of poles and bark for habitation. But that mysterious Being, whose
                            productive power, we call Nature, ever bountiful, and ever great, had not spread out this
                            replete, and luxurious pasture, without stocking it with numerous flocks and herds; nor were
                            their ferocious attendants, who prey upon them, wanting, to fill up the circle of created
                            beings. Here was seen the timid deer; the towering elk; the fleet stag; the surly bear; the
                            crafty fox; the ravenous wolf; the devouring panther; the insidious wild eat; the haughty
                            buffalo, besides innumerable other creatures, winged, four-footed, or creeping.5
                  
                    
            
            This was the common hunting ground of the wild men of the forest. None took exclusive possession,
                    because none dared. The 
                        Ohio
                     was a common highway of the Indian tribes, and while their warpaths and trails crossed
                    it at frequent intervals, none were so bold as to exercise an exclusive dominion over it.
            The vast territory to the northwest of the river 
                        Ohio
                     covering more than two hundred and forty-four thousand square miles of the
                    earth's surface, and comprising what are now the states of Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Ohio,
                            Michigan
                and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , was, 
                  
                     4 William Henry Harrison, A Discourse on the Aborigines
                                of the Ohio Valley, 23.
                  
                     5 H. Marshall, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                , 5.
               
                     in the year 1763, inhabited by the most ferocious and warlike
                    tribes of savages, with the exception of the Iroquois, in North America. Chief among them were the
                    Wyandots, Miamis, Shawnees, Delawares, Ottawas, Chippewas and Potawatomi. These were the seven
                    tribes known in after years as the western confederacy, who fought so long and bitterly against the
                    government of the 
                        United States
                    , and who were at last conquered by the arms and genius of General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     in the year 1794.6
            
            The Ottawas, Chippewas and Potawatomi formed a sort of loose confederacy known as the Three Fires,
                    and Massas, a Chippewa chief, so referred to them at the treaty of Greenville.7
            
            The Miamis, the most powerful of the confederates, were subdivided into the Eel Rivers, the Weas, and
                    the Piankashaws. The Kickapoos, a small tribe which lived on the Sangamon, and the 
                        Vermillion
                     of the 
                        Wabash
                    , were associated generally with the Potawatomi, and were always allies of the English.
                    The Winnebagoes of 
                        Wisconsin
                     were of the linquistic family of the Sioux; were generally associated with the
                    confederates against the Americans, and many of their distinguished warriors fought against General
                    Harrison at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . The decadent tribes known as the 
                        Illinois
                     did not play a conspicuous part in the history of the north west.
            While the limits of these various tribes may not be fixed with precision and boundary lines were
                    often confused, still there were certain well recognized portions of the northwest that were under
                    the exclusive control of certain nations, and these nations were extremely jealous of their rights,
                    as shown by the anger and resentment of the Miamis at what they termed the encroachment of the
                    Potawatomi at the treaty of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , in 1809.8
            
            The Wyandots, for instance, were the incontestable owners of the country between the Cuyahoga and the
                    Auglaize, in the present state of 
                        Ohio
                    , their domain extending as far south as the divide between, the waters of the Sandusky
                    river and the 
                  
                     6 William Henry Harrison, A Discourse on the Aborigines
                                of the Ohio Valley, 37.
                  
                     7
                            American State Papers. Indian Affairs. Vol. I, 569-570.
                  
                     8
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XI, 366.
               
                     Scioto, and embracing the southern shore of Lake
                    Erie from Maumee Bay, to the mouth of the Cuyahoga. Large numbers of them were also along
                    the northern shores of Lake Erie, in 
                        Canada
                    .9 Their territory at one time probably extended much farther south
                    toward the 
                        Ohio
                    , touching the lands of the Miamis on the west, but certainly embracing parts of the
                    Muskingum country, to which they had invited the ancient Delawares, respectfully addressed by them
                    as "grandfathers".10 Intermingled with the Wyandots south of
                        Lake Erie were scattered bands of Ottawas, but they were tenants of the
                    soil by sufferance, and not as of right.
            The Miamis have been described by General Harrison as the most extensive land owners in the
                    northwest. He stands on record as saying: 
                        Their territory embraced all of 
                                Ohio
                            , west of the Scioto; all of Indiana, and that part of 
                                Illinois
                            , south of the Fox river, and 
                                Wisconsin
                            , on which frontier they were intermingled with the Kickapoos and some other
                            small tribes.11
                  
                    
            
            What Harrison describes as the most beautiful portion of this country, that along the 
                        Ohio
                    , was unoccupied, but in the latter part of the eighteenth century the Miamis and
                    Piankashaws granted permission to the Delawares to occupy portions of the country between the
                        Ohio and White rivers.12 Harrison
                    was probably right as to the ancient and original bounds of this tribe, but Little Turtle, their
                    most famous chieftain, said at the treaty of Greenville, in 1795: 
                        It is well known by all my brothers present, that my forefather kindled the first fire at 
                                Detroit
                            ; from thence, he extended his lines to the headwater of Scioto; from thence, to
                            its mouth; from thence, down the 
                                Ohio
                            , to the mouth of the 
                                Wabash
                            , and from thence to 
                                Chicago
                            , on lake 
                                Michigan
                            .13
                  
                    
            
            The truth is that the ancient demesne of the Miamis was much curtailed by the irruption of three
                    tribes from the north in about the year 1765, the Sacs and Foxes, the Kickapoos and the Potawatomi,
                    who conquered the old remnants of the 
                        Illinois
                     tribes in the buffalo prairies and divided their country 
                  
                     9 W. H. Harrison, A borigines of the Ohio
                                    Valley, 22.
                  
                     10 Bureau of American Ethnology, Handbook of American
                                Indians. I, 385.
                  
                     11 W. H. Harrison, A borigines of the Ohio
                                    Valley, 23.
                  
                     12 Bureau of American Ethnology, Handbook of American
                                Indians. I, 385.
                  
                     13
                            American State Papers. Indian Affairs. I, 570, 571.
               
                     among themselves. Says Hiram Beckwith, in speaking of the
                    Potawatomi: 
                        Always on friendly terms with the Kickapoos, with whom they lived in mixed villages, they
                            joined the latter and the Sacs and Foxes in the exterminating war upon the 
                                Illinois
                             tribes, and afterwards obtained their allotment of the despoiled domain.14
                  
                    
            
            The Potawatomi advancing by sheer force of numbers, rather than by conquest, finally appropriated a
                    large part of the lands in the present state of Indiana, north of the 
                        Wabash
                    , commingling with the Kickapoos at the south and west, and advancing their camps as far
                    down as Pine creek. The Miamis were loud in their remonstrances against this trespassing and
                    denounced the Pottawatomi as squatters, "never having had any lands of their own, and being
                    mere intruders upon the prior estates of others",15 but the Potawatomi
                    were not dispossessed and were afterwards parties to all treaties with the 
                        United States
                     government for the sale and disposal of said lands. The Miamis also lost a part of
                    their lands on the lower west side of the 
                        Wabash
                     to the Kickapoos. Pushing eastward from the neighborhood of Peoria, the Kickapoos
                    established themselves on the 
                        Vermillion
                    , where they had a village on both sides of that river at its confluence with the main
                    stream. They were, says Hiram Beckwith, 
                        Greatly attached to the 
                                Vermillion
                             and its tributaries, and Governor Harrison found it a difficult task to
                            reconcile them to ceding it away.16
                  
                    
            
            To the last, however, the Miamis remained the undisputed lords and masters of most of the territory
                    watered by the two Miamis of 
                        Ohio
                     and by the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries down to the 
                        Ohio
                    . The French traders, officers and agents, passing from 
                        Detroit
                     and Lake Erie down the Maumee, or Miami of the Lakes, came to
                    Kekionga, or the "great Miami village" at the junction of the Saint Marys and the 
                        St. Joseph
                    , crossed over the portage of eight miles to the Little 
                        Wabash
                     and thence descended the 
                        Wabash
                     to Ouiatenon, the post at 
                        Vincennes
                     and the whole basin of the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    . In a day when the means of communication between distant points in the 
                  
                     14
                            Fergus Historical Series. IV, No. 27, 174.
                  
                     15
                            Fergus Historical Series. IV, No. 27, 174.
                  
                     16
                            Fergus Historical Series. IV, No. 27, 125.
               
                     northwest was almost wholly by canoes, a central position
                    midway on one of the most important trade routes used by voyageurs and coureurs de bois in passing to and from the main trading point of the French at 
                        Detroit
                    , was of the utmost importance, and the tribe of savages who commanded the valleys along
                    that route were apt to be assiduously courted by all nations who desired to control the highly
                    remunerative fur trade of that day.17
            
            The Miami village of Kekionga was also of great strategical value from the military standpoint. To
                    occupy this position went far towards commanding the whole Indian country. The French early
                    established themselves there, and later the English, and when the Americans after the Revolution
                    took dominion over the northwest and found it necessary to conquer the tribes of the 
                        Wabash
                     and their allies, one of the first moves of the 
                        United States
                     government was to attack the villages at this place, break up the line of their
                    communication with the British at 
                        Detroit
                    , and overawe the Miamis by the establishment of a strong military post. In the
                    instructions from thesecretary of war to General St. Clair, in the year 1791, the following occurs:
                        
                        You will commence your march for the Miami village, in order to establish a strong and
                            permanent military post at that place. The post at the Miami village is intended for awing
                            and curbing the Indians in that quarter, and as the only preventive for future hostilities.
                            It ought, therefore, to be rendered secure against all attempts and insults by the Indians.
                            The garrison which should be stationed there ought not only to be sufficient for the defense
                            of the place, but always to afford a detachment of five or six hundred men, either to
                            chastise any of the 
                                Wabash
                            , or other hostile Indians, or to secure any convoy of provisions. The
                            establishment of said post is considered as an important object of the campaign, and is to
                            take place in all events.18
                  
                    
            
            St. Clair was defeated, but when General 
                        Wayne
                     won the battle of Fallen Timbers in the valley of the Maumee, in 1794, and established
                    and garrisoned a post at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , he not only put an effectual curb upon the British influence in the Wabash
                        valley, but he caused the Little Turtle and the principal chiefs of the Miamis to
                    retire from the British council fires and sue for peace.
            
               
                  17 James R. Albach, Annals of West, 80.
               
                  18 Dillon History of Indiana. I, 280-281.
            
            
            
               
                        Wayne
                     insisted at the peace with the Miamis and their allies, at Greenville, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1795, that a tract six miles square around the newly established post at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     should be ceded to the 
                        United States
                    , together with "one piece two miles square on the Wabash
                    river, at the end of the portage from the Miami of the Lake (Maumee), and about eight
                    miles westward from Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ."19
            
            This proposal was stoutly resisted by the Little Turtle, who among other things said: 
                        The next place you pointed to, was the Little river, and said you wanted two miles square at
                            that place. This is a request that our fathers, the French or British, never made of us; it
                            was always ours. This carrying place has heretofore proved, in a great degree, the
                            subsistence of your younger brothers. That place has brought to us, in the course of one
                            day, the amount of one hundred dollars. Let us both own this place and enjoy in common the
                            advantage it affords.20
                  
                    
            
            Despite this argument, however, 
                        Wayne
                     prevailed, and the control of Kekionga and the portage passed to the government; that
                    ancient Kekionga described by Little Turtle as 
                        the Miami village, that glorious gate, which your younger brothers had the happiness to own,
                            and through which all the good words of our chiefs had to pass from the north to the south,
                            and from the east to the west.21
                  
                    
            
            Returning to the Potawatomi, it will be seen that this tribe, which originally came from the
                    neighborhood of Green Bay, was probably from about the middle of the eighteenth century, in
                    possession of most of the country from the Milwaukee river in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , around the south shore of Lake Michigan, to Grand
                    River, "extending southwest over a large part of northern 
                        Illinois
                    , east across 
                        Michigan
                     to Lake Erie, and south in Indiana to the 
                        Wabash
                    ."22 The Sun, or Kee-sass, a Potawatomi of the Wabash, said
                    at the treaty of Greenville, that his tribe was composed of three divisions; those of the
                        river Huron, in 
                        Michigan
                    , those of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of Lake Michigan, and the bands of the 
                        Wabash
                    . In the year 1765, George Croghan, Indian agent of the British government, found the
                    Potawatomi in villages on the north side of the 
                  
                     19
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large. Indian Treaties, 1856, page 50.
                  
                     20
                            American State Papers. Indian Affairs. I, 576.
                  
                     21
                            American State Papers. Indian Affairs. I, 576.
                  
                     22 Bureau of American Ethnology, Handbook of American
                                Indians, I, part two, 290.
               
                    
                    
                        Wabash
                     at Ouiatenon, with a Kickapoo village in close proximity, while the Weas had a village
                    on the south side of the river.23 This would indicate that the Potawatomi had
                    already pushed the Miami tribe south of the 
                        Wabash
                     and had taken possession of the country.
            Far away to the north and on both shores of Lake Superior, dwelt the Chippewas, or Ojibways, famed
                    for their physical strength and prowess and living in their conical wigwams, with poles stuck in the
                    ground in a circle and covered over with birch bark or grass mats. The Jesuit Fathers early found
                    them in possession of the Sault Ste Marie and when General 
                        Wayne
                     at the treaty of Greenville, reserved the post of Michilimackinac and certain lands on
                    the main between Lake Michigan and Lake Huron, Mash-i-pinash-i-wish, one of the
                    principal Chippewa chieftains, voluntarily made the 
                        United States
                     a present of the island De Bois Blanch, at the eastern entrance of the straits of
                    Mackinac, for their use and accommodation, and was highly complimented by the general for his
                    generous gift.24 A reference to the maps of Thomas G. Bradford, of 1838, shows
                    the whole upper peninsula of 
                        Michigan
                     in the possession of the Chippewas, as well as the whole southern and western shores of
                    Lake Superior, and a large portion of northern 
                        Wisconsin
                    .25 One of their principal sources of food supply was wild rice, and
                    the presence of this cereal, together with the plentiful supply of fish, probably accounts for their
                    numbers and strength. In the beginning of the eighteenth century, they expelled the Foxes from
                    northern 
                        Wisconsin
                     and later drove the fierce Sioux beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    .26 They were the undisputed masters of a very extensive domain and
                    held it with a strong and powerful hand. One of their chiefs proudly said to 
                        Wayne
                    : 
                        Your brothers present, of the three fires, are gratified in seeing and hearing you; those who
                            are at home will not experience that pleasure, until you come and live among us; you will
                            then learn our title to that land.27
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  23 James R. Albach, Annals of West, 184.
               
                  24
                        American State Papers. Indian Affairs. I, 577.
               
                  25 Thomas G. Bradford. Atlas of 
                                United States
                            , 1838, 16, 99, 156.
               
                  26 Bureau of American Ethnology. Handbook of American
                            Indians. I, Part I, page 278.
               
                  27
                        American State Papers. Indian Affairs. I. 577.
            
            
            Though far removed from the theatre of the wars of the northwest, they, together with the Ottawas,
                    early came under the British influence, and resisted the efforts of the 
                        United States
                     to subdue the Miamis and their confederate tribes, fighting with the allies against
                    Col. Harmar at the Miami towns, against St. Clair, on the headwaters of the 
                        Wabash
                     and against Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     at Fallen Timbers on the twentieth of August, 1794.28
            
            The rudest of all the tribes of the northwest were the Ottawas, those expert canoe men of the Great
                    Lakes, known to the French as the "traders", because they carried on a large trade
                    and commerce between the other tribes. They seem to have had their original home on Mantoulin
                    island, in Lake Huron, and on the north and south shores of the Georgian bay. Driven by terror of
                    the Iriquois to the region west of Lake Michigan, they later returned to the
                    vicinity of L'Arbe Croche, near the lower end of Lake Michigan, and
                    from thence spread out in all directions. Consulting Bradford's map of 1838 again, the
                    Ottawas are found in the whole northern end of the lower 
                        Michigan
                     peninsula. 
                        Ottawa county
                    , at the mouth of Grand river, would seem to indicate that at one
                    time their towns must have existed in that vicinity, and in fact their possessions are said to have
                    extended as far down the eastern shore of Lake Michigan as the 
                        St. Joseph
                    . To the south and east of these points "their villages alternated with those
                    of their old allies, the Hurons, now called Wyandot, along the shore of lake Erie from 
                        Detroit
                     to the vicinity of Beaver Creek in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ."29 They were parties with the Wyandots and Delawares and
                    other tribes to the treaty at Fort Harmar, 
                        Ohio
                    , at the mouth of the Muskingum in 1789, whereby the Wyandots ceded large tracts of land
                    in the southern part of that state to the 
                        United States
                     government and were granted in turn the possession and occupancy of certain lands to
                    the south of Lake Erie. The 
                        Ottawa
                     title to any land in southern 
                        Ohio
                    , however, is exceedingly doubtful and they were probably admitted as parties to the
                    above treaty in deference to their acknowledged 
                  
                     28 The Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Manuscript. Annotated by Hiram Beckwith. State Library. Pages 81, 84, 85.
                  
                     29 American Bureau of Ethnology. Handbook of American
                                Indians. I, Part 2, 170.
               
                     overlords, the Wyandots. Their long intercourse with the latter
                    tribe, who were the most chivalrous, brave and intelligent of all the tribes, seems to have softened
                    their manners and rendered them less ferocious than formerly. Like the Chippewas, their warriors
                    were of fine physical mould, and Col. William Stanley Hatch, an early historian of 
                        Ohio
                    , in writing of the Shawnees, embraces the following reference to the Ottawas: 
                        As I knew them, (i. e., the Shawnees), they were truly noble specimens of their race,
                            universally of fine athletic forms, and light complexion, none more so, and none appeared
                            their equal, unless it was their tribal relatives, the Ottaways, who adjoined them. The
                            warriors of these tribes were the finest looking Indians I ever saw, and were truly noble
                            specimens of the human family.30
                  
                    
            
            The leading warriors and chieftains of their tribe, however, were great lovers of strong liquor, and
                    Pontiac, the greatest of all the Ottawas, was assassinated shortly after a drunken carousal, and
                    while he was singing the grand medicine songs of his race.31 Opposite the old
                    French town of 
                        Detroit
                     were two Indian villages, one of the Wyandots and another of the Ottawas. These towns
                    were observed by Croghan in 1765. After Braddock's defeat, Colonel James Smith, then a
                    young man and a captive among the Wyandots, was in attendance at the Wyandot village with a party of
                    Indian hunters, who were trading beaver skins for arms, ammunition, blankets and trinkets. Here is
                    his account of what occurred: 
                        At length a trader came to town with French brandy. We purchased a keg of it, and held a
                            council about who was to get drunk, and who was to keep sober, I was invited to get drunk,
                            but I refused the proposal. Then they told me I must be one of those who were to take care
                            of the drunken people. I did not like this, but of the two evils I chose that which I thougt
                            was the least, and fell in with those who were to conceal the arms, and keep every dangerous
                            weapon we could, out of their way, and endeavor, if possible, to keep the drinking club from
                            killing each other, which was a very hard task. Several times we hazarded our own lives, and
                            got ourselves hurt, in preventing them from slaying each other. Before they had finished the
                            keg, near one-third of the town was introduced to this drinking club; they could not pay
                            their part, as they had already disposed of all their skins; but they made no odds, all were
                            welcome to drink.
                        
                     
                        30 Hatch, A Chapter of the History of the War of
                                1812, 92, 93, 94.
                     
                        31 Parkman, Conspiracy of Pontiac, 810.
                  
                        
                        When they were done with this keg, they applied to the traders, and procured a kettle full of
                            brandy at a time, which they divided out with a large wooden spoon-and so they went on and
                            never quit whilst they had a single beaver skin.
                        When the trader had got all our beaver, he moved off to the 
                                Ottawa
                             town, about a mile above the Wiandot town.
                        When the brandy was gone, and the drinking club sober, they appeared much dejected. Some of
                            them were crippled, others badly wounded. A number of the fine new shirts tore, and several
                            blankets burned. A number of squaws were also in this club, and neglected their corn
                            planting.
                        We could now hear the effects of the brandy in the 
                                Ottawa
                             town. They were singing and yelling in the most hideous manner, both night and
                            day; but their frolic ended worse than ours; five Ottawas were killed, and a great many
                                wounded.32
                  
                    
            
            The Winnebagoes, while not listed with the seven confederated tribes who fought General 
                        Wayne
                    , were discovered by the Jesuits in the neighborhood of Green Bay, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and the territory around the Fox and Wisconsin rivers and lake
                    Winnebago has always been identified as the Winnebago country.
            But the wandering Ishmaelites of all the north-west tribes were the Shawnees. Cruel, crafty and
                    treacherous, and allied always with the English, they took a leading part in all the ravages and
                    depredations on the frontiers of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     during the Revolution and led expedition after expedition against the infant
                    settlements of 
                        Kentucky
                    , from the period of the first pioneers in 1775, until 
                        Wayne
                    's victory in 1794. These were the Indians who kept 
                        Boone
                     in captivity, made Simon Kenton run the guantlet, stole thousands of horses in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and who for years attacked the flat boats and keel boats that floated down the 
                        Ohio
                    , torturing their captives by burning at the stake.
            Says General Harrison: 
                        No fact, in relation to the Indian tribes, who have resided on the northwest frontier for a
                            century past, is better known, than that the Shawnees came from 
                                Florida
                             and 
                                Georgia
                             about the middle of the eighteenth century. They passed through 
                                Kentucky
                             (along the Cumberland river) on their way to the 
                                Ohio
                            . But that their passage was rather a rapid one, is proved by these
                            circumstances. Black Hoof, their late 
                        
                           32 An Account of the Remarkable Occurences in the life and
                                    travels of Colonel James Smith. Written by himself. 
                                        Lexington
                                    , 1799. Re-published by Clarke & Co., pages 75, 76, 77.
                     
                             principal chief (with whom I had been acquainted since
                            the Treaty of Greenville), was born in 
                                Florida
                            , before the removal of his tribe. He died at Wapocconata, in this state, only
                            three or four years ago. As I do not know his age, at the time of his leaving 
                                Florida
                            , nor at his death, I am not able to fix with precision the date of the
                            emigration. But it is well known that they were at the town which still bears their name on
                            the 
                                Ohio
                            , (Shawneetown, Ill.) a few miles below the mouth of the 
                                Wabash
                            , some time before the commencement of the Revolutionary war; that they remained
                            there some years before they removed to the Scioto where they were found by Governor
                            Dunmore, in the year 1774. That their removal from 
                                Florida
                             was a matter of necessity, and their progress from thence, a flight, rather
                            than a deliberate march, is evident from their appearance, when they presented themselves
                            upon the 
                                Ohio
                            , and claimed the protection of the Miamis. They are represented by the chiefs
                            of the latter, as well as those of the Delawares, as supplicants for protection, not against
                            the Iriquois, but against the Creeks and Seminoles, or some other southern tribe, who had
                            driven them from 
                                Florida
                            , and they are said to have been literally sans provat et sane
                                culottes.
                     33
                  
                    
            
            Later writers have maintained that while they originally dwelt in the south, that one division of the
                    tribe lived in 
                        South Carolina
                    , while another and more numerous division lived along the Cumberland
                    river and had a large village near the present site of 
                        Nashville
                    . The Cumberland river was known on the early maps preceding the
                    Revolution as the Shawnee river, while the 
                        Tennessee
                     was called the Cherokee river. This Cumberland division is said to
                    have become engaged in war with both the Cherokees and Chickasaws,34 and to have
                    fled to the north to receive the protection of the powerful nations of the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            Notwithstanding the magnanimous conduct of the Miamis, however, they, together with the Wyandots of 
                        Ohio
                    , always regarded the Shawnees with suspicion and as troublemakers. The great chief of
                    the Miamis told Antoine Gamelin at Kekionga in April, 1790, when Gamelin was sent by the governement
                    to pacify the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians, that the Miamis had incurred a bad name on account of mischief done along the 
                        Ohio
                    , but that this was the work of the Shawnees, who, he said, had "a bad
                    heart," and were the "perturbators of all 
                  
                     33 Aborigines of the Ohio Valley. W. H. Harrison.
                            State Library, Pages 29 and 30.
                  
                     34 Bureau of American Ethnology. Handbook of American
                                Indians. I, Part 2, 534, 535.
                  
                     35 Dillon History of Indiana. I, 248.
               
                     the nations."35 To the articles of
                    the treaty at Fort Harmar, in 1789, the following is appended: 
                        That the Wyandots have laid claim to the lands that were granted to the Shawanese, (these
                            lands were along the Miami, in 
                                Ohio
                            ), at the treaty held at the Miami, and have declared, that as the Shawanese
                            have been so restless, and caused so much trouble, both to them and to the 
                                United States
                            , if they will not now be at peace, they will dispossess them, and take the
                            country into their own hands; for that country is theirs of right, and the Shawanese are
                            only living upon it by their permission.36
                  
                    
            
            From the recital of the above facts, it is evident that the Shawnees could never justly claim the
                    ownership of any of the lands north of the 
                        Ohio
                    . That, far from being the rightful sovereigns of the soil, they came to the valleys of
                    the Miamis and Wyandots as refugees from a devastating war, and as supplicants for protection and
                    mercy. This is recognized by the 
                        Quaker
                    , Henry Harvey, who was partial to them and for many years dwelt among them as a
                    missionary. Harvey says that from the accounts of the various treaties to which they were parties,
                    "they had been disinherited altogether, as far as related to the ownership of land
                        anywhere."37 Yet from the lips of the most famous of all
                    theShawnees, came the false but specious reasoning that none of the tribes of the northwest, not
                    even the Miamis who had received and sheltered them, had a right to alienate any of their lands
                    without the common consent of all. 
                        That no single tribe had the right to sell; that the power to sell was not vested in their
                            chief, but must be the act of the warriors in council assembled of all the tribes, as the
                            land belonged to all-no portion of it to any single tribe.38
                  
                    
            
            This doctrine of communistic ownership was advocated by Tecumseh in the face of all the conquests of
                    the Iroquois, in the face of the claim of the Wyandots to much of the domain of the present state of 
                        Ohio
                    , and in the face of all of Little Turtle's claims to the Maumee and the
                        Wabash valleys, founded on long and undisputed occupancy and possession. It
                    never had any authority, either in fact or in history, and moreover, lacked the great and saving
                    grace of originality.
            
               
                  37 Henry Harvey History of the Shawnee Indians, From the
                        Year 1681 to 1854, Inclusive, 164.
               
                  38 John Law, History of 
                                Vincennes
                            , 81.
               
                  39
                        
                            United States
                         Statutes at Large. Indian Treaties, 
                            Boston
                        , 1856, Page 32.
            
            
            The truth is that this Shawnee pretension was based wholly and solely on the arguments of the British
                    agents and officers at 
                        Detroit
                    , who long after the Revolution, retained the frontier posts and forts in the northwest
                    territory contrary to the terms of the treaty of peace of 1783, in order to save the British traders
                    and merchants the valuable traffic in beaver skins and peltries, and to that end, organized the
                    tribes of the northwest into a confederacy to resist the advances of the American settlers into the
                    Indian domain. If these British agents could, as they did in the fall of 1788,39
                    assemble all the tribes in the valley of the Maumee and there have them resolve "that no
                    bargain or sale of any part of these Indian lands would be considered as valid or binding, unless
                    agreed to by general council", then it is plain to see where this doctrine of the common
                    ownership of the Indian lands originated. By pointing to the purchasers of the lands north of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and to the settlers of 
                        Kentucky
                    , the English played on the jealousies of the ignorant savages, alienated their
                    affections from the 
                        United States
                     government, and plied them with arguments to dispute the validity of every treaty,
                    either at Fort Harmar, or elsewhere, whereby the government had acquired the title to any of the
                    Indian lands, no matter how indefeasible the title of the Indian grantors at those treaties had
                    been. When Benjamin Lincoln, Beverly 
                        Randolph
                     and Timothy Pickering, commissioners on behalf of the 
                        United States
                     to make peace with the Indians of the northwest, in the year 1793, reproached Colonel
                    Simcoe, commander of the King's forces, in upper 
                        Canada
                    , with having advised the Indians to make peace with the 
                        United States
                    , "but not to give up any of their lands", Simcoe boldly replied that
                    it was the principle of the British Government, "to unite the American Indians, that all
                    petty jealousies being extinguished, the real wishes of the several tribes may be expressed, and in
                    consequence all the treaties made with them, may have the most complete ratification and universal
                    concurrence," and, "that a jealousy of a contrary conduct in the agents of the 
                        United States
                     appears to him (Simcoe) to have been deeply impressed upon the minds of the
                        confederacy."40
                    
                  
                     39 Dillon History of Indiana, 331.
                  
                     40 Dillon History of Indiana, 332.
               
                     This is the true background and setting of that far famed land
                    policy, originating in the councils of the British Board of Trade whose mercenary motives controlled
                    the English colonial policy, and who were bold enough to attempt to control both the lands and the
                    subjects of an independent nation, and bring on a savage warfare, in order to gain a commercial
                    advantage.
            The savage warriors of the northwest were not formidable in numbers, but they were terrible in their
                    ferocity, their knowledge of wood-craft and their cunning strategy. General Harrison says that for a
                    decade prior to the Treaty of Greenville, the allied tribes could not at any time have brought into
                    the field over three thousand warriors. This statement is corroborated by Col. James Smith, who had
                    an intimate knowledge of the Wyandots and other tribes, and who says: 
                        I am of the opinion that from Braddock's war, until the present time (1799), there
                            never were more than three thousand Indians at any time, in arms against us, west of Fort
                            Pitt, and frequently not half that number.41
                  
                    
            
            Constant warfare with the colonies and the 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     hunting-shirt men had greatly reduced their numbers, but above all the terribel ravages
                    of smallpox, which they had no means of combating, had carried away thousands and reduced the ranks
                    of their valiant armies.
            Woe to the general, however who lightly estimated their fighting qualities, or thought that these
                    "rude and undisciplined" savages, as they were sometimes called, could be met and
                    overpowered by the tacties of the armies of Europe or America! They were, says Harrison,
                    "a body of the finest light-troops in the world,"42 and this
                    opinion is corroborated by Theodore Roosevelt, who had some first-hand knowledge of Indian fighters.
                    The Wyandots and Miamis, especially, as well as other western bands, taught the males of their
                    tribes the arts of war from their earliest youth. When old enough to hear arms, they were
                    disciplined to act in concert, to obey punctually all commands, and cheerfully unite to put them
                        
                  
                     41 James Smith, An Account of the Remarkable Occurences
                                in the Life and Travels of Col. James Smith. Written by himself. 154.
                  
                     42 W. H. Harrison, A borigines of the Ohio
                                    Valley, 38.
               
                     into immediate execution. Each warrior was taught to observe
                    carefully the motion of his right-hand companion, so as to communicate any sudden movement or
                    command from the right to the left. Thus advancing in perfect accord, they could march stealthily
                    and abreast through the thick woods and underbrush, in scattered order, without losing the
                    conformation of their ranks or creating disorder. These maneuvres could be executed slowly or as
                    fast as the warriors could run. They were also disciplined to form a circle, a semi-circle or a
                    hollow square. They used the circle to surround their enemies, the semi-circle, if the enemy had a
                    stream on one side or in the rear, and the hollow square in case of sudden attack, when they were in
                    danger of being surrounded. By forming a square and taking to trees, they put their faces to the
                    enemy in every direction and lessened the danger of being shot from behind objects on either
                        side.43
            
            The principal sachem of a village was seldom the warchief in charge of an expedition. War-chiefs were
                    selected with an eye solely to their skill and ability; to entrust the care and direction of an army
                    to an inexperienced leader was unheard of. One man, however, was never entrusted with the absolute
                    command of an army. A general council of the principal officers was held, and a plan concerted for
                    an attack. Such a council was held before the battle of Fallen Timbers, in which Blue Jacket, of the
                    Shawnees, Little Turtle of the Miamis, and other celebrated leaders participated. The plan thus
                    concerted was scrupulously carried out. It was the duty of the war-chief to animate his warriors by
                    speeches and orations before the battle. During the battle he directed their movements by
                    prearranged signals or a shout or yell, and thus ordered the advance or retreat. The warriors who
                    crept through the long grasses of the swamp lands at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     to attack the army of Harrison were directed by the rattling of dried deer hoofs.
            It was a part of the tacties practiced by the war-chiefs to inflict the greatest possible damage upon
                    the enemy, with the loss of as few of their own men as possible. They were never to bring on an
                    attack without some considerable advantage, 
                  
                     43
                            Remarkable Occurrences, etc. 150.
               
                     "or without what appeared to them the sure prospect of
                    victory." If, after commencing an engagement, it became apparent that they could not win
                    the conflict without a great sacrifice of men, they generally abandoned it, and waited for a more
                    favorable opportunity. This was not the result of cowardice, for Harrison says that their bravery
                    and valor was unquestioned. It may have been largely the result of a savage supersition not to force
                    the decrees of Fate. Says Harrison: 
                        It may be fairly considered as having its source in that peculiar temperament of mind, which
                            they often manifested, of not pressing fortune under any sinister circumstances, but
                            patiently waiting until the chances of a successful issue appeared to be favorable.44
                  
                    
            
            When the Great Spirit was not angry, he would again favor his children.
            One tribe among the warriors of the northwest, however, were taught from their earliest youth never
                    to retreat; to regard "submission to an enemy as the lowest degradation", and to
                    "consider anything that had the appearance of an acknowledgment of the superiority of an
                    enemy as disgraceful". These were the Wyandots, the acknowledged superiors in the
                    northwestern confederacy. "In the battle of the Miami Rapids, of thirteen chiefs of that
                    tribe, who were present, only one survived, and he badly wounded."45
            
            The well known policy of the savages to ambush or outflank their enemies was well known to 
                        Washington
                    . He warned St. Clair of this terrible danger in the Indian country, but his advice went
                    unheeded. A pre-concerted attack might occur on the front ranks of an advancing column, and almost
                    immediately spread to the flanks. This occurred at Braddock's defeat. The glittering army
                    of redcoats, so much admired by 
                        Washington
                    , with drums beating and flags flying, forded the Monongahela and ascended the banks of
                    the river between two hidden ravines. Suddenly they were greeted by a terrible fire on the front
                    ranks, which almost immediately spread to the right flank, and then followed a horrible massacre of
                    huddled troops, who fired volleys of musketry at an 
                  
                     44 W. H. Harrison. Aborigines of the Ohio
                                    Valley. 39.
                  
                     45 W. H. Harrison. Aborigines of the Ohio
                                    Valley. 39.
               
                     invisible foe, and then miserably perished.46 When St. Clair started his ill-fated march upon the Miami towns in 1791, his movements were
                    observed every instant of time by the silent scouts and runners of the Miamis. Camping on the banks
                    of the upper 
                        Wabash
                    , and foolishly posting his milita far in the front, he suddenly saw them driven back in
                    confusion upon his regulars, his lines broken by attacks on both flanks, and his artillery silenced
                    to the last gun. The attack was so well planned, so sudden, and so furious, that nothing remained
                    but precipitate and disastrous retreat. Out of an army consisting of fourteen hundred men and
                    eighty-six officers, eight hundred and ninety men and sixteen officers were killed and wounded.47 St. Clair believed that he had been "overpowered by
                    numbers", and so reported to the government. "It was alleged by the
                    officers," says Judge Burnet, "that the Indians far outnumbered the American
                    troops. That conclusion was drawn, in part, from the fact that they outflanked and attacked the
                    American lines with great force, and at the same time on every side."48
                    The truth is, that St. Clair was completely outwitted by the admirable cunning and strategy of
                    Little Turtle, the Miami, who concerted the plan of attack, and directed its operation. Nor is it at
                    all likely that the Indians had a superior force. They often attacked superior numbers, if they
                    enjoyed the better fighting position, or could take advantage of an ambush or surprise. A very
                    respectable authority, who has the endorsement of historians, says: 
                        There was an army of Indians composed of Miamis, Pottawatimies, Ottoways, Chippawas,
                            Wyandotts, Delawares, Shawanoes, and a few Mingoes and Cherokees, amounting in all to eleven
                            hundred and thirtythree, that attacked and defeated General St. Clair on the 4th of
                            November, 1791. Each nation was commanded by their own chiefs, all of whom were governed by
                            the Little Turtle, who made the arrangement for the action and commenced the attack with the
                            Miamis, who were under his immediate command. The Indians had thirty killed and died with
                            their wounds the day of the action, and fifty wounded.49
                  
                    
            
            Of such formidable mould, were the red men of the northwest, who went into battle stripped to the
                    skin, and with 
                  
                     46 J. R. Albach, Annals of West. 129-137.
                  
                     47 James R. Albach, Annals of West. 585.
                  
                     48 Henry Howe, Historical Collections of 
                                    Ohio
                                . 129.
                  
                     49 The Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Manuscript. 84.
               
                     bodies painted with horrible stripes of vermilion. So
                    disastrous had been the result of their victories over the armies of Harmar and St. Clair, and so
                    illy equipped with men, money and supplies was the infant government of the 
                        United States
                    , that immediately prior to the campaign of General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    , a military conference was held between President Washington, General 
                        Knox
                    , Secretary of War, and General 
                        Wayne
                    , to devise a system of military tactics that should thereafter control in the conduct
                    of all wars against the Indians of the northwest.
            The development of this system of tactics has been outlined by General William Henry Harrison, who
                    was an aide to 
                        Wayne
                    , in a personal letter to Mann 
                        Butler
                    , one of the historians of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            It was determined that in all future contests with the tribes, that the troops employed should, when
                    in the Indian country, be moved in such manner as that the order of march could be immediately
                    converted, by simple evolution, into an order of battle. In other words, that the troops while
                    actually in the line of march could be almost instantly formed in lines of battle. This was to
                    prevent any sudden or unexpected attack, and this was always liable to occur in a thickly wooded
                    country. The troops were also to be taught to march in open formation, each file to be more than an
                    arm's length from those on the right and left. The old European system of fighting men
                    shoulder to shoulder was entirely impracticable in a wilderness of woods, for it invited too great a
                    slaughter, interfered with the movements of the troops, and shortened the lines. The great object of
                    the Indian tactics was always to flank their enemy, therefore an extension of the lines was highly
                    desirable when entering into action. 
                        In fighting Indians there was no shock to be given or received, and a very open order was
                            therefore attended with two very great advantages; it more than doubled the length of the
                            lines, and in charging, which was an essential part of the system, it gave more facility to
                            get through the obstacles which an action in the woods presented.
                    
            
            A system was also developed whereby, in case the Indians attempted to flank the army, they were met
                    by a succession of fresh troops coming from the rear to extend the lines. When encamped, the troops
                    were to assume the form of a hollow  square, with the baggage
                    and cavalry, and sometimes the light infantry and riflemen, in the center. A rampart of logs was to
                    be placed around the camp to prevent a sudden night attack, and to give the troops time to get under
                    arms, but this rampart was not intended as a means of defense in daylight. 
                        To defeat Indians by regular troops, the charge must be relied upon; the fatality of a
                            contest at long shot, with their accurate aim and facility of covering themselves, was
                            mournfully exhibited in the defeats of Braddock and St. Clair. General 
                                Wayne
                             used no patrols, no picket guards. In Indian warfare they would always be cut
                            off; and if that were not the case, they would afford no additional security to the army, as
                            Indians do not require roads to enable them to advance upon an enemy. For the same reason
                            (that they would be killed or taken) patrols were rejected, and reliance for safety was
                            entirely placed upon keeping the army always ready for action. In connection with this
                            system of constant preparation, there was only a chain of sentinels around the camp,
                            furnished by the camp guards, who were placed within supporting distance.50
                  
                    
            
            The outline and adoption of this system of tactics shows that both 
                        Washington
                     and Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     were fully aware of the dangerous nature of their savage adversaries; that they had a
                    wholesome respect for both their woodcraft and military discipline, and that they regarded the
                    conquest of the western wilderness as a task requiring great circumspection and military genius.
            
               
                  50 History of the Commonwealth of 
                            Kentucky
                        . Mann 
                     Butler. Louisville
                  , 1834. Pages 216, 217, 218.
            
            (TO BE CONTINUED.)
         
      
      
         
      
   
