
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 106, Issue 3, pages 219-322. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:106+issue:3+year:2010&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
          
          
               
               
                    
                         Pamphlet on youth hygiene, 1921. Like many publications originally
                              produced by the Indiana State Board of Health, this pamphlet was
                              reproduced for a national audience. While the cover implies a focus on
                              athletics, the text emphasizes positive eugenics and sexual
                              safety.
                         Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                    
                    
                    Improving Hoosiers
                    Indiana and the Wide Scope of American Eugenics
                    ALEXANDRA MINNA STERN 
                    During the twentieth century, Indiana was a leader
                         in health and welfare initiatives that sought to improve the well-being of
                         the state and its residents. With hindsight, we can see that the
                         motivations and goals of these programs were multifaceted, sometimes
                         contradictory, and evolved in intriguing ways over time. This special issue
                         examines the overlapping development of public health, welfare, and
                         education in Indiana through the prism of eugenics, a scientifically guided
                         theory of better breeding and human improvement that emerged in the early
                         twentieth century and influenced many areas of social thought and
                         organization. 
                    From 1890 to 1930, the dynamics of science and society in Indiana mirrored larger trends in
                                   America. During these decades, reformers
                         and experts across the United
                                   States dedicated themselves to social
                         progress and betterment. While the ideas of human improvement they embraced
                         often carried religious and moral overtones, by the turn of the century
                         they were increasingly shaped by scientific theories of evolutionism and
                              
                              Alexandra Minna Stern is the Zina Pitcher Collegiate Professor
                                   in the History of Medicine at the University of Michigan, where
                                   she also is the Associate Director of the Center for the History
                                   of Medicine, and Associate Professor in Obstetrics and
                                   Gynecology, History and American Culture. 
                         
                          heredity, and medical doctrines of
                         bacteriology and germ theory. Whether in public health, education, or
                         family welfare, these approaches to improvement frequently shared a
                         reductionist belief that science could solve the social problems plaguing
                         American society as it passed through a turbulent period of urbanization,
                         industrialization, and demographic change. In many ways, Indiana stood at the crossroads of these
                         transformations in American society, and its leaders looked to eugenics to
                         explain and solve problems of social displacement, rural and urban poverty,
                         and socioeconomic and racial stratification. 
                    Indiana holds the ignominious distinction
                         of being the first state in the country to pass a eugenic sterilization
                         law. A state with an overwhelmingly white population, Indiana's experiment with eugenics, which
                         also included a 1905 marriage law and elaborate and immensely popular
                         better baby contests at the Indiana State Fair in the 1920s, was profoundly
                         shaped by a concern with policing the boundaries of an emergent and
                         primarily urban white middle class. Thus, Indiana's exclusionary eugenic programs often
                         targeted poor whites who eked out an existence in rural areas, whereas the
                         state's more positive initiatives focused on educated white families
                         and their ideally robust children, whose health was measured and bettered
                         at events such as better baby contests.1 
                    In spring 2007, one century after the passage of Indiana's hallmark sterilization law, an
                         interdisciplinary group of historians, legal scholars, artists,
                         legislators, and community members gathered at the state library in
                                   Indianapolis for a
                         public symposium that explored the varying facets and lingering effects of
                         eugenics in the Hoosier state. This event also included the installation of
                         a historical exhibit on Indiana eugenics, which since
                         has been retooled into a digital archive, and the placement of a historical
                         marker in front of the state capitol building to acknowledge the
                         approximately 2,500 Hoosiers sterilized against their will during the
                         height of the eugenics era.2
                    Building on historical work realized as part of the centennial recognition of
                                   Indiana's sterilization law, this
                         special issue delves into several under-explored yet enormously important
                         areas in the history of 
                              1For an overview of eugenics in
                                             Indiana see
                                   Alexandra Minna Stern, "'We Cannot Make a Silk Purse
                                   Out of a Sow's Ear': Eugenics in the Hoosier
                                   Heartland," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                   103 (March 2007), 3-38.
                              2See http://www.iupui.edu/-fit2brd/
                         
                         
                         
                              Better Babies exhibition at the 1931 Indiana State Fair. These
                                   popular contests promoted good breeding among white middle-class
                                   Hoosiers—a key audience for eugenic theory.
                              Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                          eugenics. In doing so, this trio of essays—based on original
                         research conducted primarily at the state archives and state library, and
                         in several special collections-both situates Indiana's experiences in the wider scope of
                         American eugenics and highlights how ideas of biological betterment found
                         uniquely fertile soil in the Hoosier heartland. Furthermore, the essays
                         draw from an impressive and ever-expanding literature on the role of
                         eugenics in the United States that has shown convincingly
                         the affinity between Progressivism and eugenics, particularly with regard
                         to ideas about disease prevention and rational social control.3 They have 
                              3The literature is too voluminous to survey
                                   here. Just a few of the excellent books include Steven Selden,
                                        Inheriting Shame: The Story of Eugenics and
                                        Racism in America (New
                                        York, 1999); Daniel J. Kevles, In the Name of Eugenics: Genetics and the Uses of
                                        Human Heredity (Cambridge, Mass., 1995); and Diane B. Paul,
                                        Controlling Human Heredity: 1865 to the
                                        Present (Amherst, N.Y., 1998).
                         
                          also benefited from a more recent
                         explosion of fine-grained studies at the state and local level, which
                         examine myriad manifestations of eugenics in their particular
                              complexity.4 
                    Framed broadly and situated locally, each article in this special issue
                         demonstrates that the doctrine of human improvement deployed by Hoosier
                         reformers, while firm in the goal of enhancing well-being, was protean and
                         could change over time. In her essay on the female field workers who
                         carried out eugenic family studies, Kendra Clauser-Roemer shows how these
                         professional women shifted the emphasis of the Indiana Committee on Mental
                         Defectives away from the fatalist perspective that next to nothing could be
                         done for those deemed defective, to a more sanguine approach that touted
                         the promise of environmental and social interventions. In a similar vein,
                         Jennifer Burek Pierce provides a candid and enlightening portrait of the
                         long-serving health secretary John N. Hurty that eloquently captures the
                         personal and professional versatility of the man remembered as
                                   "Indiana's most useful
                         citizen." 
                    In practical terms, eugenics sought to distinguish and segregate the
                         "normal" from the "abnormal," to implement preventive
                         measures of public health and social hygiene, above all those related to
                         sexuality and marriage, and to regiment education through school
                         standardization and mental testing. To a great extent, eugenics was about
                         creating and enforcing a new normality that was informed by the
                         consolidating sciences of heredity, statistics, and medicine, and in which
                         the white middle class was held up as both as the norm and the ideal to be
                              attained.5 In addition, eugenics helped to
                         envisage and enforce a constrictive racial vision of America that involved the social exclusion of
                         African Americans, ethnic immigrants, and poor whites as well as the
                         labeling and stigmatization of physical and mental disability.6 In his essay, Robert Osgood captures these patterns
                         as he describes the close interplay 
                              4See Paul Lombardo, ed., 100
                                        Years of Eugenics: From the "Indiana Experiment"
                                        to the Human Genome Era (Bloomington,
                                             Ind., 2010), an
                                   edited volume that highlights local and state histories of
                                   eugenics and was also produced as part of Indiana's eugenics
                                   centennial. Also see Nancy L. Gallagher, Breeding
                                        Better Vermonters: The Eugenics Project in the Green
                                        Mountain State (Lebanon, N.H., 1999); and Gregory Michael
                                   Dorr, Segregation's Science: Eugenics and
                                        Society in Virginia (Charlottesville,
                                             Va., 2008).
                              5See Julian B. Carter, The
                                        Heart of Whiteness: Normal Sexuality and Race in America,
                                        1880-1940 (Durham, N.C., 2007); and Ian Hacking, The Taming of Chance (New
                                             York, 1990).
                              6Lennard J. Davis, "Constructing
                                   Normalcy: The Bell Curve, the Novel, and the Invention of the
                                   Disabled Body in the Nineteenth Century," in 
                                        The Disability Studies Reader, Lennard J. Davis, ed.,
                                   2nd. ed. (New York, 2006), 3-16.
                         
                          between eugenics and education during
                         a period in which teachers and psychologists were creating a large
                         repertoire of instruments to classify and track students according to their
                         putatively inherent intelligence. As Osgood shows, Indiana, with its rapidly growing public school
                         system and forerunner status in the eugenics movement, provided propitious
                         ground for the extensive administration of mental tests and the development
                         of special education programs. 
                    One of the strengths of these articles is that they illuminate the
                         multi-dimensional character of eugenics in Indiana by profiling historical
                         actors who have received little scholarly attention, such as field worker
                         Edna Jatho or pioneer of special education Donald DuShane. This novel
                         research and analysis helps to populate the cast of characters studied in
                                   Indiana's history from 1890 to 1930.
                         Furthermore, it points to the critical role that a rising class of degreed
                         professionals played in setting the agendas of the state's
                         institutions and health and welfare programs. As the authors illuminate the
                         Hoosier ties and orbits of these historical figures, they also place them
                         in their regional and national contexts, emphasizing how the doctrines of
                         improvement that gained such currency in Indiana
                         simultaneously reflected and diverged from broader trends. Finally, given
                         the contributors' thoughtful engagement with salient themes in science
                         studies, their essays are valuable contributions to the expanding history
                         of science and medicine in twentieth-century Indiana, a burgeoning and exciting field that
                         has been already recognized by the Indiana Magazine of
                              History.7
                         
                              7See Brent Ruswick, "The Measure of
                                   Worthiness: The Rev. Oscar McCulloch and the Pauper Problem,
                                   1877-1891," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                   104 (March 2008), 3-35; Elsa E Kramer, "Recasting the Tribe
                                   of Ishmael: The Role of Indianapolis's Nineteenth-Century Poor in
                                   Twentieth-Century Eugenics," Indiana Magazine
                                        of History, 104 (March 2008), 36-64; Donna Drucker,
                                   "'A Noble Experiment': The Marriage Course at
                                   Indiana University, 1938-1940," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 103 (September 2007), 231-64; and
                                   Robert Osgood, "From 'Public Liabilities' to
                                   'Public Assets': Special Education for Children with
                                   Mental Retardation in Indiana Public Schools, 1908-1931,"
                                        Indiana Magazine of History, 98 (September
                                   2002), 203-225.
                          

               

               
                    Indiana's Public Health Pioneer and History's Iron Pen
                    Recollecting the Professional Idealism of John N. Hurty, 1896-1925
                    JENNIFER BUREK PIERCE
                    In many respects, 1915 marked the peak of John N. Hurty's professional
                         reputation and political power. The sixty-three-year-old Hurty had served
                         as secretary of the Indiana State Board of Health for almost two decades,
                         always demanding active efforts to implement scientific health reform.
                         Multiple state laws, covering "almost every phase of progressive
                         sanitary science," encoded his varied aims and distinguished him among
                         his professional peers in other states.1 Statutes passed during his
                         tenure paralleled the development of national and international interests
                         in public health, both patterning and patterned on contemporary efforts to
                         strengthen government's role in disease prevention.
                    Historian of science Daniel J. Kevles has noted that "[s]o much was said
                         and done in the name of eugenics," and Hurty's sprawling activism
                         was inflected with the politics and the sensibilities of that 
                              Jennifer Burek Pierce is Assistant Professor in the School of
                                   Library and Information Science at the University of Iowa. Her
                                   forthcoming book, The Age of Innocence: Sex,
                                        Science, and Adolescence in the Early Twentieth
                                   Century, presents a history of the means by which sex
                                   education moved from private conversation to purchased text
                                   during that period.
                              1"Dr. Hurty and His Work," news
                                   clipping, n.p., February 25, 1915, folder 11, box 3b, Papers of
                                   John N. Hurty (hereafter JNH), Indiana State Archives,
                                             Indianapolis, Indiana.
                         
                          movement.2 Hurty
                         had, to some acclaim, lobbied for a general expansion of the state's
                         public health laws intended to ensure a healthy citizenry, initiated
                         campaigns against diseases like tuberculosis, and worked zealously to
                         improve the physical condition of public schools. He was also instrumental
                         in ensuring the quality of water, food, and medicine; his lobbying efforts
                         at the state level preceded the national Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 by
                         nine years. Many scholars have argued that Hurty's law formed the
                         model for the federal legislation; an early biographer claimed that he was
                         a key voice urging Ladies' Home Journal editor
                         Edward Bok to undertake his controversial publication of articles on
                         venereal disease at roughly the same time.3 Hurty
                         expressed his forthright views in publications ranging from the South Bend Tribune to Good
                              Housekeeping.4 Although his agenda was
                         endorsed by physicians who had lobbied for the creation of this state
                         office, Hurty's initiatives frequently caused controversy, making
                         headlines across Indiana and in turn making him
                         a household name.5
                    In 1915, Hurty experienced a significant legislative threat to his status: a
                         new bill gave the governor the ability to fill Hurty's position by
                         appointment, rather than allow members of the public health board to elect
                         their own leader. While his career hung in the balance, Hurty's
                         colleagues at the Indianapolis Medical Society considered his legacy.
                         Certain he had provided the sort of leadership that should be celebrated,
                         the society prepared to acknowledge his service to the state with a 
                         dinner whose guest list, which numbered in the hundreds, included state and
                         international figures in health and medicine. The occasion featured
                         tributes to the beleaguered health officer that created a portrait of the
                              
                              2Daniel J. Kevles, In the Name
                                        of Eugenics: Genetics and the Uses of Human Heredity
                                             (New York,
                                   1985), x.
                              3J. Bennett and R.D. Feldman, "The Most
                                   Useful Citizen of Indiana: John N. Hurty and the Public Health
                                   Movement," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                                        History, 12 (Summer 2000), 42; Charles A. Bonsett,
                                   "John Newell Hurty: Professor, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
                                   Physician," Journal of the State Medical
                                        Association, 72 (April 1979), 217; Thurman B. Rice, The Hoosier Health Officer: A Biography of Dr John
                                        N. Hurty (Indianapolis, 1946); James H.
                                   Madison, The Indiana Way: A State History
                                             (Bloomington,
                                             Ind., 1986).
                              4John N. Hurty to Editor, news clipping, South Bend Tribune, December 21, 1907, folder
                                   11, box 3b, JNH; Hurty to James E. Tower, January 7, 1907, folder
                                   11, box 3b, JNH.
                              5For a discussion of the founding of the
                                   Indiana State Board of Health, see Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an
                                        Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920
                                             (Indianapolis, 1968), 469-81.
                                   225
                          man and the medical reformer.
                         Amidst serious commentary on the significance of the changes Hurty had
                         implemented through health regulations, a mock beauty pageant contrasted
                         an ailing Miss Indiana of 1896 with a Miss Indiana of 1915 whose bloom of
                         youth and health were meant to epitomize the secretary's
                         accomplishments.6 Guests celebrated his work and his words, even as they
                         teased him about his cantankerous attitude and the quirks of his diet.
                         Rhode Island secretary of the State Board of Health Gardner T. Swarts,
                         toasted—and teased—Hurty from afar: "May good health and a long regime
                         be the allotment of Dr. Hurty and his consuming appetite for catsups,
                         doctored sauces and other pickled things not be a bar to his good
                         digestion at this joyful dinner."7 More than one person present
                         wondered how the state would eventually remember Hurty, yet none doubted
                         that his leadership would be commemorated by grateful future citizens.
                    
                    Hurty also was concerned about how his innovative career would be remembered,
                         well aware that by 1915 he had generated a record of service almost as
                         distinctive for its duration as its agenda. In Indiana, reporters
                         challenged his ideas about disease prevention, and legislators attacked his
                         views. Because of the many successes that resulted from his evangelistic
                         approach to health promotion, he became known as "Indiana's most
                         useful citizen."8 The national testimonials to Hurty's 
                         professional judgment expressed at the honorary dinner, in tandem with a
                         groundswell of popular support within the state, indicated that Hurty had
                         considerable clout. While state health officers at the turn of the 
                         previous century have been described as "largely powerless and
                         ineffective," Hurty, for good or ill, defied this characterization.9 
                    Hurty's work represented a microcosm of Progressive-era reform activity,
                         built upon a foundation of Victorian philosophies and values of thrift,
                         uplift, and righteousness. His belief in the benefits that could accrue
                         from scientific innovation and progressive advocacy did not prevent him
                         from forming harsh judgments about poor rural families, criminals, and
                         disabled individuals, whose conditions he saw as threatening 
                              6"Honors to Dr. Hurty of Indiana,"
                                        Indianapolis Medical Journal, 18 (April
                                   1915), 166.
                              7Gardner T. Swarts to Alfred Henry, March
                                   13, 1915, folder 6, box 3b, JNH.
                              8This epithet first appeared in the
                                   contemporary news article, "Honors to Dr. Hurty," and
                                   was later repeated by others. See, for example, Rice, The Hoosier Health Officer, 4.
                              9Dorothy Porter, Health,
                                        Civilization, and the State: A History of Public Health from
                                        Ancient to Modern Times (London, 1999), 155.
                           
                              John N. Hurty at work. As secretary of the Indiana State Board of
                                   Health for more than twenty-five years, Hurty proved an effective
                                   and influential advocate for public health. 
                              Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives 
                         the general welfare through their demands on public
                         resources.10 His condemnation of the poor and disabled; his promotion of
                         the sterilization of prisoners and other inmates of state asylums; the
                         biases implicit in his outreach efforts—all of these received less public
                         scrutiny than the potential costs of the programs he endeavored to
                         implement.
                    Hurty seemed to embody the paradoxes of the period: severe black-and-white
                         photographs of his thin, typically bespectacled face evoke the past; while
                         his forward-thinking intellect guided the creation of enduring health
                         reforms. These contrasts, which play a part in Hurty's now obscured
                         legacy, suggest further examination of his life. Contemporary 
                              10Hurty's stance can be described in
                                   terms laid out by Kevles, who argues that "It bears remem-
                                   bering that eugenics has proved itself historically to have been
                                   often a cruel and always a problematic faith, not least because
                                   it has elevated abstractions—the 'race,' the
                                   'population,' and more recently, 'the gene
                                   pool'—above the rights and needs of individuals and their
                                   families." Kevles, In the Name of
                                   Eugenics, 300-301. 227
                         
                          currents of reform and Hurty's
                         wide-ranging interest in chemistry, pharmacy, dentistry, and medicine
                         figured in his efforts to change the way Hoosiers lived. Hurty's
                         upbringing and personality also factored into how he approached his work as
                                   Indiana's chief health officer; this
                         intertwining of personal and professional prompts attention to his
                         personality and relationships, as well as to key events in his career. A
                         re-evaluation of Hurty's life and influence is likewise salient when
                         the eugenic norms he advocated are analyzed and discussed at the distance
                         of a century. Hurty's interest in health improvement was both local
                         and global, equally motivated by his sense of responsibility and his
                         blinding righteousness. His reform efforts reached in many directions: from
                         his interest in school children's health sparked by his father's
                         activism to his determination, generated by an international movement, to
                         stem the spread of syphilis. Hurty brought his convictions about healthy
                         behaviors and environments to bear in all aspects of his life, even in his
                         leisure activities. He was not by nature a humanitarian—he was attracted to
                         the simultaneously abstract and empirical notion of health, a profoundly
                         held conviction rooted in his personal life, as much as his professional
                         one.
                    John Hurty was a midwesterner, and a fourth-generation American of German
                         descent. He was born in Lebanon,
                                   Ohio, in February 1852, to Josiah and Ann
                         Irene Hurty.11 His father, first a school teacher and
                         later a school superintendent, had a rather peripatetic career during
                         John's childhood. These years also seemed to be characterized by a
                         certain amount of conflict between the strong-willed father and his equally
                         willful son, although Hurty remembered his father fondly.12 Josiah Hurty had firm notions about standards of cleanliness
                         and health involving fresh air and frequent bathing that were
                         unconventional in the post-Civil War years; these practices, enforced at
                         home during John's upbringing, were also carried into Josiah's
                         school rooms, often to the indignation of local citizens. Hurty once
                         explained what he learned from the dissent that marked his father's
                         career: "My father was ridiculed and received much abuse for
                         advocating and working for the very school system which is now adopted and
                         used in Indiana. He lived to see the system adopted
                              
                              11"John N. Hurty," National Cyclopaedia of American Biography, vol. 22
                                   (New York,
                                   1932), 370- 71.
                              12Rice, The Hoosier Health
                                        Officer, 13-14; Hurty to Bennett M. Grove, December 23,
                                   1907, folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                         
                          and to know what great good it could
                              do."13 Hurty probably retained the philosophy
                         of wellness that he gained at home; he also seemed to internalize his
                         father's disregard for criticism of unpopular professional conduct,
                         adopting the same uncompromising attitude in his own career.
                    Much of what is commonly known about Hurty's childhood and young
                         adulthood has been preserved through the efforts of Thurman B. Rice,
                         himself a former Indiana health commissioner
                         and an apologist for Hurty. Rice's research on Hurty extended to
                         reading notations in his for- mer employer's family Bible, perusing
                         Josiah's scrapbooks from his days as a teacher, interviewing surviving
                         family members, and constructing a Hurty family tree that traced their
                         lineage back to Revolutionary-era hero Ethan Allen.14
                         Rice's fascination with Hurty's family origins suggested that the
                         two men shared interests in breeding and the conditions of family life as
                         determinants of vigor and success. Ironically, it was Rice who emphasized
                         conflict and disagreement between Hurty and his father.
                    Whatever disagreements Hurty had with his father, his career repeatedly
                         suggested the elder man's influence, and Hurty himself acknowledged
                         this on occasion. In the last months of his life, when he lectured on
                         hygiene at the Indiana Dental College, Hurty described the individual as
                         the product of environment, education, and heredity. He told his students
                         that genetic inheritance and upbringing made the self; these facets of
                         being were the core of individual health.15 He saw his
                         life in these terms, too, which was understood by his colleagues near and
                         far. An Atlanta colleague who could not attend
                         the 1915 dinner wrote to Hurty: If I were there
                              this evening...I would...say in the interests of eugenic truth that a
                              good share of the credit for what you have accomplished in your great
                              work belongs to that noble father and mother who started you on your
                              career. And then I have the connection also that you have in that
                              devoted wife of yours one to whom no small credit is due—in shaping
                              your career to its large issues—for good.16
                         
                              13Hurty to Grove, December 23, 1907, folder
                                   11, box 3b, JNH.
                              14Rice, The Hoosier Health
                                        Officer, 8-9, 13.
                              15Hurty, Course in Hygiene notebook, Indiana
                                   Dental College, November 12, 1924, box 3c, JNH. 
                              16Matt L. Haines to Hurty, March 13, 1915,
                                   folder 6, box 3b,JNH. 229
                         
                         
                         
                              John Hurty course notebook, Indiana Dental College, 1924-25. Even
                                   in his dental hygiene classes, Hurty continued to espouse eugenic
                                   ideology, arguing that people are the products of what they have,
                                   who they are, and what they do.
                              Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                         
                          The colleagues who formed close
                         relationships with the arch, impatient health commissioner saw his seeming
                         single-mindedness as, in fact, very human. However, those who knew Hurty
                         only through the laws and health promotion activities he created seldom
                         shared this sense of the state's health secretary as loved and loving
                         man, shaped by his family. Hurty's perspective on health derived from
                         his construction of his personal identity as much as it rested on public
                         policy, yet he touted the strengths of scientific health management, rather
                         than the lessons learned from his father.
                    Hurty's professional life began with an ordinary pharmacy job in
                                   Illinois where he worked for Col. Eli
                         Lilly. The colonel and Hurty moved to Indianapolis in 1873 when Lilly went into a
                         partnership with Dr. John Johnstone. Shortly thereafter, Hurty became
                         foreman of Johnstone and Lilly's pharmaceutical operation.17 After Hurty had begun to establish himself as a
                         pharmacist, he married Dr. Johnstone's daughter Ethel in 1877, and
                         together they had two children. In 1879, when the Johnstone-Lilly
                         partnership broke up, Hurty opened his own drug store.18 Hurty taught college courses in hygiene and pharmacy and
                         earned his degree in medicine in 1891.19 By the time he
                         became secretary of the State Board of Public Health, Hurty had also
                         operated his own chemical analysis company, specializing in water purity.
                         This dimension of his expertise was acknowledged by others in the business,
                         during the dust-up of 1915, when he was elected president of the Indiana
                         Sanitary and Water Supply Association, and again later in 1945, when the
                         Indiana Department of Environmental Management created an award in
                         Hurty's name for extensive service to the state in some aspect of
                         water management.20
                    The emergent nature of public health, coupled with his investment in new
                         scientific principles, and a broad range of personal contacts and
                         professional connections, encouraged Hurty to construct his vision of a
                              
                              17Rice, The Hoosier Health
                                        Officer, 19.
                              18Col. Lilly would go on to found the
                                   pharmaceutical corporation of Eli Lilly and Company. Rice, The Hoosier Health Officer, 19.
                              19Hurty's education has generated
                                   dispute among historians. Rice is among those who have made the
                                   case that Hurty earned a medical degree in Indiana. Rice, The
                                        Hoosier Health Officer, 33-35.
                              20"Hurty's Work Indorsed by Water
                                   Association," news clipping, n.p., February 25, 1915, folder
                                   11, box 3b, JNH; "John N. Hurty Award," Indiana
                                   Department of Environmental Management,
                                   http://www.in.gov/idem/5146.htm (accessed June 16, 2008).
                         
                          more healthful populace.21 Private reform organizations contributed to the milieu in
                         which Hurty advocated for Indiana health reform: he
                         communicated with numerous activists within the state's borders and
                         beyond, including John Harvey Kellogg, whose own health tracts and
                         involvement with the Race Betterment Conference evinced values Hurty found
                         sympathetic, and Prince A. Morrow, whose American Society for Moral and
                         Sanitary Prophylaxis also influenced Hurty's activities. Despite these
                         interactions, Hurty sometimes perceived himself as embattled and unaided,
                         his career reflecting the fortunes of the state health office—regarded as
                         vulnerable; marked by the need to balance scientific knowledge, media
                         savvy, and political skills; and threatened by frequent resignations of
                         agency heads. Instead of diplomatically presenting his specialized
                         knowledge to advocates who would help him make his case, Hurty returned his
                         critics' scorn. The strains of this period of reform seemed to demand
                         the fortitude that Hurty brought to every encounter.
                    The policies Hurty sought to implement in Indiana were
                         not formulated in isolation, an important consideration given his heritage
                         as the "Hoosier health officer." Alexandra Minna Stern has
                         observed that regional eugenics leaders often linked national organizations
                         like the American Eugenics Society to local conditions. But Hurty diverged
                         somewhat from this model, primarily holding memberships in national
                         professional organizations, rather than in local groups that often mingled
                         interested amateurs with scientists.22 He read widely,
                         corresponded prolifically, and attended meetings where he met and heard
                         prominent people like Morrow and bacteriologist Robert Koch. These
                         interactions fostered his determination to bring about change at home in
                                   Indiana. In the state's youngest
                         citizens, in particular, he saw the possibility for 
                              21The loose networks of the era differed
                                   from the coordinated structures of the early twenty-first
                                   century, in which numerous national entities such as the Robert
                                   Wood Johnson Foundation and the Centers for Disease Control and
                                   Prevention (CDC) guide policy and collect data to assess the
                                   effectiveness of state-level health programs and policies. The
                                   origins of the United States Public Health Service (the
                                   predecessor of the CDC) are described in Porter, Health,
                                   Civilization, and the State, 159. For a discussion of
                                   twenty-first-century state health employment practices see
                                   "The Recruitment, Selection, and Retention of a State Health
                                   Official: A Guide for the Appointing Authority," State
                                   Health Leadership Initiative. http://www.statepublichealth.org/
                                   ?template=landing.php&section=shli_login/ (accessed May 24,
                                   2008).
                              22Alexandra Minna Stern, "'We
                                   Cannot Make a Silk Purse Out of a Sow's Ear': Eugenics
                                   in the Hoosier Heartland," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, 103 (March 2007), 6-7.
                         
                          creating the better and healthier
                         communities he believed should be the norm. As he tried to implement his
                         reforms, Hurty encountered what public health historian John Duffy has
                         described as "the clash between individual liberty and the public
                              welfare."23 The norms and values of
                         Indiana,
                         with its "tradition of individual freedom and responsibility...of
                         wariness of government, particularly when it is located at a
                         distance," enhanced the potential for conflict as Hurty attempted to
                         direct the state's citizenry in matters as sensitive as their sexual
                         conduct and as close to the hearth as child-raising.24
                         Hurty invested his entire effort in public health, spurning the idea that
                         he could protect individual rights as well as the public welfare.
                    Hurty's contemporaries regarded his relentless energy and attention to
                         matters of well-being as crucial for improving public health in the early
                         twentieth century; however, the citizens whose lives he sought to protect
                         sometimes saw his actions as intrusive, expensive, or simply unnecessary.
                         It is unsurprising, then, that Hurty was threatened with (yet survived)
                         more than one political effort to unseat him-the first in 1911, and another
                         in 1915.25 In the intervening years, Hurty had been
                         elected president of the American Public Health Association, one sign of
                         how the larger health community regarded the efforts that seemed to
                         jeopardize his career in Indiana.26
                         At the same time that the state lagged behind its neighbors in industrial
                         development and other signs of modernization, Hurty developed a national
                         reputation as a leading health officer. Regardless of Hurty's long
                         tenure and accomplishments, by 1915 the balance seemed to tip in favor of
                         his detractors, when a bill proposed in the Indiana House of
                         Representatives tried to remove the Republican Hurty from his position by
                         allowing the Democratic governor to appoint the Board of Health's
                         secretary. The entire state watched the ensuing drama.
                    Newspapers throughout Indiana covered the controversy, reporting on the
                         bill's status in the legislature and offering editorial 
                              23John Duffy, The Sanitarians:
                              A History of American Public Health
                                   (Urbana,
                                   Ill.,
                                   1990), 3.
                              24Madison, The Indiana
                                   Way, xiv.
                              25News clipping, Terre Haute
                                        Star, February 18, 1911, folder 11, box 3b, JNH; news
                                   clipping, The Lebanon Pioneer, February 16,
                                   [1911], folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              26lndiana Board of Health, "Public
                                   Health in Indiana," http://www.in.gov/history/6268.htm
                                   (accessed June 23, 2008).
                         
                          commentary that tended to champion
                         Hurty. The Columbus Republican was just one publication decrying the
                         "cold-blooded measure" and its author who "freely
                         acknowledged" his intention "to replace a republican office
                         holder with a democrat."27 Before the legislative
                         battle ended, with Hurty's position once more secure and the governor
                         himself declaring, "I am a Hurty man," Hurty's colleagues in
                         the Indianapolis Medical Society commemorated his service to the state with
                         an honorary dinner attended by hundreds of Hoosiers and health
                              professionals.28 It was an occasion that
                         highlighted the connections Hurty had developed with leading medical and
                         health professionals across the country, as well as the esteem his work had
                         garnered locally. State leaders, fellow health commissioners from around
                         the nation, the president of the American Medical Association (AMA), and
                         the editor of the AMA's journal all paid tribute to Hurty.29 One public official who could not be present sent a
                         message describing Hurty as a lovable "crank" and commented on
                         how much the state owed its hard-working public health secretary: 
                         I have some intimations of a monument to him. The
                              State of Indiana owes him one, But-
                               'Better than martial woe
                              and the pageant of civil sorrow, 
                              Better than praise of today or
                              the statue we build tomorrow, 
                              Better than honor and glory and
                              history's iron pen, 
                              Was the thought of duty done and the
                              love of their fellow men.' 
                              If I know him, that is Hurty.30
                         Attendees heard of a proposed monument to Hurty, echoing a proposition
                         first put forth two years earlier, when Indianapolis doctor William N.
                         Wishard urged Indiana University President William Bryan to award Hurty an
                         honorary doctorate. In the midst of ambiguity as to whether 
                              27News clipping, Columbus
                                        Republican, February 23, 1915, folder 11, box 3b,
                                   JNH.
                              28"Dr. Hurty Commended for Official
                                   Service," news clipping, Indianapolis
                                   News, February 24, 1915, folder 8, box 3b, JNH.
                              29Anniversary Dinner in Honor of Dr. John N.
                                   Hurty, March 13, 1915, folder 8, box 3b, JNH.
                              30J. E. Cleland to Alfred Henry, March 13,
                                   1915, folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                         
                          Hurty would continue as health
                         commissioner, the dinner's organizers contended that "the state
                         of Indiana will undoubtedly honor itself by some day erecting a monument to
                         commemorate his notable public service."31 That day did not occur
                         during Hurty's lifetime. He served as health secretary from 1896 until
                         1922, retiring from his position only three years before his death. Further
                         accolades, though none with the fervor of 1915, followed his resignation.
                         The voices that touted his accomplishments described Hurty as
                         forward-looking, seeing possibilities for well-being where disease had
                         prevailed. Many others recognized that Hurty's official actions,
                         always contentious, were being scrutinized by the Indiana Supreme Court. In
                         1921, the court found that the sterilization legislation for which Hurty
                         had lobbied in 1907 violated the state constitution.
                    Competing perspectives about whether Hurty's acts were heroic or
                         intrusive, coupled with the darker consequences of his agenda, suggest the
                         reasons Indiana never memorialized her once-favored
                         son. Instead, in 2007, one hundred years after the passage of one of the
                         many pieces of legislation attributed to Hurty, the state acknowledged
                         those affected by his eugenic reforms.32 A state
                         historical marker outside the Indiana
                         capitol remembers an estimated 2,500 individuals sterilized through the
                         enactment of policies that Hurty advocated as health secretary. It stands
                         as evidence of the dramatic shift in the estimation of Hurty's
                         career.
                    Around the nation, Hurty became known for curtailing the child-bearing of
                         people who were regarded as undesirable. Residents from other states and
                         nations consulted Indiana's early twentieth-century marriage and
                         sterilization laws, which were passed with his support to enforce eugenic
                         limitations on reproduction. The first of these laws, restricting marriage,
                         was passed in 1905, followed by one permitting sterilization of the
                         incarcerated and the institutionalized.33 Both the
                         marriage and sterilization laws targeted individuals convicted of criminal
                         offenses, whether major or minor, as well as those who were deemed mentally
                         or morally deficient. The sterilization law lost official sanction shortly
                         after its enactment, when Democratic governor Thomas R. 
                              31"Dr. Hurty Commended for Official
                                   Service," Indianapolis News, February 24,
                                   1915.
                              32David Klinghoffer, "Indiana Had Ties
                                   to Darwin's Dark Side," Indianapolis
                                        Star, February 11, 2007.
                              33See Stern, "'We Cannot Make a
                                   Silk Purse Out of a Sow's Ear,'" 8-13.
                         
                          Marshall issued an executive order
                         against institutional sterilization in 1909."34
                         Nonetheless, Hurty persisted in the belief that this law was in the public
                         interest. The inevitable institutionalization of these individuals was
                         costly, Hurty and other proponents argued, and preventing their vices from
                         being propagated was key to social improvement. When private individuals
                         and public officials from around the country consulted Hurty about the
                         tandem effort represented by the marriage and sterilization laws, he was
                         astonishingly frank about strategies for securing his desired end. Hurty
                         told information seekers that the sterilization law was intended to
                         accomplish what the state's recent marriage laws alone could not.
                         "The operation may be done by force, after the Commission has so
                         ordered," he wrote to one individual who sought details about
                                   Indiana's procedures.35 He explained how to secure the required permission from
                         inmates of state institutions, noting that, "in the life of every
                         prisoner, there appears a religious period," a crucial moment for
                         those involved in carrying out the sterilization program: When he asks to see the chaplain and his religious
                              nature is aroused, then he is urged to submit. You can readily imagine
                              the argument which is presented. He is reminded of his claims that he
                              could not resist the temptation to steal when that temptation
                              presented itself and is plainly told that this is a deficiency which
                              he is likely to transmit. Only in rare instances do they fail to agree
                              it would be best for them not to be parents.36 Stern has shown that those who were subjected to
                         Hurty's notions of reason and scientific management could scarcely be
                         said to have provided true, informed consent.37 Hurty
                         was not precise about the numbers of sterilized in Indiana, and he appears to have manipulated the
                         figures which he provided to those who sought information from his office.
                         His correspondence reveals that he frequently underplayed the extent of the
                              
                              34For an entire timeline of the
                                             Indiana eugenics
                                   program see "Timeline," Fit to Breed: History and
                                   Legacy of Indiana Eugenics, http://www.iupui.edu/-fit2brdl
                                   (accessed March 2, 2009).
                              35Hurty to Frank Whalen, December 26, 1907,
                                   folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              36Hurty to Frank Abial Flower, January 18,
                                   1908, folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              37Stern, "'We Cannot Make a Silk
                                   Purse Out of a Sow's Ear.'"
                         
                          state's sterilization program,
                         although, as time passed, he did selectively admit the actual numbers.38
                    Hurty recognized that the legislature would not allow his scrutiny to intrude
                         as far into marriages and intimate relationships as he would have liked; he
                         depended instead on a range of opportunities, in print or in person, to
                         promote his views. He seemed to relish publicity, not for his own sake but
                         for the causes he supported. Each notice seemed to be a small victory in
                         the battle Hurty perceived himself waging against disease and other
                         conditions that required the state to spend its money on what he regarded
                         as irreparable illness and debilitation. When his talks were lauded, he
                         celebrated his successes; when he was criticized, he redoubled his efforts
                         in pursuit of the goals he had established for others' lives.39
                         Occasionally, his supporters raised questions about his aims. Even with
                         them, Hurty was unapologetic. When Jonathan M. Maxwell of
                         Cleveland, Ohio,
                         questioned Hurty about another prominent eugenicist's position on
                         the death penalty, Hurty explained away the concerns, adding his own
                         endorsement of the troubling sentiments: "Dr. Bellfield did not advise
                         the killing of criminals and degenerates. He did say the graveyard was the
                         best place for all who are unfit to live.... He made a great speech and I
                         support every word that he said."40 To Hurty, Bellfield's
                         assessment was logical. The use of reason, he argued, supported
                         sterilizing those who had been judged unfit. "I think the rational
                         scientific method is to stop the procreation of criminals, idiots, etc.
                         The farmer finds this method efficient and effective with animals and with
                         trees. Man is only a highly endowed animal. He is subject to the same laws
                         as are animals," Hurty maintained.41 He alternated between this
                         detached scientific idealism and moralism, describing "the
                         perpetuation of degenerates" as "evil."42
                    
                         38In a series of letters in late December 1907 and early January
                              1908, the number of voluntary sterilizations during 1907 was first
                              given as 221, then as "about 250," and eventually as
                              "all but 15," i.e., 285 of the 300 people surgically
                              sterilized by the state. Hurty to Whalen, December 26, 1907; Hurty to
                              Rev. William K. Marshall, January 4, 1908, folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              Stern assesses Dr. Harry C. Sharp's role in the program and
                              account of sterilization figures, see Stern, "'We Cannot
                              Make a Silk Purse Out of a Sow's Ear,'" 11 n24.
                         39See, for example, his letter to the Rev.
                              Marshall, January 4, 1908, in which he described the
                                        Indiana marriage law and
                              his recent talk in Chicago, where 400
                              "doctors and lawyers were present."
                         40Hurty to Jonathan M. Maxwell, December 24, 1907, folder 11, box 3b,
                              JNH.
                         41Ibid.
                         42Hurty to Dr. John T. Haynes, December 23, 1907, folder 11, box 3b,
                              JNH.
                    
                    
                    Hurty did not simply sit at a desk in Indianapolis or promote his views from the
                         podium. He took an active stand against the threat of contagion among the
                         rural poor. Some Indiana residents appreciated his
                         willingness to visit farms and small towns, yet the manner in which these
                         visits were conducted at times provoked antagonism. Hurty's personal
                         involvement in hygiene reform, his attitudes toward the state's
                         predominantly rural families, and the resentment his actions and attitudes
                         created were evident in various instances. In one such case, Hurty assisted
                         a regional health official in managing a particularly virulent diphtheria
                         epidemic. Hurty described the situation: What
                              could health officers do under the circumstances? A dilapidated
                              shanty, two beds covered with worn and filthy bed clothes and all
                              reeking with virulent diphtheria germs. Two dead children, three sick
                              and with the awful disease, pigs and chickens at the front and back
                              doors, spreading filth all around and ever anon entering the house to
                              be driven out by the old grandmother; and lastly, the father and
                              mother, stolid and ignorant, standing around with vacant stare doing
                              nothing.... The dilapidated house and its contents could never be
                              disinfected. Afterward we besought the commissioners to burn the house
                              and all it contained, and supply one equally as good with proper
                              furnishings. Against this, the sacred rights of property and
                              economy....This was not the first set of officials I had found who
                              regarded health, life and happiness as of less importance than
                              property rights and the making of a political record for economy.43
                    The rich as well as the poor received criticism from Hurty. He interpreted
                         social worker Robert Hunter's treatise on Poverty as supporting his
                         own positions on "degenerates and paupers," noting that Hunter
                         declared "the exceedingly rich" to be paupers too, "because
                         they do not work and are supported by special tax upon the
                              community."44 He declared golf "An Awful
                         Extravagance" because the nation's 5,000 golf courses covered
                         "about 100 acres each of fine corn and wheat land." His 
                              43"Staying the Diphtheria
                                   Epidemic," news clipping, n.p., n.d., folder 11, box 3b,
                                   JNH.
                              44Robert Hunter, Poverty
                                             (New York,
                                   1907); Hurty to Whalen, December 26, 1907.
                         
                          complaint against the luxury of this
                         sport was not entirely without humor, as he observed that "There is
                         also a moral as well as economic view to be considered. Golf leads to
                         profanity and falsehood, to wife neglect, in attention to business, Sabbath
                         breaking and high-balls."45 Hurty proposed a more
                         austere vision of life: "What we all want is better order in our daily
                         thoughts, a clearer vision, a firmer courage, a power of
                              self-denial."46 This mode of living was an
                         ethical ideal that all should uphold, for the good of the individual and
                         the greater public. He did not consider the further implications of
                         imposing this modern sort of stoicism on others.
                    Hurty required money to carry out the varied programs he considered necessary
                         for the state's improvement. He complained to one writer whom he hoped
                         would petition the legislature in support of his budget increases: "It
                         would be an economy, for it is obvious if the public health can be uplifted
                         even one per cent, that the people will be made more prosperous and happy,
                         for does not all our happiness and wealth depend upon our health?"47 Following a visit to a small Indiana community, he reflected that he had
                         outlined for its local health officers "more work than they will have
                         money to accomplish in 50 years." When he could, he touted the views
                         of "sound, successful, practical business men" who supported
                         health reform, noting such individuals were not "health
                              cranks."48
                    Vital statistics were another of his signature interests. He insisted on
                         registering births and deaths in Indiana and spoke on the subject at a
                         national meeting of health officials.49 Under
                         Hurty's editorship, the Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of
                         Health regularly published these statistics as well as restatements of the
                         rules and complaints against those who were reluctant to comply. These
                         re-articulations suggest that at least some Hoosiers found complying with
                         this edict troublesome. Certainly, there is evidence that Hurty's
                         data collection was more comprehensive than that of other states during
                         this time.50 Beyond 
                              45Hurty, "Golf, An Awful
                                   Extravagance," news clipping, n.p., n.d., folder 11, box 3b,
                                   JNH.
                              46"Entertainment," news clipping,
                                   n.p., n.d., folder 14, box 3, JNH.
                              47Hurty to J. R. Marsh, January 30, 1908,
                                   folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              48Hurty to M. E. Moore, January 17, 1908,
                                   folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              49Hurty to [Cressy L.?] Wilbur, February 17,
                                   1908, folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              50See Burek Pierce, The Age of
                                        Innocence. 239
                         
                          
                         
                              Better Babies pavilion, 1931 Indiana State Fair. With its posters
                                   touting the benefits of hygienic baby care, this room gave
                                   medical professionals a place in which to evaluate babies and
                                   educate their parents in the principles championed by Hurty. 
                              Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives 
                         reporting raw numbers, Hurty also commented
                         on the trends that they represented. To him, the figures measured whether
                         the state's residents were more susceptible to disease than to
                         reason.
                    In 1914, Hurty published The Indiana Mothers' Baby Book, a treatise on
                         healthful childraising that informed subsequent outreach efforts such as
                         the Better Babies Contest at the Indiana State Fair.51 These endeavors
                         in infant hygiene were like many of Hurty's projects, reflecting an
                         amalgam of his philosophies of well-being and national health programs. In
                         this instance, Hurty's Baby Book brought forward the eugenic
                         orientation of his anti-venereal disease campaigns. Its epigraph 
                         
                              51Indiana State Board of Health, The Indiana Mothers' Baby Book, 2nd ed.
                                             (Indianapolis, 1920). For a general
                                   discussion of the Indiana's Better Babies Contest see Stern,
                                   "Making Better Babies: Public Health and Race Betterment in
                                   Indiana, 1920-1935," American Journal of Public
                                        Health, 92 (March 2002), 742-52.
                         
                          was the much noted "Child
                         Creed" which asserted that "Every child has the inalienable right
                         to be born free from disease, free from deformity and with pure blood in
                         its veins and arteries."52 Although the 
                         anti-venereal disease campaign was brought to an end by legislative pressure, it
                         was quickly revived under the guise of supporting infant health.53 At the same time that he promoted an agenda
                         developed in the earlier program, he coupled those interests with a larger
                         and better-funded national health program. Hurty described himself as a
                         strong supporter of the Sheppard-Towner Act for the improvement of maternal
                         and infant health.54 Although the state-based programs
                         were opposed by a number of national associations whose affiliates had
                         opposed the legislation as it was heard in Congress, Hurty was able to use
                         Sheppard-Towner funds to establish the Division of Infant and Child Hygiene
                         within his purview. The division, in turn, propagated Hurty's
                         perspective on health, culminating in the Baby Book and related
                         programs.
                    Not all of Hurty's ventures met with the success that his Baby Book did.
                         For example, during the same time period when the New Castle Courier
                         reported that Hurty "gave his celebrated lectures on
                         'Eugenics' before over 200 men in the Knights of Pythias
                         hall," and a poet mocked Hurty's critics as a sort of microbe to
                         be eliminated, other papers described a rather different reception.55 Opposition reigned in the Indiana House, and the
                         demise of a bill that provided for increased surveillance and quarantine
                         of tuberculosis patients was attributed to "[h]ostility to any
                         invasion of personal rights, coupled with antagonism against Dr.
                              Hurty."56
                    Hurty explained his 1922 resignation from the position he had occupied for
                         more than a quarter of a century with the statement: "[I]t was time
                         for 'a man of another temperament to take over the
                              work."'57
                         
                              52"The Indiana Child Creed," Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of
                                        Health, 13 (November 1910), 136; The "Indiana
                                   Child Creed" is discussed in depth in Stern, "Making
                                   Better Babies," 744-46.
                              53See Burek Pierce, The Age of
                                        Innocence, chap. 2.
                              54Hurty to Katharine C. Greenough, August
                                   23, 1922, folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              55"'Cranks' a Great Savings
                                   to State," news clipping, New Castle
                                        Courier, February 8, 1915, folder 11, box 3b,
                                   JNH.
                              56News clipping, n.p., February 25, 1915,
                                   folder 11, box 3b, JNH.
                              57David L. Cowen, "John Newell
                                   Hurty," American National Biography, vol.
                                   11 (New York, 1999), 573.
                         
                         
                         
                              As Hurty's career drew to a close, the Indianapolis Times paid
                                   tribute to his influence and tenure in state public health.
                              Indianapolis Times (January 11, 1923)
                          He died only three years later. Like Morrow and some of the other
                         leaders of the early twentieth-century hygiene movement, Hurty used the
                         status and the seniority he had gained throughout a lifetime of work to
                         advocate for aims that were both controversial and beneficial. It must be
                         noted, however, that his decision to leave his long-standing office
                         followed the 1921 Indiana Supreme Court decision on sterilization
                         legislation. Thus, Hurty concluded his career as state health commissioner
                         when one of the first marks of his power and influence was overturned.58 Despite his proclamations to the contrary, Hurty
                         continued his ascent to 
                              58The final repeal of Indiana eugenics legislation took
                                   place in 1974. See Jason S. Lantzer and Alexandra Minna Stern,
                                   "Building a Fit Society: Indiana's Eugenics
                                   Crusaders," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                                        History, 19 (Winter 2007), 4-11.
                         
                          power, winning a seat in the state
                         legislature in 1922. Nevertheless, the lengthy list of Progressive-era
                                   Indiana laws designed to promote public
                         health remains firmly associated with the years Hurty spent as health
                         secretary.
                    Hurty's resignation and his subsequent fitful, single term in the
                         Indiana House of Representatives did not end his attempts to influence.
                         Hurty wrote a column for the Indianapolis News and continued to teach
                         classes for state university health and medical programs. Hurty became a
                         trusted confident of Indiana Senator Albert J. Beveridge, who described him
                         as "dear Hurty," whom he held in his "heart of
                              hearts."59 The two shared a common interest
                         in reform issues—Beveridge was a significant supporter of federal food
                              regulation.60 The former senator regarded the
                         former state official as a man who understood Hoosiers, their values and
                         their reasoning. As Hurty's career wound down, Beveridge, who had
                         served from 1899 to 1911, began an effort to return to Congress. When
                         Beveridge prepared to launch an ultimately unsuccessful re-election
                         campaign in 1922, he found Hurty's insights essential. Beveridge
                         wrote, I want very much to get your analysis of
                              the public psychology. Also, I want your views as to the lines along
                              which I shall conduct the speaking campaign. I really mean this, dear
                              Hurty. During the past year I have knocked about among the people
                              myself more than ever before in my life and I think I have a fairly
                              accurate line on the mass thought and feeling. But I want it confirmed
                              or corrected by your own observation, which I have found to be as true
                              as a surveyor's level.61 In spite of
                         the conflict that accompanied Hurty's endeavors, other prominent
                         public figures trusted his sense of Indiana and
                         its people, and respected his ideas about public health. His continuing
                         role as a colleague and a respected advisor suggests that Hurty's
                         cynicism toward the 
                              59Albert J. Beveridge to Hurty, May 15,
                                   1922, folder 4, box 3b, JNH; "Albert J. Beveridge," Biographical Directory of the U.S. Congress, 1774
                                        to the Present, http://bioguide.congress.gov/
                                   scripts/biodisplay.pl?index=B000429 (accessed June 11,
                                   2008).
                              60Madison, The Indiana
                                   Way, 222-23.
                              61Beveridge to Hurty, June 24, 1922, folder
                                   4, box 3b, JNH.
                         
                          state's less fortunate was a
                         sentiment more commonly shared than his idiosyncratic denunciations might
                         have suggested.
                    The prominence of his views led others to keep his name in print. In 1933,
                         the American Journal of Public Health and the Nation's Health printed
                         a poem, "The Fence or the Ambulance," listing Hurty as the
                         author.62 More recently attributed to another author, Joseph Malins, the
                         poem's rhyming verses echo Hurty's beliefs yet lack his
                         aphoristic voice.63 In many ways, the misconstrued and posthumous
                         publication represented the first of many efforts to remember and refine
                         Hurty's perspective on public health for posterity.
                    Following his death, Hurty's career has been recounted, often in
                         hagiographic terms, by those who want to revive his memory as a 
                         courageous fighter for modern health practices. He has also been demonized,
                         albeit indirectly, for the most damaging aspects of his health reforms. A
                         meaningful assessment of his life and work depends on understanding both
                         the revolutionary and the regressive elements of his intentions, since both
                         were part of his outlook and aims. While the photographs that document his
                         life and his health programs are monochromatic, Hurty's colorful
                         record reflects a mix of informed and ill-considered judgments that he
                         enacted. Some scholarly discussions of eugenics have attempted to
                         differentiate between positive and negative eugenics, dividing the
                         forerunners of contemporary health promotion activities from punitive and
                         dehumanizing programs inflicted upon disabled and vulnerable
                         populations.64 Examination of Hurty's life and work indicates that
                         such a neat demarcation is not possible.
                    Hurty's extensive and therefore necessarily complicated work has had
                         lasting effects, within the state and around the nation. His legacy is
                              
                              62Earl [ ] to Alexandra Minna Stern,
                                   "More Clutter About John Hurty," June 23, 2008,
                                   personal email; John N. Hurty, "The Ambulance or the
                                   Fence," American Journal of Public Health and
                                        the Nation's Health, 23 (August 1933), 796.
                              63While a journal editor might not be
                                   expected to recognize Hurty's literary style, the 1933
                                   printing of "The Ambulance or the Fence" also appears
                                   to have ignored the purported author's death eight years
                                   prior as well as the poem's previous publication in 1913
                                   under Malins's name.
                              64Ruth C. Engs, Clean Living Movements: American Cycles of Health Reform
                                             (Westport,
                                             Conn., 2000);
                                   Wendy Kline, Building a Better Race: Gender
                                        Sexuality, and Eugenics from the Turn of the Century to the
                                        Baby Boom (Berkeley, Calif., 2001); and Harry Brunius,
                                        Better for all the World: The Secret History of
                                        Forced Sterilization and America's Quest for Racial
                                        Purity (New
                                        York, 2007).
                         
                          evident both in environmental
                         protection laws to ensure the purity of ground water and in individuals
                         sterilized by the state who are still liv- ing. It is impossible, even a
                         century later, to distance ourselves from the health reforms Hurty
                         generated, despite our twenty-first-century recognition that some of the
                         laws and policies he developed were neither egalitarian nor altruistic.
                         Hurty's reform work had a eugenic core, which, in keeping with late
                         nineteenth-century attitudes, saw the sick and the disabled as financial
                         burdens upon the state; prevention, and institutionalization when
                         prophylactic measures failed, framed his aims. Differences of era and
                         infrastructure alone do not account for the distinctive role that Hurty
                         played in the nascent public health movement. Recognizing the harm wrought
                         by Hurty's decisions involves awareness of the way his single-minded
                         pursuit of a common good limited his consideration of individuals'
                         humanity. His errors have become plainly visible, while his strengths have
                         led to public policies that have become so normal as to go virtually
                         unnoticed in Indiana and elsewhere in the
                         nation.
                    What current state measures, purportedly enacted in the name of public good
                         and economy, might in time be deemed impolitic? Which uses of state power
                         truly provide for the well-being of individuals and society? The work Hurty
                         advanced has shown that even policies predicated on the most recent
                         science are not without moral entailments. His life story reveals
                         consequences that his contemporaries considered as benign which are now
                         understood in a different light. History's iron pen, which
                         Hurty's colleagues trusted to compose his illustrious story, may be
                         blunted.
               

               
               
                    "What Indiana Can Do"
                    The Influence of Female Field Workers on the Indiana Committee on Mental
                         Defectives, 1915-1924
                    KENDRA CLAUSER-ROEMER
                    Abnormal behavior reactions which result in crime and delinquency are the
                         result of a complex and interdependent grouping of personal characteristics
                         and experiences which demand a very minute and varied study before the
                         individual concerned can be properly understood and his conduct correctly
                         interpreted. 
                         Edna R. Jatho1
                    In 1915, troubled by the rising costs of state institutions and poverty
                         relief and the assumed hereditary connections between mental illness,
                         crime, and poverty, the Indiana Board of State Charities (BSC) resolved
                         that "the problem of the mental defective is one of our greatest
                         social as well as financial burdens and is increasing with importance and
                         weight every year."2 In response to these
                         concerns, Indiana governor Samuel M. 
                              Kendra Clauser-Roemer is currently an adjunct instructor for the
                                   Indiana University School of Education, Indianapolis and the
                                   Development Chair for the History Educators Network of Indiana.
                                   She holds a M.A. in Public History and a Graduate Certificate in
                                   Museum Studies from IUPUI.
                              1Mental Defectives in Indiana,
                                        Third Report of the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives,
                                        Survey of One County and Cumulative Data from Survey of
                                        Eleven Counties. Surveys of the Criminal and Juvenile Courts
                                        of Marion County, the City Court of Indianapolis, the School
                                        Systems of Two Indiana Cities, the Indiana Girls'
                                        School and Two Orphans' Home. Conclusions and
                                        Recommendations (Indianapolis, July 31, 1922),
                                   23.
                              2Mental Defectives in Indiana,
                                        Report of the Committee on Mental Defectives
                                             (Indianapolis, November 10, 1916),
                                   1.
                         
                          Ralston established the Indiana
                         Committee on Mental Defectives (ICMD). The ICMD first met on December 17,
                         1915, to determine a method by which they could learn "what the
                         problem of mental defectives—including the epileptic, feeble-minded and
                         insane—is in Indiana, what is being done
                         for them here and elsewhere, and in light of the best experience what
                         program can be suggested for this state."3 During
                         its ten-year existence, the committee organized and funded three
                         psychological surveys in which field workers assessed communities, schools,
                         and state institutions. The ICMD culminated their efforts by publishing
                         three reports—each titled Mental Defectives in Indiana
                        —in 1916, 1918-19, and 1922.4 While all of the reports
                         included recommendations for much-needed institutional space and upgraded
                         services, and by default the money to fund them, the shift in the tone of
                         the third report is somewhat surprising. Instead of the fear-induced
                         language found in the introductions to the first and second reports, the
                         third booklet's tone shifted from apocalyptic warning to one of
                         community responsibility, and the recommendations for change bear a more
                         humanitarian initiative. While the tone may have changed, the message
                         remained the same, no doubt due to the stewardship of the original
                         committee members (six of whom remained on the committee during its entire
                         existence from 1915 to 1925). Each report warned of the increasing numbers
                         of mental defectives potentially requiring accommodations in state
                         institutions and the need for additional ICMD county surveys. The third
                         report, however, described the need for "ample facilities for
                         scientific treatment, education and employment" in addition to
                         community clinics and family care 
                              3Ibid. The first ICMD included Rev. Francis
                                   H. Gavisk, chairman of the BSC; Dr. George E Edenharter, medical
                                   superintendent for the Central Indiana Hospital for the Insane;
                                   Dr. Samuel E. Smith, medical superintendent of the Eastern
                                   Indiana Hospital for the Insane; Dr. Charles P. Emerson,
                                   president of Indiana University Medical School; Dr. W C. Van
                                   Nuys, superintendent for the Indiana Village for Epileptics; Dr.
                                   George C. Bliss, superintendent for the Indiana School for
                                   Feebleminded Youth; Sen. D. Frank Culbertson; and Rep. Charles A.
                                   McGonagle. Dr. Amos W. Butler of the Indiana BSC served as
                                   secretary. For more information on the ICMD see Robert Osgood,
                                   "The Menace of the Feebleminded: George Bliss, Amos Butler,
                                   and the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives," Indiana Magazine of History, 47 (December
                                   2001), 253-77.
                              4Although the ICMD published reports that
                                   included first, second, and third in their respective titles, the
                                   second report included two editions with slightly different
                                   titles and content-one published in 1918 and the other in 1919:
                                        Mental Defectives in Indiana, Second Report of
                                        the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives, A Survey of
                                        Eight Counties, First Edition (Indianapolis, December 27,
                                   1918); and Mental Defectives in Indiana, Second
                                        Report of the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives, A
                                        Survey of Ten Counties, Second Edition
                                             (Indianapolis, March 6, 1919). To
                                   further complicate matters, the latter was reprinted in 1919, and
                                   in doing so, the printer elimi- nated blank pages and changed the
                                   pagination.
                         
                         
                         
                              Field worker interviewing Marshall
                                             County family, ca. 1918.
                                   Photographers accompanied the ICMD field workers, providing
                                   visual evidence of the living conditions of their subjects.
                              Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                         support.5 Did the work on the previous surveys
                         open the minds of the ICMD to a broader spectrum of care for the mentally
                         challenged? Did new members, including the secretary of the Richmond Social
                         Service Bureau and a member of the state board of education, exert
                         influence on them?6 Perhaps, the answer to those
                         questions is "yes," but it is more likely that the real
                         influences were the women field workers who conducted the ICMD surveys.
                    
                         5Mental Defectives, July 31, 1922, 7.
                         6Before the second survey, Sen. Robert Bracken
                              replaced Senator Culbertson and Rep. James L. Kingsbury replaced
                              Representative McGonagle; as of the third survey, Sen. C. O. Holmes
                              replaced Robert Bracken; and Dr. Byron E. Biggs, superintendent of the
                              Indiana School for Feebleminded Youth, replaced Dr. George S. Bliss.
                              Dr. Kenosha Sessions, superintendent of the Indiana Girls'
                              School; Mrs. Richard Edwards, member of the State Board of Education;
                              S. Ethel Clark, secretary for the Richmond Social Service Bureau; and
                              T. E Fitzgibbon, superintendent for the Muncie schools, were added.
                                   Mental Defectives in Indiana, Second Report of the
                                   Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives, (1919; reprint,
                                        [Indianapolis],
                              1920), 4; Mental Defectives, July 31, 1922, 3.
                    
                    
                    Although many of the individuals whose names appear on state and national
                         mental hygiene reports, such as Lewis M. Terman and Julia C. Lathrop,
                         should be recognizable to scholars in the fields of history, education, and
                         psychology, most of the field workers remain anonymous. The ironic aspect
                         of this anonymity is that the field workers did the majority of the work on
                         these surveys. Not only did they conduct the interviews, proctor the tests,
                         and complete the case research, but some workers also wrote the reports.
                         Edna R. Jatho, one field worker involved in the ICMD studies, developed
                         well-defined ideas about "what Indiana
                         could do" to help its most vulnerable citizens. By the early 1920s,
                         Jatho and her colleagues shifted the focus of report recommendations from
                         an emphasis on institutionalization of the mentally challenged to the
                         improvement of individuals' lives.
                    The eugenics movement, which proposed to improve society by controlling human
                         heredity, influenced the nation's perspective on genetics and health
                         during the first three decades of the twentieth century. Professionals in
                         the fields of medicine, social services, mental hygiene, and correction
                         concluded that the etiology of most mental illness was hereditary. Even
                         before the rediscovery of Mendel's genetic work in 1900, scientists
                         and social reformers began researching the perceived hereditary nature of
                         human characteristics within impoverished, rural families. Many of these
                         nineteenth-century researchers believed improved social conditions would
                         trump such hereditary shortcomings. As the twentieth century began,
                         however, a dramatic change occurred in the perception of treating
                         hereditary dysfunction. Spurred by the burgeoning field of genetics, many
                         eugenicists believed human heredity was fixed. Some eugenicists even
                         suggested that people with poor heredity should be confined in state
                         institutions or sterilized. In Indiana, a crest of public anxiety aided the
                         passage of the 1907 compulsory sterilization act, the first in the
                         nation.
                    The next year also brought a monumental step for eugenics, when Henry H.
                         Goddard published the first English version of the Binet-Simon Measuring
                         Scale of Intelligence. After studying the methods of classroom teachers and
                         institutional physicians, French psychologist Alfred Binet and psychiatrist
                         Theodore Simon developed the scale, which assessed children through a
                         series of cognitive tests. The Binet-Simon Scale became the model for
                         intelligence testing because it not only combined elements of teacher
                         pedagogy and scientific technique, but it also compared a child's
                         development with established norms for 
                         his or her specific age level.7 Although Binet maintained that the 
                         purpose of the test was for individual assessment only, Progressive-era 
                         institutional managers discovered in Binet-Simon a scientific justification for
                         societal control and efficiency.8 Exacerbating the eugenic panic, in 1914
                         Goddard published Feeblemindedness and its Consequences, which defined
                         feeblemindedness as a recessive trait difficult to predict. In 1917,
                         Harvard geneticist Edward East reiterated this concept of supposed mental
                         deficiency by stating that "the 'real menace' of the
                         feebleminded...lay in the mass of invisible carriers, which constituted
                         about 7 percent of the American population, or one in every 14
                         individuals."9
                    Regardless of the influence of eugenics, Indiana was
                         ripe for progressive reform. As citizens of a swing state with a
                         traditional mindset, Hoosiers watched both their Republican and Democratic
                         parties clash over contemporary social dilemmas. During the early years of
                         the twentieth century, as electoral success shifted from the Republican
                         Party (1896-1908) to the Democratic Party (1909-1917) and then back to the
                         Republicans, Indiana witnessed a wave of
                         progressive legislation that included new laws effecting transportation,
                         child labor, and voting regulations. Most importantly, progressive
                         lawmaking in Indiana prioritized public
                         health, dependency, and prohibition.10 The state's
                         changing demographics during the early years of the century-from diminished
                         rural population growth to rapid urban growth-provoked anxieties.11
                         Indiana's leaders were not alone in
                         their fears of societal decay. Immigration, urbanization, and
                         industrialization heightened the American consciousness of poverty and
                         other social concerns. Thus the 
                              7JoAnne Brown,  Definition of a
                                        Profession: The Authority of Metaphor in the History of
                                        Intelligence Testing, 1890-1930 (Ewing, N.J., 1992), 39; Leila
                                   Zenderland, Measuring Minds: Henry Herbert Goddard
                                        and the Origins of American Intelligence Testing
                                             (New York,
                                   1998), 96; Corwin Boake, "From the Binet-Simon to the
                                   Wechsler-Bellevue: Tracing the History of Intelligence
                                   Testing," Journal of Clinical and Experimental
                                        Neuropsychology, 24 (May 2002), 385-86.
                              8For more information on intelligence
                                   testing in the United States see Brown, Definition
                                        of a Profession; Paul Davis Chapman, Schools as Sorters: Lewis M. Terman, Applied Psychology,
                                        and the Intelligence Testing Movement, 1890-1930
                                             (New York, 1988); Steven Jay
                                   Gould, The Mismeasure of Man
                                             (New York,
                                   1981); Michael M. Sokal, ed., Psychological Testing
                                        and American Society, 1890-1930 (New
                                             Brunswick, N.J., 1987); and Zenderland, Measuring Minds.
                              9Brown, Definition of a
                                        Profession, 39; Diane B. Paul, Controlling
                                        Human Heredity: 1865 to the Present
                                             (Amherst,
                                             N.Y., 1998), 43,
                                   49, 67-68 (quote).
                              10James H. Madison, The Indiana
                                        Way: A State History (Bloomington,
                                             Ind., 1986),
                                   218-26.
                              11Alexandra Minna Stern, "'We
                                   Cannot Make a Silk Purse Out of a Sow's Ear': Eugenics
                                   in the Hoosier Heartland," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, 103 (March 2007), 13-14.
                         
                          ICMD appealed to legislators because
                         it offered potential methods to monitor public health efficiently, to
                         decrease dependency scientifically, and to limit alcohol consumption.
                    The ICMD was not the state's first progressive initiative to address
                         these three concerns. In 1881, the General Assembly created the Indiana
                         State Board of Health; by 1915 it was ranked sixth nationally in program
                         efficiency by the American Medical Association.12
                         Indiana became the first state to enact a
                         compulsory sterilization law in 1907 in response to the perceived success
                         of Dr. Harry C. Sharp's use of the vasectomy on prison inmates.13 Sterilization was not explicitly mentioned in the
                         ICMD minutes, nor was it included in the recommendations of the three
                         published reports. The 1916 report, however, alludes to the
                         committee's eugenic intentions, opining that, "the number of
                         defectives increases, largely, as we are coming to know, through bad
                         heredity, syphilis, and drug habits, including alcoholism. The task before
                         the state is one not only of institutional care but of prevention."14 In considering the influence of eugenics on the
                         ICMD, examining the attitudes of its members is crucial. Dr. George S.
                         Bliss, superintendent for the Indiana School for Feebleminded Youth, and
                         Dr. Amos W. Butler, secretary of the Indiana BSC, supported to varying
                         degrees compulsory sterilization. The potential of sterilization as a
                         solution was expressed by Dr. Charles P. Emerson: Would it be wise to take one institution, for instance, that had
                              excellent records, pick out 100 families and see how many of those
                              persons had relatives that had mental defect or had been inmates of
                              penal institution in Indiana, in order to emphasize to the public the
                              unity of the mental defects and convince the public that it would take
                              some time to wipe this out; it is not a question of feeble-mindedness
                              or of epilepsy or of the criminal, but it is all one problem.15
                         
                              12Madison, The Indiana
                                   Way, 222.
                              13Angela Gugliotta, "'Dr. Sharp
                                   with His Little Knife': Therapeutic and Punitive Origins of
                                   Eugenic Vasectomy-Indiana, 1892-1921," Journal
                                        of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences, 53
                                   (October 1998), 371-406.
                              14Mental Defectives,
                                   November 10, 1916, 1.
                              15Minutes, Committee on Mental Defectives,
                                   December 17, 1915, folder—Minutes. Committee on Mental
                                   Defectives 1915, box 1, Committee on Mental Defectives, Board of
                                   State Charities (hereafter ICMD, BSC), Indiana State Archives,
                                             Indianapolis, Indiana; Osgood, "The Menace
                                   of the Feebleminded," 257, 259.
                         
                          If Emerson's intent was to
                         rehabilitate or segregate those diagnosed as mentally defective, the phrase
                         "wipe this out" seems excessively strong.
                    The resolutions of the ICMD reiterated these three concerns, especially
                         dependency. The committee prioritized the fiscal challenge of caring for
                         social dependents, stating, "the problem of the mental defective is
                         one of our greatest social as well as financial burdens and is increasing
                         in importance and weight every year."16 Despite the political
                         influence of the ICMD, the rapid increase in state spending on public
                         health did not necessarily mean that money was provided to all institutions
                         in need of funding. According to the 1915 Annual Report for the Board of
                         State Charities, occupancy in existing institutions was above recommended
                         levels, however, funding remained static. Due to these fiscal shortcomings,
                         the ICMD decided the prevention of mental illness through public
                         education would be the most effective goal of the survey.17
                    Their next step was to determine a means by which to survey the state. In
                         order to do so, the ICMD consulted both national and state organizations to
                         evaluate the effectiveness of their techniques.18 The
                         committee created a hybrid model which relied on trained field workers from
                         the Eugenics Record Office (ERO) in Cold Spring
                                   Harbor, New York,
                         and the Training School at Vineland in New
                              Jersey. The ICMD employed all women field workers
                         except ERO graduate Arthur H. Estabrook, not surprising since the ERO and
                         the Training School educated mostly women.19 ERO
                         founder Charles Davenport preferred 
                              16Mental Defectives,
                                   November 10, 1916, 1.
                              17Minutes, Committee on Mental Defectives,
                                   December 17, 1915, folder—Minutes. Committee on Mental
                                   Defectives 1915, box 1, ICMD, BSC.
                              18During preliminary meetings the ICMD heard
                                   presentations from Joseph P. Byers, the executive secretary of
                                   the National Council for the Provision of Feebleminded;
                                   Taliaferro Clark, Assistant Surgeon General; Dr. Charles W.
                                   Stiles, U.S. Public Health Service; Dr. Thomas W. Salmon, medical
                                   director of the National Council for Mental Health; Arthur H.
                                   Estabrook, Eugenics Records Office; Emma O. Lundberg, Washington,
                                   D.C. Children's Bureau; and J. I. Hoffman, Indiana State
                                   Department of Instruction. Minutes, Committee on Mental
                                   Defectives, February 4, 1916 and February 29, 1916, folder -
                                   Minutes. Committee on Mental Defectives 1916 January-February,
                                   box 1, ICMD, BSC.
                              19Amy Sue Bix, "Experiences and Voices
                                   of Eugenics Field-Workers: 'Women's Work' in
                                   Biology," Social Studies of Science, 27
                                   (August 1997), 634. No sources explicitly state that the Training
                                   School at Vineland educated only women, however, articles about
                                   its teacher training program always use feminine pronouns to
                                   refer to the teachers. See Elizabeth S. Kite, Method
                                        and Aim of Field Work at the Vineland Training School
                                             (Vineland,
                                             N.J., 1912); and
                                   Alice Morrison Nash, "The Vineland Summer School," The Training School Bulletin, 14 (1917-1918),
                                   81-86.
                         
                          training women for the study of human
                         traits because "feminine tactfulness prove[d] a most valuable
                              asset."20 Estabrook played a solely
                         administrative role during the last two surveys, thus the women worked for
                         an entirely male administrative staff.
                    During the 1916 survey, two field workers investigated counties "A"
                                   (Putnam) and "B"
                                   (Huntington). During the
                         1918-19 survey, six field workers compiled documentation and/or interviewed
                         over 4,500 individuals in counties "C" through "J"
                                   (Switzerland,
                                   Steuben, Delaware,
                                   Marshall, Warrick,
                                   Monroe, Sullivan,
                         and Boone, respectively) in addition to
                         administering 1,000 Binet-Simon tests to school children in less than a
                              year.21 Between December 1921 and May 1922, three
                         field workers conducted the final survey, consisting of a survey of county
                         "K" (Jefferson); trial
                         psychiatric clinics in the Marion County Criminal Court, Marion County
                         Juvenile Court, and City Court of Indianapolis; an assessment of the
                         "mental abilities" of the residents at the Indiana Girls'
                         School and two orphans' homes in Indianapolis; and school
                         testing-administering intelligence tests to 5,352 students-in counties
                         "X" (Richmond) and
                         "Y" (Peru).22
                    
                         20Bix, "Experiences and Voices," 636. 
                         21The ERO offered the services (for expenses
                              only) of Edith Atwood and Clara P. Pond, who were already in
                                        Indiana conducting
                              research for the Indiana Girls' School and the Northern State
                              Hospital for the Insane, and (for salary) Estabrook, who was also in
                                        Indiana researching the
                              Tribe of Ishmael. Minutes, Committee on Mental Defectives, February 4,
                              1916, folder—Minutes. Committee on Mental Defectives 1916
                              January-February, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Mental Defectives in
                                   Indiana, Second Report of the Indiana Committee on Mental
                                   Defectives, A Survey of Eight Counties, First Edition
                                        (Indianapolis,
                              December 27, 1918), 7; Mental Defectives, July 31, 1922, 5. In
                              "Experiences and Voices," Bix mentions that some of the data
                              collected from the ICMD study was returned to the ERO. County
                              assignments are attributed in Osgood, "The Menace of the
                              Feebleminded," 266, 269. Helen T. Reeves, Edna R. Jatho, Jane
                              Griffiths, Marion E. Nash, Hazel Hanford, and Edith Atwood Davis
                              worked on the second survey; Jatho, Nash, and Hansford on the third;
                                   Mental Defectives, March 6, 1919.
                         22Mental Defectives, July 31,
                              1922, 5, 32; Osgood, "The Menace of the Feebleminded," 274.
                              Survey counties were chosen for a number of reasons including the
                              major industry present and whether organizations had previously
                              assessed levels of education, mental health, or poverty. Minutes,
                              Committee on Mental Defectives, December 17, 1915, folder—Minutes.
                              Committee on Mental Defectives 1915, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Minutes,
                              Committee on Mental Defectives, January 6, 1916, folder—Minutes.
                              Committee on Mental Defectives January-February 1916, box 1, ICMD,
                              BSC; Minutes, Committee on Mental Defectives, February 4, 1916, folder
                             —Minutes. Committee on Mental Defectives January-February 1916, box
                              1, ICMD, BSC; Minutes, Committee on Mental Defectives, February 29,
                              1916, folder—Minutes. Committee on Mental Defectives
                              January-February 1916, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Minutes, Committee on Mental
                              Defectives, March 17, 1916, folder—Minutes. Committee on Mental
                              Defectives  
                    
                    
                    In much of the scholarship on American eugenics, field workers are associated
                         with the ERO, established in 1910 by Charles Davenport. Field-worker
                         training, however, began in 1904 when Superintendent Edward R. Johnstone
                         began classes for teachers at the Training School at Vineland.23 The women employed as field workers demonstrated
                         expertise in both heredity and psychology. An excellent example of the
                         training, experiences, and attitudes of many of the field workers was Edna
                         R. Jatho, a Vineland-trained teacher and field
                         worker. Jatho was well respected by her co-workers and superiors at the
                         school; she elicited the same respect during her work on the second and
                         third of the ICMD's state surveys. She was also a prolific letter
                         writer; the majority of her correspondence with Butler, Estabrook, and
                         other survey workers now resides at the Indiana State Archives.
                    Jatho was born in Philadelphia in
                         September 1887 to Theodore and Laura Jatho. Her father worked in various
                         jobs, such as a streetcar conductor and driver, while her mother cared for
                         Edna and her sister Bertha, in addition to taking in boarders. Edna
                         attended the Philadelphia Normal School, which prepared her to become an
                         elementary school teacher; she began teaching in 1906. According to two
                         short resumes written for job applications, Jatho taught "regular
                         classes," incorrigible boys, and feebleminded and retarded children in
                         the Philadelphia public schools.24
                    Early in her teaching career, Jatho's interests transitioned from
                         teaching children in traditional classrooms to teaching special needs
                         students. 
                              
                              March-December 1916, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Minutes, Committee on Mental
                                   Defectives, April 25, 1916, folder—Minutes. Committee on Mental
                                   Defectives March-December 1916, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Minutes,
                                   Committee on Mental Defectives, July 13, 1917, folder—Minutes.
                                   Committee on Mental Defectives 1917, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Minutes,
                                   Committee on Mental Defectives, December 13, 1917, folder -
                                   Minutes. Committee on Mental Defectives 1917, box 1, ICMD, BSC;
                                   Minutes, Committee on Mental Defectives, April 19, 1921, folder -
                                   Minutes. Committee on Mental Defectives 1921, box 1, ICMD, BSC;
                                   Minutes, Committee on Mental Defectives, August 19, 1921, folder
                                  —Minutes. Committee on Mental Defectives 1921, box 1, ICMD,
                                   BSC.
                              23Zenderland, Measuring Minds, 62.
                              24U.S., Twelfth Census, 1900, Population Schedules for
                                   Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania, p. 10B [page references are to
                                   the original census taker's number]; U.S., Thirteenth
                                   Census, 1910, Population Schedules for Philadelphia County,
                                   Pennsylvania, p. 1A; U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920, Population
                                   Schedules for Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania, p. 1A; City
                                   Directory of Philadelphia 1890; resumes, n.d., folder 8—Edna
                                   Jatho 1918, box 2, Correspondence G-Z, ICMD, BSC. All future
                                   references will be cited as ERJ Correspondence.
                         
                         
                         
                              The Training School at Vineland, Class of 1913. Edna R. Jatho (54)
                                   is seated in the front. Jatho and her peers were trained to teach
                                   special needs students.
                              Courtesy of the Archives of the History of American Psychology -
                                   The University of Akron
                          In order to enhance her abilities to work with
                         non-traditional students, Jatho enrolled in the Training School summer
                         course in 1913.25 Although Jatho does not directly reference her
                         experiences in her ICMD letters, the school profoundly affected her career.
                         Founded by Rev. S. Olin Garrison in 1887, the Training School became one of
                         the most respected schools for children diagnosed with feeblemindedness
                         throughout the early twentieth century. By 1904, Henry H. Goddard ran the
                         school's psychological lab and led classes for special education
                         teachers.26 Teacher training extended beyond pedagogy. For six weeks,
                         teachers lived at the school attending lectures on psychology and the
                         history of diagnostic fieldwork, and learning to diagnose intellectually
                         limited 
                              25Edna R. Jatho, "A Day in a Special
                                   Class," The
                                   Training School Bulletin, 12 (1915-1916), 242.
                              26Zenderland, Measuring Minds, 60-62.
                         
                          students, using tests such as the
                         Binet-Simon. Alice Morrison Nash, the lead teacher, stressed that
                         "impress[ing] upon every teacher the value and necessity of knowing
                         her children and then plac[ing] in her hands one of the important means of
                         getting this knowledge is well worth while."27 Teachers in the
                         Vineland program worked directly with the young residents. The summer
                         school staff, including Johnstone, Goddard, and Nash, believed
                         "training [teachers] right in the classrooms, where the children are
                         busily engaged," plus providing accommodations so the teachers would
                         be "living close to the children and knowing them out of the school
                         room," maintained the success of the program.28
                    Jatho, in addition to other graduates, returned to work in Vineland's
                         Psychological Research Laboratory with Goddard for two summers, where she
                         likely gained additional field-worker skills. In an article for The
                         Training School Bulletin, Elizabeth S. Kite, a resident field worker most
                         notably associated with the Kallikak study, describes the school's
                         ideal graduate. 
                         [The] field worker was the natural outcome of two
                              compelling forces: the application by scientists of the Mendelian law
                              of heredity to human beings and the methods of applied psychology
                              which in the past few years have revolutionized our ideas in regard to
                              social problems.29 
                         Vineland field workers used multiple methods for gaining
                         information, beginning with Binet's three-method approach to
                         diagnosis: medical, pedagogical, and psychological. In addition, field
                         workers used family interviews. Mastering these techniques required
                         precision and tact, but above all, Kite believed that "[the] field
                         worker must never forget that she is neither a missionary nor a
                         reformer—her sole business is to do a work of science, which, in this
                         particular case is the appreciation of mental states."30 
                    
                         27Nash, "The Vineland Summer School," 64.
                         28Ibid, 65. 
                         29Kite, Method and Aim of Fieldwork, [1]. For more on the Kallikak
                              study, see J. David Smith, Minds Made Feeble: The Myth and Legacy of
                                   the Kallikaks (Rockville,
                              Md., 1985).
                         30Kite, Method and Aim of Fieldwork, [5].
                    
                    
                    Any fieldwork Jatho conducted while working in the Vineland laboratory has
                         yet to be uncovered, but her supplemental work is a witness to her success
                         as a diagnostician. Joseph P. Byers, executive secretary for the National
                         Committee for the Provision of Feeble-Minded (NCPFM), recommended Jatho for
                         the ICMD position after she spoke to the council.31 Jatho
                         immediately demonstrated her prowess as a field worker when she began
                         working with Helen T. Reeves and Marion Nash on Marshall
                              County, Indiana.
                         In July 1918, Reeves wrote Butler that she would need to leave the survey
                         due to a family illness. She was not concerned over the continuation of the
                         work in her absence because Jatho and Nash demonstrated ample skills:
                         "Miss Jatho seems to be proving an able investigator. I wish she might
                         have been with us earlier in the work." With Reeves's extended
                         absence, Butler asked Jatho to fulfill her speaking engagement at the
                         Indiana Conference against Crime on July 30, 1918.32
                    Life as a field worker was challenging. Interviewing individuals outside the
                         county seat meant that the women lived in local hotels or boarding houses
                         and needed to find their own transportation. The roads were often
                         treacherous and the weather abysmal. ICMD field workers used local
                         resources to their advantage whenever possible. While surveying in
                                   Warrick County, Reeves described to Butler:
                              the roads being almost impassible on account
                              of continued rains and it is extremely difficult to get any sort of
                              conveyance either motor or horse—there being a dearth of both
                              sorts....Today Miss Jatho and I make a trip with the local undertaker
                             —business with him not being urgent. If a funeral should transpire
                              however we may be obliged to borrow his old horse hearse out of the
                              loft and survey in that.33 Their sense of
                         humor likely eased the dismal environment. In a previous letter, Jatho
                         quipped that if the highway commissioner stood behind his roads, they would
                         not be in such bad shape.
                    
                         31Joseph P. Byers to Amos W. Butler, May 22, 1918, ERJ
                              Correspondence, ICMD, BSC.
                         32Helen T. Reeves to Butler, July 8, 1918, folder—Helen Reeves, box
                              2, Correspondence G-Z, ICMD, BSC.
                         33Reeves to Butler, September 17, 1918, folder—Helen Reeves, box 2,
                              Correspondence G-Z, ICMD, BSC.
                    
                    
                    Beyond transportation issues, Jatho, Nash, and Reeves also dealt with wider,
                         unforeseeable events. From September to November 1918, the Spanish
                         influenza raced across the United States killing at least 675,000
                         people.34
                         "Today I was planning to write to you, knowing you would be wondering
                         about our work and the 'Flu,'" Jatho wrote to Butler,
                         "some of the schools have been closed for the entire time we have been
                         here." In this same letter Jatho illustrated her commitment to the
                         "work of science": "We have been able to work after a
                         fashion, but not in the direct systematic way we had planned... we have to
                         work in "spots" instead of working in entire townships as we had
                         hoped to do."35
                    Despite their hardships, Jatho reminded her correspondents that she perceived
                         her work to be purely scientific, not to mention eugenic. For their final
                         1919 ICMD survey, Jatho and Nash assessed Boone County.
                                   Thorntown, the county
                         seat, was a rural community about 11 miles from Lebanon, with a 1920
                         population of about 1,400.36 "We have done
                                   Thorntown," wrote
                         Jatho in her February 1, 1919, letter to Butler: and no one could possibly imagine that in such a
                              fine town in such a beautiful county, such a hole as
                              "Bucktown" could exist. That is what they call the slums of
                                        Thorntown. We found
                              the defectives there and today we shall get the Sheriff to tell me
                              about the immorality that I feel must be there also.37 Based on other correspondence, Jatho undoubtedly
                         formulated her assumptions from physician reports and the attitudes of
                         local residents—that her assessments could also be based on biased personal
                         opinion or memory illustrates the skewed definition of science which field
                         workers followed. The Training School instilled in its investigators the
                         belief that "[r]ural communities are comparatively fixed, traditions
                              
                              34Niall P. A. S. Johnson and Juergen
                                   Mueller, "Updating the Accounts: Global Mortality of the
                                   1918-1920 'Spanish' Influenza Pandemic," Bulletin of the History of Medicine, 76
                                   (Spring 2002), 111.
                              35Jatho to Butler, n.d., ERJ Correspondence,
                                   ICMD, BSC.
                              36"Indiana Places (Cities and Towns),
                                   1920," compiled by Stats Indiana, Indiana University from
                                   U.S. Census,
                                   http://www.stats.indiana.edu/population/PopTotals/historic_counts
                                   cities.html (accessed September 1, 2008).
                              37Jatho to Butler, February 1, 1919, ERJ
                                   Correspondence, ICMD, BSC.
                         
                         
                         
                              Family report by field worker Jane Griffiths, March 1918. Like many
                                   of her colleagues, Griffiths reported on the poor conditions of
                                   her subjects with both detail and condescension. The
                                   subjects' names are redacted for the purposes of this
                                   illustration.
                              Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                         
                          are retained, while the native
                         confidence of man for man has not suffered alteration, as is the case in
                         our congested city districts."38
                    These women were working from the mindset of the 1920s, however, not that of
                         the twenty-first century. Present-day psychologists or social workers would
                         attribute most of the challenges faced by isolated rural communities to a
                         broken economy and/or an inferior educational system. For field workers in
                         the early twentieth century, on the other hand, nature was still winning
                         the nature vs. nurture debate. The irony of field workers who began their
                         careers as teachers was that their specialized training often led them to
                         blame a person's poverty on heredity instead of on the influences of
                         societal forces often observed by teachers. Helen Reeves provides another
                         example of the innate challenges to understanding the juxtaposition of
                         early twentieth-century eugenic mental health rhetoric with the compassion
                         shown by psychologists, social workers, and case investigators.
                         Reeves's work for the Kentucky Institution for Feeble-Minded Children
                         in Frankfort, kept her away from the third
                         ICMD survey. Butler had requested that she return to Indiana, and
                         Reeves's answer told of the fine line field workers walked between
                         compassion and pity: "Indiana is attractive but there is not a state
                         in the Union that can separate me from Kentucky and the 2200 Pauper Idiots
                         who are my special charges."39 Regardless of their
                         seemingly harsh assessment of their subjects, the goal of these women was
                         the betterment of society.
                    After completing the reports for the second survey, Jatho returned to
                                   Philadelphia to
                         further develop her career in psychology. The increasing number of
                         diagnoses of feeblemindedness demonstrated to many in the field that
                         additional psychological services were needed, especially since psychology
                         departments in hospitals were rare. Desiring to professionalize their
                         field, psychiatrists and psychologists began to establish clinics in order
                         to provide services to the community.40 These clinics
                              
                              38Kite, Method and Aim of Field
                                        Work, [5].
                              39Reeves to Estabrook, April 16, 1921,
                                   folder—Helen Reeves, box 2, Correspondence G-Z, ICMD,
                                   BSC.
                              40For the history of the professionalization
                                   of psychology and psychiatry in the United
                                             States see Ludy T. Benjamin, Jr.,
                                        A Brief History of Modern Psychology
                                             (Malden,
                                             Mass., 2007);
                                   Thomas M. Camfield, "The Professionalization of American
                                   Psychology, 1870-1917," Journal of the History
                                        of the Behavioral Sciences, 9 (January 1973), 66-75;
                                   John A. Popplestone and Marion
                          offered services independently
                         or in conjunction with another institution, such as a mental hospital or
                         court system. In Philadelphia, the
                         Farmington Clinic, headed by psychiatrist Dr. Seymour DeWitt Ludlum, a
                         specialist in developmental anomalies in children, employed Jatho as the
                         clinic's psychiatric social worker for a little over two years. The
                         clinic served as a diagnostic and treatment resource for the community, the
                                   Philadelphia school
                         system, and local hospitals, which would offer medical services for
                         Farmington patients in exchange for psychological assessments of hospital
                         patients. Jatho managed many of the clinic's services including
                         initial psychiatric evaluations, intelligence and medical assessments, and
                         home visits. She would then refer a patient to the appropriate physician at
                         the clinic. In accounts of her time at Farmington, Jatho lists herself as
                         psychologist, psychiatric social worker, and office manager. If Jatho did
                         fulfill the responsibilities of all of those positions, she would have
                         gained extraordinary experience, since during its final year the clinic
                         encountered six hundred walk-in patients, in addition to patient
                         consultations through social workers, hospitals, schools, and
                              orphanages.41
                    In 1922, Jatho and Ludlum co-authored an article for the Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry.42 By
                         including Jatho as a co-author in a professional journal, Ludlum recognized
                         her as a professional peer. In the article, the authors described methods
                         used by Dr. Ludlum to diagnose and treat intestinal anomalies associated
                         with mental difficulties in children. Each case study included a
                         description of Ludlum's first examination of each child's mental
                         and physical condition, the techniques used to treat the child's
                         intestinal malformation, and the changes in the child after the treatment.
                         "[C]hildren in physical degeneration are the 
                              White McPherson, "Pioneer Psychology Laboratories in
                                   Clinical Settings," in Explorations in the
                                        History of Psychology in the United States, ed. Josef
                                   Brozek (Lewisburg,
                                             Pa., 1984),
                                   169-272; John M. Reisman, A History of Clinical
                                        Psychology, 2nd ed. (New
                                        York, 1991); Donald K. Routh,
                                   "Clinical Psychology Training: A History of Ideas and
                                   Practices Prior to 1946," American
                                        Psychologist, 55 (February 2000), 236-41; Michael M.
                                   Sokal, ed., Psychological Testing and American
                                        Society, 1890-1930 (New
                                             Brunswick, N.J., 1987).
                              41Jatho Report to ICMD, Minutes, Committee
                                   on Mental Defectives, December 14, 1921, folder—Minutes.
                                   Committee on Mental Defectives 1921, box 1, ICMD, BSC; resume
                                   enclosed in Jatho to Butler, June 12, 1922, ERJ Correspondence,
                                   ICMD, BSC.
                              42The Archives of Neurology and
                                        Psychiatry became the A.M.A Archives of
                                        Neurology and Psychiatry in January 1951. In 1959, the
                                        A.M.A. Archives of Neurology and
                                        Psychiatry split into the  Archives of
                                        Neurology and Archives of General
                                        Psychiatry
                         
                          prototypes of the chronic adult
                         cases," Jatho and Ludlum wrote, "we can, in many instances,
                         correct the physical disorders accompanying the mental manifestations, and
                         the latter will then disappear."43 Once certain
                         intestinal birth defects were corrected, often the children's mental
                         health improved.
                    If Jatho's inclusion on this article demonstrates her influence on
                         Farmington, then the incorporation of the connection between physiology
                         and psychology included in the last ICMD survey report demonstrates
                         Farmington's influence on her. The first two ICMD surveys suggested
                         routine physical and mental assessment of school-age children; however,
                         the third survey report concluded that "mental health in children is
                         closely connected with physical health," and recommended that
                         "all children whose mental development is not normal should have
                         intensive study of their physical condition and follow-up care."44
                         These conclusions demonstrate the growing understanding of connections
                         between environment and mental health.
                    Jatho owed her involvement in the final Indiana survey to Farmington; several
                         months after receiving an invitation to participate in the trial court
                         clinic planned by the ICMD, the Philadelphia General Hospital absorbed the
                         Farmington Clinic, thus freeing Jatho to work through the entire third
                              survey.45 Her first assignment during the fall of
                         1921 included several court clinics in the Marion County Criminal and
                         Juvenile Courts and the Indianapolis City Court. During a three-month span,
                         Jatho evaluated seventy-four youths referred by court employees,
                         policewomen, and other individuals. Jatho administered the Terman version
                         of the Binet-Simon test, discussed youths with current or previous case
                         workers or social workers, and in some cases conducted the complete
                         fieldwork assessment herself. Her final report, given to the ICMD in
                         December 1921, and published almost in its entirety in the 1922 ICMD
                         report, indicates Jatho's perspective on evaluative psychiatric
                         research: 
                              43Edna R. Jatho and Seymour DeWitt Ludlum,
                                   "A Study of the Internal Stigmas of Degeneration in Relation
                                   to Metabolism and Disturbance of the Cerebral Cortex in
                                   Children," Archives of Neurology and
                                        Psychiatry, 7 (February 1922), 167.
                              44Mental Defectives,
                                   November 10, 1916, 33; Mental Defectives, March
                                   6, 1919, 60; Mental Defectives, July 31, 1922,
                                   46, 9.
                              45Jatho to Butler, August 5, 1921, ERJ
                                   Correspondence, ICMD, BSC.
                         
                         
                         Physical defects, moral twists, environmental
                              influences and many other factors are involved in reaction of an
                              individual to a given situation. A study which aims to interpret
                              behavior must take into account all available information concerning
                              the individual: type of family, heredity, prenatal history,
                              conditions of birth, disease history, developmental history, physical
                              condition, school history, work history, social reactions, type of
                              recreation, incidental factors peculiar to each case, and philosophy
                              of life.46 
                         Jatho's evaluation method demonstrates her
                         growth as a diagnostician and the profound influence of her diversified
                         work experience.
                    After leaving the court clinic, Jatho joined Nash in Richmond, Indiana, to work on the third survey. Field
                         workers for previous surveys had administered intelligence tests to some
                         local children; however, the results provided in the 1916 and 1918-19
                         reports appeared as statistical data only. For the third survey, the ICMD
                         decided that a comprehensive school study would be more informative. In the
                         "Purpose of the Survey" section of the 1922 ICMD report, Jatho
                         and Nash state that "no surveys have been made in public schools prior
                         to this for the purpose of locating the mentally inferior and very inferior
                         children and detecting when possible the causes for that
                              inferiority."47 The ICMD chose the
                                   Richmond and
                                   Peru school systems for the survey
                         because the Richmond system
                         administered intelligence tests during the previous two school years and
                                   Peru represented a working-class city
                         school system.48
                    The 1921-22 school surveys demonstrate the zealous commitment ofJatho and
                         Nash to their investigations. Estabrook's original plan incorporated
                         at least five different test formats for the Richmond school survey; Jatho's
                         correspondence and the third report indicate the use of only three test
                         formats. The first was the Indiana University Primer or Cross-Out Test.
                         Designed for children who lacked proper reading skills, the Primer Test
                         presented simple pictures in groups. Test proctors asked students to choose
                         the image that did not belong or showed some anomaly 
                              46Mental Defectives, July
                                   31, 1922, 23.
                              47Mental Defectives, July
                                   31, 1922, 28.
                              48Ibid, 28-30. For correspondence regarding
                                   the Richmond school system, see folder—Richmond School Survey -
                                   Correspondence, concerning, box 2, Correspondence G-Z, ICMD,
                                   BSC.
                         
                          in comparison to the others. The
                         Mental Survey Scale No. 1, or Schedule D, asked students to consider a set
                         of words and cross out the word that did not belong. The third test was the
                         Terman version of the Binet-Simon test.49
                    The tone of Jatho's letters indicates the grueling pace of the
                                   Richmond survey. Nash and
                         Jatho arrived on December 2, 1921, with the goal of administering group
                         tests to all of the students and individual tests to students chosen by
                         their teachers as performing substantially below grade level. In
                                   Richmond, out of 3,800
                         students, 3,505 took group tests. According to the survey report, children
                         in grades K-3 took the Primer Test and students in grades 4-9 took Schedule
                         D. The report, however, does not always include the details of the survey
                         process. In a letter responding to Estabrook's concern over the amount
                         of time being spent in Richmond, Jatho reminded
                         him that they were giving both the Primer and Schedule D tests to grades 4,
                         5, and 6 creating "almost 50% more tests than there are grades"
                         to score.50
                    Estabrook demonstrated high expectations regarding the speed with which the
                         project should be finished. In response to Jatho's suggestion that
                         she and Nash utilize high school students to help score the 42 class sets
                         of Schedule D test blanks, Estabrook responded: " [G]et five or six
                         high school girls on Saturday and stay with them all day and [if] one or
                         both of you supervise the crowd it will be perfectly satisfactory. Working
                         Saturday would mean that none of them would be interfered with in their
                         school work."51 Estabrook rarely mentioned concern for the
                         amount of time Jatho and Nash were expected to commit to the project. A
                         ten- to twelve-hour Saturday most likely erased any time the 
                         investigators had planned for other aspects of the project, thus demanding
                         additional time to complete those tasks. Anxiety about Estabrook's
                         expectations appears in several of Jatho's letters. On December 18 she
                         wrote, "Do you mind if I ask what's the rush about the Juvenile
                         courtwork? If I understood the reason for the hurry I could co-operate
                         more intelligently," and again on December 30, "I wish I could
                         understand the 
                              49Estabrook to W. G. Bete [sic], October 31, 1921, folder -
                                   Richmond School Survey—Correspondence, concerning, box 2,
                                   Correspondence G-Z, ICMD, BSC; Mental Defectives, July 31, 1922,
                                   31.
                              50Jatho to Estabrook, December 18, 1921, ERJ Correspondence,
                                   ICMD, BSC.
                              51Estabrook to Jatho, January 6, 1922, ERJ Correspondence, ICMD,
                                   BSC.
                         
                          hurry that you indicate is necessary
                         at this time. It has turned out that the testing is taking longer in
                         practice than we thought it would as we planned it."52
                    In the face of Estabrook's expectations, Jatho often held her ground by
                         defending her perspective of the survey process. Estabrook suggested
                         sending test forms to the ICMD office so that the staff could help score
                         them. "The office force would not find the scoring of the papers as
                         simple a matter as it seems," Jatho suggested. "[T]he marks are
                         low enough as it is even with our understanding of the children and the
                         circumstances surrounding the tests and if they were marked arbitrarily as
                         they would have to be by outsiders the scores would not compare fairly with
                         those on the papers scored by us."53 Jatho
                         convinced Estabrook to allow more time for the Richmond survey, and she and Nash
                         remained until the end of March. In other matters Estabrook won: The tests
                         were scored in the home office.
                    In addition to scoring, writing reports, and corresponding with Estabrook,
                         Jatho spoke frequently at public functions. Several influential
                         organizations featured her as a speaker, including the Indiana Academy of
                         Science, the Indiana State Teachers' Association, and the Indiana
                         Conference on Mental Hygiene. Jatho mentioned at least four speaking
                         engagements between December 1921 and February 1922, including an address
                         to the Welfare Conference in Evansville, Indiana. At
                         one of these engagements she presented her fifteen-page report on the
                         clinics conducted in Marion County. Within her
                         report she mentioned six speaking engagements during her court research,
                         including an address to the Medical School of Indiana University. Her
                         correspondence indicates that she traveled to Muncie and Chicago for several days in December,
                         attended a lecture in Indianapolis in
                         February, and composed inquiries about conducting a clinic in the Marion
                         Juvenile Court.54 Despite all of the business travel,
                         Jatho and Nash remained in Richmond for 
                              52Jatho to Estabrook, December 18, 1921 and
                                   December 30, 1921, ERJ Correspondence, ICMD, BSC. Estabrook also
                                   expected Jatho to take two weeks in December to process cases
                                   from the clinic survey for the Marion County Juvenile
                                   Court.
                              53Jatho to Estabrook, December 30, 1921 and
                                   January 5, 1922, ERJ Correspondence, ICMD, BSC.
                              54"Report," in Minutes, Committee
                                   on Mental Defectives, December 14, 1921, folder—Minutes.
                                   Committee on Mental Defectives 1921, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Jatho to
                                   Estabrook, December 18, 1921 and February 10, 1922, ERJ
                                   Correspondence, ICMD, BSC.
                         
                          Christmas 1921; Jatho described her
                         holiday as "a quiet and not unhappy time." Her schedule
                         illustrates the expectations of survey directors, many of whom had not
                         conducted similar research themselves. Although Estabrook was a trained ERO
                         field worker, he had never conducted school surveys, nor did he ever
                         experience the time constraints placed on these women. The field of
                         psychology was becoming professionalized for both genders; however, women
                         were relegated to the lower echelons.55
                    Jatho and Nash were pushed even further on the Peru survey, finishing in about two months.
                         To Estabrook, Jatho wrote: for several days I have
                              been worrying over the fact that it is impossible for me to see the
                              way clear to finish the work here with any degree of satisfaction ...
                              we have selected for individual examination only the cases most likely
                              to give results that will be convincing and have not attempted to
                              examine many that should have our attention. In
                                   Peru, end-of-year events were driving
                         the pace of the survey, leaving the women only "four school days in
                         which to give the other 169 individual tests." During the last week of
                         school Jatho also addressed a women's meeting in
                                   Peru and the school board in
                                   Richmond.56 After Peru, she returned to
                                   Indianapolis to
                         conduct the clinic for the Marion County Juvenile Courts.57
                    As her work with the third survey concluded, she accepted a position at the
                         Indiana School for Feebleminded Youth (ISFY). She remained at the ISFY
                         until 1924, during which time she also served on the board of directors for
                         the Indiana State Department of Health. Jatho eventually returned to the
                         East Coast, becoming the superintendent of the New Jersey School for Girls
                         in Trenton by 1926. The ICMD, however, did
                         not continue its illustrious career. After being denied state funding for
                         the 
                              55According to Bix, graduates of the ERO
                                   field-worker training often found jobs at comparable pay, despite
                                   gender. See Bix, "Voices and Experiences," 634.
                              56Jatho to Estabrook, May 18, 1922, ERJ
                                   Correspondence, ICMD, BSC.
                              57Jatho to Butler, May 29, 1922, ERJ
                                   Correspondence, ICMD, BSC.
                         
                          fiscal year of 1924-25, the committee
                         met for the last time on November 7, 1924.58
                    Other than a brief mention in the introduction to the surveys, the ICMD did
                         not credit any interpretive work to its field workers. A closer examination
                         of the three volumes of Mental Defectives in Indiana,
                         however, provides proof of the field workers' input. The 1916 report
                         attributes the data gathering to the field workers, without their names.
                         The 1918-19 report provides the field workers' names, and according to
                         a letter from Jatho to Butler's secretary, the section titled
                         "What Indiana Can Do" can be attributed to
                         Jatho. The third report is the most telling because it includes the names
                         of the field workers and attributes all of the information beyond the
                         introduction and recommendations to the field workers. The committee
                         minutes verify that the report on the court studies which Jatho gave to the
                         ICMD on December 14, 1921, is verbatim to the report in the 1922 Mental Defectives.59 This final
                         report also clearly demonstrates a shift in priorities from
                         institutionalization to community care, which corresponds to the attitudes
                         of the field workers. For example, in the court studies, Jatho found that
                         32 percent of individuals tested as feebleminded, although she warned that
                         feebleminded children were often misdiagnosed, their
                         "retardation...due to causes which could have been remedied, or which,
                         if not remedied, must be taken into consideration as factors in bringing
                         about a condi- tion which resembles congenital mental defect."60 Even if the committee members themselves wrote the
                         reports, the justifications and recom- mendations illustrate the influence
                         of the ICMD field workers. 
                    Statements of the field workers' concern for the people diagnosed as
                         feebleminded appear as early as the first report, which is not surpris- ing
                         considering the amount of time and energy Jatho and her colleagues
                         committed to the surveys. As the introduction illuminates "The
                         Problem," community care is emphasized including "education and
                         
                              58The Indiana Bulletin of
                                        Charities and Correction, 136 (March 1924), 3; Jatho to
                                   Butler, November 15, 1922, ERJ Correspondence, ICMD, BSC; Jatho,
                                   "School Organization in Institutions for
                                   Feeble-Minded," Proceedings and Addresses of the Fiftieth
                                   Annual Session, Held at Toronto, Canada, June 3-5, 1926.
                                   Comprising the Journal of Psycho-Asthenics, Volume XXXI, June
                                   1925 to June 1926 (1926), 281; Osgood, "The Menace of the
                                   Feebleminded," 276. 
                              59Jatho to Laura Greely, December 5, 1918,
                                   ERJ Correspondence, ICMD, BSC; Minutes, Committee on Mental
                                   Defectives, December 14, 1921, folder—Minutes. Committee on
                                   Mental Defectives 1921, box 1, ICMD, BSC; Mental
                                        Defectives, July 31, 1922, 18-24. 
                              60Mental Defectives,July
                                   31, 1922, 19. 
                         
                         
                              Steuben
                                             County, ca. 1918. Dressed in their
                                   Sunday best, members of one family smile for the camera as the
                                   field worker evaluates their well-being.
                              Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                         
                          training of the feeble-minded youth in
                         the special schools, or classes, and in the family to some degree of
                         usefulness."61 Education continues to be a priority as
                         teacher and facility shortcomings are highlighted, followed by
                         recommendations which request "mental as well as physical examination
                         of school children."62 The connection between institutional care and
                         education of the mentally challenged obviously resides in the minds of the
                         committee; however, the immediate needs of their institutions take
                         precedence. In the final twelve recommendations of the 1916 report, ten
                         request additional services, improved facilities, or commitment
                         legislation.63
                    Education and care emerge as more important topics in the 1918-19 report.
                         The tone of the data and inclusion of more case studies demonstrate the
                         influence of the investigators. Field workers give descriptions and data
                         from ten counties, detailing the ways in which industry, fertile soil, and
                         transportation, or lack thereof, affected the local population. The women
                         evaluated several counties based on the schools and on environmental
                         factors including alcohol consumption. The tone of their descriptions
                         indicates their acknowledgement of the role of environmental factors in
                         mental and physical health. 
                    The final report, published in July 1922, strongly demonstrates the influence
                         of the field workers. From the foreword through the recommendations, the
                         tone and the included data reveal a new perspective on mental health care:
                         "Many of these mental defectives, if recognized in the early stages,
                         rightly trained and supervised, may become orderly, self-respecting members
                         of society."64 In the third report only five of the final sixteen
                         recommendations request services, facilities, or legislation. These
                         requests, however, also iterate the need for curative and educational
                         tools, defined as "scientific treatment, education, and
                         employmentment."65 
                         Also, the recommendations reiterate "the fact that care
                         and provision for the feebleminded must be divided between the home or
                         community, the public school and state institutions."66 
                    
                         61Ibid.
                         62Mental Defectives, November
                              10, 1916, 33.
                         63Ibid, 4-5, 32-33.
                         64Mental Defectives, July 31,
                              1922, 6.
                         65Ibid, 7.
                         66Ibid, 7-8.
                      
                    The sections of the report which best illustrate change are Jatho's
                         "Court Studies" and "School Studies." For the school
                         study, the report includes intelligence test scores, percentile rankings by
                         age, school comparisons by age percentile scores, percentile rankings by
                         grade, and general diagnoses of individually evaluated students. Jatho
                         emphasized her belief that environmental factors played a role in
                         intelligence by including "[c]harts and graphs to show comparisons
                         between different sections of the city" in order to demonstrate
                         "the relation between the social and economic status of these
                         community groups, and the intelligence levels of the children from such
                         communities."67 Jatho praised the Richmond Social Service Bureau for
                         providing "shower baths for the boys and girls, cooking and sewing
                         classes for the mothers and reading and other clubs for
                         parents."68 
                    The recommendations to the schools are mainly positive except for
                         Jatho's suggestion that feebleminded students "detract from the
                         value of a regular class to the normal members." Her suggestions for
                         special classes, however, are forward-thinking for the time, recommending
                         four different types of classes. First, a "coaching and
                         observation" class for students effected by "disease or
                         environment" could assuage the environmental and physical
                         difficulties so that these children "could be reclaimed and returned
                         to the regular grades." Second, a training class "for the mental
                         development of those known to be defective" could enhance mental
                         development in children diagnosed as feebleminded. Third, Jatho suggests
                         classes that provide "permanent provisions for certain selected
                         children along trade or occupational lines."69 Children in this class
                         would learn, in addition to life skills such as sewing, trade skills from a
                         teacher "well trained...in Manual Arts and Woodworking." In
                         addition, this teacher should be "very ingenious in keeping the 
                         interest of the child," providing a variety of tasks and projects to
                         increase their "mental development."70 Jatho's fourth
                         suggestion was a program for students who test at superior levels of
                         intelligence. In order to avoid leaving advanced children with
                         "undirected mental energy," Jatho suggests that teachers of
                         these students provide "special educational  
                              67Ibid, 28. 
                              68Ibid, 29. 
                              69Ibid, 44. Editors' note: The two quotes that precede this
                                   footnote were originally printed as subheadings with initial
                                   caps. For ease of reading, we have lowercased the words.
                              70Ibid, 46. 
                          opportunities."71 Jatho's
                         suggestions for special education demonstrate two growing trends of thought
                         during the 1920s. Although society still identified people diagnosed with
                         mental illness as a burden, educators increasingly believed that when
                         adequately trained, these individuals could play a productive role in
                         society. They also thought that when students were engaged through
                         pedagogy appropriate for their knowledge level and life experience, they
                         could thrive. 
                    The Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives represents the extreme influence
                         of eugenic thought during the Progressive Era. Interpreting the
                         group's overall support for human betterment based on the
                         committee's records and reports is complicated, because the 
                         priorities of the ICMD members often differed from those of the women 
                         conducting research. Field workers successfully fueled the flame of eugenics
                         and at the same time doused it. Their pedigree charts and harsh language
                         suggest eugenic intentions in their work; however, when placed in the
                         context of the growing fields of psychology and education in the early
                         decades of the twentieth century, the field workers' views on
                         eugenics, heredity, and mental health demonstrate a shift in the concept of
                         human betterment, from one of removing mentally challenged individuals
                         from society to one of improving the lives of these individuals within
                         society. These women's influence on the ICMD rises above any
                         ideological changes connected to new committee members. The data these
                         field workers provided encouraged deeper investigation of the effect of the
                         environment and education on mental health. They also insisted on adequate
                         time to complete surveys in order to assess survey participants thoroughly.
                         Beyond the surveys themselves, the women field workers understood that the
                         causes of mental illness extended beyond heredity to include social forces
                         such as poverty. Although the shift from heredity to more complicated
                         causation of mental illness did not end the eugenic movement to race
                         betterment, it did signal a reassessment of care for people with mental
                         illness.72 
                    
                         71Ibid, 45.
                         72Wendy Kline, Building a Better
                                   Race: Gender, Sexuality, and Eugenics from the Turn of the
                                   Century to the Baby Boom (Berkeley, Calif., 2001).
                    

               

               
                    Education in the Name of "Improvement" 
                    The Influence of Eugenic Thought and Practice in Indiana's Public
                         Schools, 1900-1930 
                    ROBERT OSGOOD
                    At the twentieth annual state conference of the Indiana State Board of
                         Charities and Correction, J. W. Sale, a prominent member of the board of
                         trustees for the Indiana School for Feebleminded Youth, sounded a strong
                         alarm to the state regarding its "defective citizens." Sale
                         asserted with confidence that the condition of
                         "feeble-mindedness" was largely inherited, that it was
                         "incurable," and that without proper attention it would become
                         "a tremendous burden of expense to every community." He then
                         argued that if "defectives" in Indiana were to "be gathered
                         together" and isolated from society and "the defectives of other
                         States could be prevented from entering," the ultimate result would be
                         the almost complete eradication of mental and other forms of defect
                         "within a generation." "[T]he criminal class would be
                         reduced," he claimed, and "arson, incest, illegitimacy, costs of
                         criminal prosecutions 
                              Robert Osgood is the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs for
                                   Teacher Education and Professor of Education at Muskingum
                                   University in New
                                             Concord, Ohio. He has published three books and
                                   several articles on the history of special education and
                                   disability in the United States, including two previous articles
                                   in the Indiana Magazine of History.
                           and care of
                         criminals would be lessened and eventually a great economic saving would
                         be accomplished."1 
                    Sale delivered his remarks during the height of eugenic influence on American
                         thought to an audience of like-minded reformers committed to improving
                         social conditions in Indiana. The state's
                         political and medical leadership considered eugenics a primary weapon in
                         its war against social pathology, one to be used in concert by state
                         institutions, local governments, public schools, and various social
                         services eager to rid Indiana of
                         "inferior" members of its population. Sale's comments
                         clearly reflected the then-current belief that a eugenic-based approach to
                         social melioration was both right and necessary: the terminology, the
                         alarmist tone, and the vision of a brighter future that would be free from
                         the intractable problems caused by corruptive breeding and inferior stock,
                         all represented the essence of a worldview framed by a eugenic perspective.
                         As a fundamental tenet of many Progressive-era visions of social
                         improvement, eugenics became imbedded in much of the discourse of the
                         reform movements that characterized Indiana and the nation during the early
                         twentieth century. 
                    One of the arenas in which eugenics had a strong impact was public
                         education. From 1900 to 1930 public education systems in the
                         United States
                         were shaped profoundly by Progressive-era concerns with science,
                         classification, and human betterment. This was a crucial period not only
                         for the development of public education in the nation, but also for the
                         advancement of eugenics as a factor in the development of social policy.
                         This concurrence assured that public schools would be effected
                         significantly by eugenic thought and practice. According to historian
                         Steven Selden, advocates of eugenics represented a self-appointed elite
                         group of individuals drawn from fields of medicine, public health, 
                         education, science, psychology, sociology, and politics. Many of these 
                         individuals, in turn, contributed ideas and perspectives that proved crucial to
                         public education's adaptations of eugenic principles. Given that 
                         public schools had long been considered essential vehicles for addressing
                         civic and moral issues, as well as solving social problems, it is no 
                         surprise that they became central features of efforts to advocate and 
                         implement eugenic-based policy throughout the United States. From school
                         
                              1J. W. Sale, "The Feeble-Minded,"
                                   The Indiana Bulletin of Charities and
                                        Correction (hereafter the Indiana Bulletin), 89
                                   (June 1912), 194.  
                         
                              Office of Public Schools, Indianapolis, 1905. In the
                                   first three decades of the twentieth century, public education
                                   was "shaped profoundly" by scientific theories,
                                   including eugenics. 
                              Courtesy of the Bass Photo Co. Collection, Indiana Historical
                                   Society organization to curriculum development to teacher
                         training, eugenics found its way into the psyche and soul of public
                         education: in part because schools had long been agents for social
                         progress, and in part because their emphasis on social selection,
                         differentiation, stratification, and preparation of most, if not all,
                         elements of the population rendered them natural allies in eugenics'
                         efforts to improve society. Importantly, such developments also found roots
                         in the Progressive Era, the sweeping movement that dominated American
                         society during this period.2 
                    
                         2Steven Selden, Inheriting Shame:
                                   The Story of Eugenics and Racism in America
                                        (New York, 1999), 90.
                              For other comprehensive histories of the eugenics movement in the
                                        United States
                      
                    Indiana's schools were not immune to
                         these powerful emergent forces in science and education. Indeed, in the
                         early twentieth century, many prominent educators eagerly embraced ideas
                         about the promise and limits of education based on eugenic principles of
                         hereditary fitness and race improvement. It is difficult to understand
                         completely the development of mental testing, curriculum tracking, and
                         special education in the state without grasping the role of eugenics during
                         this period. This essay explores public education in Indiana during the first three decades of the
                         1900s through the lens of hereditarian and eugenic ideas. It shows, for the
                         first time, the extent to which these ideas informed patterns of pedagogy,
                         student stratification and placement, and most importantly, the narratives
                         and policy statements of school professionals in the state. The article
                         focuses on three specific aspects of this landscape: the public language of
                         public education, the rise of mental testing and other modes of student
                         assessment, and the development of special programs for educating students
                         identified as gifted. It demonstrates that Indiana's pioneering role in the American
                         eugenics movement made the Hoosier state well primed for the serious
                         infusion of hereditarian ideas into educational theory and practice. 
                    Indiana represents an informative case
                         study of how national developments played out in a state that contained
                         both large urban as well as isolated rural school districts. School
                         personnel across the state wrestled with many of the same concerns,
                         followed many of the same 
                              see Edwin Black, War Against the Weak: Eugenics and
                                        America's Campaign to Create a Master Race
                                             (New York,
                                   2003); Mark H. Haller, Eugenics: Hereditarian
                                        Attitudes in American Thought (New
                                             Brunswick, N.J., 1963); Daniel J. Kevles,
                                        In the Name of Eugenics: Genetics and the Uses
                                        of Human Heredity (Cambridge, Mass., 1995); Wendy Kline, Building a Better Race: Gender, Sexuality, and
                                        Eugenics from the Turn of the Century to the Baby Boom
                                             (Berkeley,
                                             Calif., 2001);
                                   Donald K. Pickens, Eugenics and the
                                        Progressives (Nashville, Tenn., 1968). For some general
                                   histories of American education during this period see Lawrence
                                   Cremin, The Transformation of the School:
                                        Progressivism in American Education, 1876-1957
                                             (New York,
                                   1961); Maurice R. Berube, American School Reform:
                                        Progressive, Equity, and Excellence Movements,
                                        1883-1993 (Westport,
                                             Conn., 1994);
                                   Herbert Kliebard, The Struggle for the American
                                        Curriculum, 1893-1958, 3rd ed. (New
                                             York, 2004); David B. Tyack,
                                        The One Best System: A History of American
                                        Urban Education (Cambridge, Mass., 1974); David Nasaw, Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public
                                        Schooling in the United States (New
                                             York, 1979); Raymond E.
                                   Callahan, Education and the Cult of Efficiency: A
                                        Study of the Social Forces That Have Shaped the
                                        Administration of the Public Schools
                                             (Chicago,
                                             Ill., 1962); and
                                   William Reese, Power and the Promise of School
                                        Reform: Grassroots Movements during the Progressive Era
                                             (Boston,
                                             Mass., 1986).
                                   A recent work that melds themes in eugenics, education, and race
                                   is Ann Gibson Winfield, Eugenics and Education in
                                        America: Institutionalized Racism and the Implications of
                                        History, Ideology, and Memory (New
                                             York, 2007).
                         
                          practices, and experienced many of the
                         same expectations faced by other locations across the country. Indeed,
                                   Indiana played a sizable role in some of
                         these developments: many of its prominent public figures advocated for
                         eugenics, and the state government paid close attention to many of the
                         concerns and claims raised by those advocates. Consequently, schools in the
                         state provide a fertile ground for exploring more specific relations
                         between eugenics and school policy and practice. 
                    The history of public school development in Indiana
                         followed paths similar to those in other midwestern states, but also
                         experienced some unique turns. The original state constitution of 1816
                         addressed education only in the broadest of terms, consequently, regional
                         differences led to serious disagreements among the populace and elected
                         legislators about the necessity and appropriateness of state involvement in
                         developing common schools and supporting them through state taxes.
                         Eventually the 1816 constitution was deemed inadequate, and another
                         constitution was written and adopted in 1851. Largely through the advocacy
                         and persuasive rhetoric of Caleb Mills, then president of Wabash College,
                         the new constitution established a state-authorized school system. A state
                         superintendent of public instruction was installed in 1852, soon followed
                         by a state board of education. However, resistance to tax-supported schools
                         persisted for two decades, inhibiting the development of a statewide public
                         school structure that could be more readily found in the neighboring states
                         of Ohio and Michigan. 
                    Eventually national trends toward state-authorized school systems, supported
                         by statewide taxes, did take root in Indiana. The
                         first comprehensive compulsory education law passed the legislature in
                         1897; this was strengthened every few years, with major legislation
                         regarding school attendance or exclusion of student populations passing in
                         1901, 1913, and 1920. By the turn of the century, large cities such as
                                   Indianapolis,
                                   Fort Wayne, and
                                   Gary had their own complex school
                         districts, with Indianapolis and
                                   Gary receiving national attention for
                         progressivist approaches to teaching, curriculum, and school operation from
                         the 1890s into the 1920s. Direct state funding of local schools was
                         authorized in 1905, yet much of Indiana was still highly rural in character
                         and demography. Indeed, despite furtive movement toward a more
                         state-centered public school system, Indiana had well over 10,000 separate,
                         local agencies (districts, towns, townships) responsible for supporting
                         public education in 1890. These agencies combined featured fewer than 600
                         schools with more than one classroom. Throughout the 1910s, several state
                         agencies reported extensively about the poor quality 
                         
                              Teachers with children at Indiana Teachers College, 1914. By the
                                   turn of the century, the state had become actively involved in
                                   teacher training, promoting scientific practices of orderly
                                   environment and specialized pedagogy.
                              Courtesy of the Bass Photo Co. Collection, Indiana Historical
                                   Society
                          of many rural (as well as, to be fair, more urban) schools and
                         districts. During the latter part of the 1920s, over 6,000 one-room
                         schoolhouses still existed in every part of the state.3 
                    Teacher training in Indiana also followed national
                         developments. For much of the nineteenth century, local districts, and the
                         state in general, paid little attention to a potential teacher's
                         formal training. Indiana
                         
                              3Richard G. Boone, A History of
                                        Education in Indiana (New
                                             York, 1892), 293; Fassett A.
                                   Cotton, Education in Indiana, 1793-1934
                                             (Bluffton,
                                             Ind., 1934), 201-41;
                                   Ross E Lockridge and Herbert L. Heller, The Story of
                                        Indiana, 3rd ed. (Oklahoma
                                             City, Okla., 1958), 376-78; Annual Report of the Department of Public
                                        Instruction of the State of Indiana, For the Fiscal Year
                                        Ending September 30, 1925 ([Indianapolis], [1926]),
                                   83-85. Indianapolis schools during the
                                   late nineteenth century are prominently featured in Joseph Mayer
                                   Rice, The Public School System of the United
                                        States (New
                                        York, 1969), a reprint of
                                   Rice's series of nine articles on public schools originally
                                   published in Forum magazine from October 1892
                                   through June 1893. The unique features of Gary's schools
                                   during the Progressive Era are examined closely in Ronald D.
                                   Cohen, Children of the Mill: Schooling and Society
                                        in Gary, Indiana, 1906-1960 (New
                                             York, 2002).
                         
                          University began to provide teacher
                         training permanently in 1868; the state's first normal school (the
                         popular term for teacher training institutions at the time) opened in
                                   Terre Haute in 1870.
                         In addition, local districts continued to provide their own programs on an
                         as-needed basis, either via informal institutes or through departments in
                         traditional private or public colleges. By the early 1900s, however,
                         standardized teacher credentialing had become a much more important issue:
                         public school enrollment had increased dramatically, and states took a much
                         closer interest in the quality of the teachers found in public school
                         classrooms. A second state-supported teacher training institution opened in
                                   Muncie in 1918. Normal schools were
                         gradually replaced by public as well as private teachers' colleges by
                         the 1920s. The state became much more actively involved in not only
                         training teachers but also setting credentialing requirements. Furthermore,
                         training for special education began to take hold in the 1920s, either
                         through the state teacher training institutions or through workshops and
                         other professional development activities offered by the state school for
                         mentally disabled children in Fort
                              Wayne.4 
                    The students attending Indiana's public schools also reflected the
                         state's demographic composition in terms of ancestral origin, wealth,
                         home life, and ability to perform in school. The state was overwhelmingly
                         white in racial origin; this population had emigrated from wealthier and
                         more established New England, as well from some of the poorest areas of
                         Appalachia. Consequently, the range of socio-economic status in the state
                         was quite wide. African Americans constituted a small portion of
                         Indiana's populace. They were concentrated in the major metropolitan
                         areas closer to Chicago and
                                   Indianapolis, the
                         latter of which had a sizable and influential-although highly
                         segregated-African American community. By the late 1920s, the state's
                         school systems were typically segregated by race. 
                    The rise of special education settings for handicapped students in the state
                         paralleled national trends and reflected many of these conditions and
                         assumptions. In an 1896 article, Ernest Bicknell, secretary of the Indiana
                         Board of State Charities and Correction (BSC) at the time, 
                              4Boone, A History of Education in
                                        Indiana, 381-401; Cotton, Education in
                                        Indiana, 352-68; Charles A. McGonagle, "Teacher
                                   Training Course at the School for Feeble-Minded Youth," Indiana Bulletin, 181 (April 1930), 160-62; L.
                                   P. Harshman, "Training Teachers for Special Classes,"
                                        Indiana Bulletin, 191, 192 (March and
                                   April 1931), 206-209.
                         
                          stated that of approximately 95,000
                         "feeble-minded persons in the United States,"
                         5,568 lived in Indiana. This compared with
                                   Illinois (5,249), Ohio (8,235), and Michigan (3,218). Indianapolis's estimated number of
                         such residents (230) was dramatically lower than that of
                                   Chicago (2,500) and even
                                   Cincinnati (460).
                         Although the compulsory attendance laws of 1901 and 1913 technically still
                         prohibited enrollment of students deemed unfit to receive school
                         instruction, the annual state superintendent reports saw a dramatic
                         increase in the amount of information and discussion dedicated to special
                         classes and services during the early 1900s. The 1925 report lamented the
                         sizable presence of "misfits" in Indiana public schools, and
                         openly questioned "if such children will fill a more serviceable place
                         in society than if they had been left to grow up in isolation and totally
                         ignorant of the fundamentals of good government." The 1924 report gave
                         an indication of the scope of the investment to that point: out of a total
                         of 614,212 elementary and secondary school students in Indiana, only 1,557
                         were in special classes for those "mentally and physically
                         deficient"; all of these were in city districts. That number increased
                         dramatically following a 1931 law which provided state support to local
                         districts for such classes and programs.5 
                    Throughout the early 1900s, Indiana could claim a central
                         role in efforts to promote eugenics-based policies and practices in the
                                   United
                                   States, being home to several individuals
                         who had achieved national prominence by addressing social and individual
                         conditions such as insanity, mental defect, poverty, and poor health. As
                         superintendents of the Indiana Asylum for Feebleminded Youth, Alexander
                         Johnson and George Bliss were national figures in the practice of
                         institutionalization for persons identified as feebleminded. Amos Butler
                         was widely known for his work as a zoologist and lengthy tenure as the
                         secretary of the Indiana Board of State Charities, a position which
                         provided a forum for his definitive views on the consequences of mental
                         defect and the troubling proliferation of inferior persons and families.
                         The state also 
                              5Ernest Bicknell, "Feeble-Mindedness as
                                   an Inheritance," in the Proceedings of the
                                        National Conference of Charities and Correction, Isabel
                                   C. Barrows, ed. (Boston, Mass., 1896), 219-20; Annual Report of the Department of Public
                                        Instruction of the State of Indiana, For the Fiscal Year
                                        Ending September 30, 1925 ([Indianapolis], [1926]), 117;
                                        Report of the Department of Public Instruction
                                        of the State of Indiana, For the Fiscal Year Ending
                                        September 30, 1924 (Indianapolis, 1925), 5;
                                   Robert L. Osgood, "From 'Public Liabilities' to
                                   'Public Assets': Special Education for Children with
                                   Mental Retardation in Indiana Public Schools, 1908-1931,"
                                        Indiana Magazine of History, 98 (September
                                   2002), 203.
                         
                          collaborated directly with the
                                   New York-based Eugenics Record Office
                         (ERO), an organization referred to as "the epicenter of the American
                         eugenics movement" during the 1910s and 1920s. The ERO worked closely
                         with the state to support research commissioned by the Indiana Committee on
                         Mental Defectives (ICMD). This group, formed by Governor Samuel Ralston in
                         1915, and funded by Ralston and two succeeding governors until 1925,
                         sponsored sweeping field research projects designed to determine the nature
                         and extent of feeblemindedness in the state and develop policies to reduce,
                         and ultimately eradicate, the condition. Many of the ERO's
                         investigations focused on school operations. Indiana also contributed its own families to the
                         infamous collection of hereditary studies of defectiveness and degeneracy,
                         including the Dorbets and the Tribe of Ishmael. Consequently, advocates as
                         well as critics of eugenics across the country paid close attention to what
                         happened in Indiana.6 
                    Interestingly, Indiana's preoccupation
                         with inferior students and its application of the principles of eugenics to
                         its population focused much more intently on defect associated with
                         national origin and immigrant status than on the concept of race as a
                         biological construct. While the term "race" was used extensively
                         throughout the United States at the time, its context in
                         eugenics coincided as much with what we today would term ethnicity or
                         national heritage, as with fundamental genetic racial distinctions among
                         humans. As noted earlier, the state's number of African American
                         residents during the early 1900s was quite small, with most living in
                         segregated sectors of the largest cities. In contrast, the political and
                         educational leaders of the state responded knowingly to the pervasive
                         anti-immigrant sentiments of the early twentieth century. Fueled largely by
                         H. H. Goddard's determinations that most immigrants coming through
                         Ellis Island were "moron" grade or lower in terms of intellect,
                         such sentiments translated into direct condemnation of whites who relocated
                         to Indiana from Appalachia, a view which
                         historian Alexandra Minna Stern captures vividly as "beware the
                                   Kentucky hill-folk." Stern describes
                         how social reformers, especially field workers 
                              6Jason S. Lantzer and Alexandra Minna Stern,
                                   "Building a Fit Society: Indiana's Eugenics
                                   Crusaders," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                                        History, 19 (Winter 2007), 8. For a detailed discussion
                                   of these developments see Robert L. Osgood, "The Menace of
                                   the Feebleminded: George Bliss, Amos Butler, and the Indiana
                                   Committee on Mental Defectives," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 97 (December 2001), 253-77.
                         
                          hired by the ICMD, stressed the
                         drastically inferior character of Appalachian whites found in rural areas
                         of the state. The widespread suspicion of this "folk"-coupled
                         with assumptions about their hereditary lineage and consequent degenerate
                         qualities, as well as their significant numbers-assured that the focus of
                         efforts to "improve the race" would be on them. As with other
                         districts across the nation, Indianapolis did establish racially segregated
                         classes for defectives in its schools. However, the vast majority of these
                         children were ethnic whites, and discussions of defective children in
                         schools rarely if ever made note of whether a child was white or black.7 
                    The state focused on the importance of the medical and intellectual
                         inspection of all children as well as the need for all public social
                         service agencies to categorize, stratify, and otherwise organize children
                         and their families to promote social efficiency and a eugenic philosophy.
                         While by no means the only sites where such practices were to occur,
                                   Indiana schools assumed a key role in these
                         initiatives. In each of its three major reports-issued in 1916, 1918-19,
                         and 1922-the ICMD addressed the importance of public education in improving
                         the genetic stock of Indiana residents. The reports
                         included studies of specific school districts, rural as well as urban, that
                         analyzed the number of feebleminded children, described the structures to
                         accommodate them, and offered recommendations for further action. State
                         conferences, such as those of the Indiana State Teachers Association,
                         featured state school officials as well as speakers with national
                         reputations who called on public schools to assume central roles in
                         effectively differentiating among "superior and inferior stocks"
                         of people. With public schools leading the charge in sorting children,
                         testing their mental capacities, and making employment decisions for them
                         based on their measured intelligence, school performance, and family
                         background, Indiana had a system in place that
                         manifested much of the eugenics agenda.8
                    
                    
                         7Alexandra Minna Stern, "'We Cannot
                              Make a Silk Purse Out of a Sow's Ear': Eugenics in the
                              Hoosier Heartland," Indiana Magazine of
                              History, 103 (March 2007), 3-38. Stern offers a highly useful
                              analysis of issues of race and ethnicity as they relate to eugenics in
                                        Indiana. Indeed, these
                              issues are highly complex and problematic when making historical and
                              contemporary comparisons of views on these constructs. See David R.
                              Roediger, Working toward Whiteness: How America's
                                   Immigrants Became White: The Strange Journey from Ellis Island to
                                   the Suburbs (New
                                   York, 2005); and Matthew E Jacobsen, Whiteness of a Different Color: European Immigrants and
                                   the Alchemy of Race (Cambridge, Mass., 1998). David Theo
                              Goldberg's Racial Subjects: Writing on Race in
                                   America (New York, 1997) provides a more general
                              perspective. 
                         8Osgood, "From 'Public Liabilities,'"
                              208-15.
                          
                    EUGENICS AND THE LANGUAGE OF SCHOOLS
                         As acknowledged and established agents of social policy, public schools
                              in Indiana offered a regular stream of
                              published policy statements, regulations, and explications whose
                              terminology and assumptions reflected the dominant strain of eugenic
                              thought in the early 1900s. Of course, determining what constitutes
                              the language of eugenics is a highly complex task, one well beyond the
                              scope of this particular essay and discussed most competently by other
                              scholars. Nevertheless, those involved in public education employed
                              language that was often found in more general studies and discussions
                              of eugenics. While not obviously distinguishable from the language of
                              Progressivism, such terms—and the school contexts in which they
                              regularly appeared—clearly drew on significant elements of eugenic
                              thought and practice. 
                         In Indiana, the connective networks among
                              state-operated agencies meant that certain common theories regarding
                              societal conditions and social development affected policy in a wide
                              array of social services, including schools and other formal
                              educational settings. Consequently, statements of leaders such as
                              Butler, Bliss, and Johnson—often expressed through conference
                              addresses or formal statements of organizations such as the
                              BSC—reflected prevailing attitudes of most of those involved in
                              delivering social services. When Butler pronounced that "[a]s
                              each agency takes up the work with boys or girls, or men or women, it
                              recognizes that feeble-mindedness is one of the great causes of
                              pauperism, vice, immorality, crime, degeneracy, and that it is an
                              increasing cause .... the feeble-minded population [is] increasing at
                              practically twice the rate of the normal population," few
                              questioned the accuracy or authority of his assertion. When Bliss
                              pointedly stated, "I should be faithless to my duty did I not
                              point out to you the great menace to this state, of leaving the 4,500
                              feeble-minded, now at large in our communities, to their own devices,
                              to marry and reproduce their kind, to fill the police courts of our
                              larger towns and cities, to augment the supply of prostitutes and
                              paupers, as well as the other forms of vice to which a degenerate will
                              surely turn," his alarm was considered reasonable and noteworthy.
                              When Johnson claimed that "[i]t is known, with certainty, that of
                              all physical or mental traits which are passed down by heredity from
                              parent to child, these peculiar traits which we call idiocy and
                              imbecility, are the most certain to be inherited. Think then what we
                              are doing when we are neglecting these poor creatures. We are allowing
                              a steady increase of a most undesirable class of citizens; we are
                              building  up the burden which our
                              children must bear," the apparent need for social institutions to
                              recognize and address the hereditary dangers of mental disability
                              demanded little if any extra incentive to do just that.9 
                         Statements of school professionals during the early 1900s clearly
                              reflected this dominant ideology. Reports of the BSC in 1916 and 1920
                              emphasized the fixed, inherited nature of mental defect and toed the
                              eugenic line regarding its impact on society: "It is from these
                              unfortu- nates that the ranks of pauperism and vice and crime are
                              chiefly recruited . . . feeble-mindedness complicates every form of
                              social activity, the home, the school, the community," stated the
                              1916 report. "We . . . know that moral and mental characteristics
                              are inherited and behave exactly like physical characters," wrote
                              Donald DuShane, superintendent of the Columbus, Indiana, public schools in 1926.
                              DuShane was a prominent Indiana
                              educator who wrote extensively about school administration issues
                              related to special populations. He also served as secretary of the BSC
                              for a time during the 1920s. "An individual's musical,
                              literary and mathematical ability, moral strength or weakness,
                              cheerful or morose disposition, intellectual ability and quality of
                              temper are determined by the germ plasm of his parents and not by
                              their conduct or training," he argued, adding that public schools
                              needed to serve as agents for solving social problems.10 
                         George Carroll, superintendent of the Terre
                                   Haute public schools, commented that a
                              major public school responsibility was "to find these misfits as
                              soon as possible and give them the special attention that they
                              require." Even so, the notion that feebleminded schoolchildren
                              were, because of their fixed condition, unteachable students and
                              undesirable schoolmates found support from Adelaide Baylor of
                                        Indianapolis:
                              "Nothing is more disheartening and discouraging than the effort,
                              day after day and week after week, to work on barren soil and find not
                              the 
                                   9Amos Butler, "Some Aspects of Our
                                        Problem," Indiana Bulletin, 105 (June
                                        1916), 65; George Bliss, "The Future Care of the
                                        Feeble-Minded," Indiana Bulletin, 105
                                        (June 1916), 62; Alexander Johnson, "The State and Her
                                        Weakest Children," Indiana Bulletin,
                                        33 (June 1898), 105. For an informative discussion of
                                                  Indiana's
                                        efforts to coordinate social services efficiently see
                                        Johnson, "Co-ordinating the Work of Social Welfare
                                        Agencies," Indiana Bulletin, 135
                                        (December 1923), 325-30.
                                   10Twenty-Seventh Annual
                                             Report of the Board of State Charities of Indiana
                                                  (Fort Wayne,
                                                  Ind., 1917),
                                        116; Thirty-First Annual Report of the Board of
                                             State Charities of Indiana (Fort Wayne,
                                                  Ind., 1921),
                                        116; Donald DuShane, "Presidents Address: Social
                                        Problems and the Public Schools," Indiana
                                             Bulletin, 147 (December 1926), 352-53.
                              
                               slightest trace of fruitage after
                              strenuous efforts. . . . The appearance, manner, and conduct of
                              feeble-minded children, especially those of the lower types are
                              oft-times unwholesome and positively pernicious to delicate, sensitive
                              children. . . . [Their] presence ... is one of the grave problems for
                              the school people of this state and country." Hazel Hansford, a
                              field worker for the ICMD, described how such concerns spilled over to
                              rural schools as well: she depicts in detail her visit to the
                              "dilapidated" Chestnut Ridge school in rural
                                        Monroe County, which
                              served "'the sulkiest brats' that [the teacher] had
                              ever seen." She commented that "[w]here the stock is
                              uniformly poor as it is in this place, it looks like an uphill job for
                              any teacher or social worker."11 
                         Nevertheless, schools in Indiana
                              and elsewhere eventually did assume a large share of responsibility
                              for addressing the presence of inferior stock in general, and
                              feeble-mindedness in particular. For many, the idea of placing
                              inferior children in public school settings proved highly appealing.
                              In special classes taught by specially trained teachers and using a
                              specially designed curriculum, such children could make significant
                              progress. "The public school which employs modern methods of
                              determining to about what type of education and at about what rate
                              each child is capable of responding . . . will be meting out justice to
                              more nearly all its children," wrote Herman Young of Indiana
                              University in 1924. Ultimately, according to John Brown, secretary of
                              the BSC in 1928, public schools were to become a key element of
                              "community organization which includes facilities for the
                              identification of those who are feeble-minded, proper facilities for
                              their education, training and supervision; and segregation for those
                              who are an active social menace." Social agencies, supposedly
                              operated with care and thought by civic leaders, were thus charged
                              with acknowledging the superiority of some members of society over
                              others and implementing policies designed to maintain that superiority
                              and minimize the alleged negative impact of social defects of varying
                              backgrounds and descriptions.12 
                         
                              11George C. Carroll, "Defective and Retarded Children as a
                                   School Problem: Special Classes in Terre Haute," Indiana
                                   Bulletin, 180 (March 1930), 66; Adelaide Steele Baylor, "The
                                   Problem of the Feeble-Minded in the Public Schools," Indiana
                                   Bulletin, 107 (December 1916), 393-94; Hazel Irene Hansford,
                                   "A Social Study of Mental Defectives in County H., Indiana,
                                   in 1918," Indiana University Studies, 10, study no. 59
                                   (September 1923), 140-41. 
                              12Herman H. Young, "Experiments in Public Schools,"
                                   Indiana Bulletin, 136 (March 1924), 28; John A. Brown, "The
                                   Mental Defective as a Social Problem," Indiana Teacher, 72
                                   (April 1928), 14.  
                         This commitment to fundamental principles of eugenics and progressivist
                              social efficiency entered smoothly into stated missions of schools and
                              school districts. In Terre
                                   Haute, for example, public schools
                              emphasized instilling in defective students the ability "to
                              develop self-appraisal, self-direction, self-control and cooperation
                              with others"-in other words, to become compliant citizens,
                              "useful to society in any humble capacity in which they can
                              function with contentment to themselves . . . Their desires must be so
                              guided and directed that they will desire to do the right thing at the
                              right time." In Bloomington, school officials insisted
                              to the public that the teaching of mentally defective students need
                              not include academic work because "we decided [they] could not
                              learn." When challenged by "the courts or somebody" who
                              said "How do you expect him to learn if you do not try to teach
                              him?" Herman Young, an Indiana University professor and
                              consultant to the Bloomington
                              school district, advised district teachers "to keep on for awhile
                              trying to do the impossible, trying to give these children academic
                              work when they cannot learn it in order to convince people that they
                              cannot do it." The message that there were inferior and superior
                              groups in society and that those of superior stock had the right to
                              make crucial assumptions and decisions regarding the lives of the less
                              fortunate came through clearly.13 
                         It is important to note, however, that the language of eugenics had to
                              compete with emerging languages promoting attention to individual
                              student differences and supporting special education programs in
                                        Indiana's public
                              schools. Developmental and other more child-centered approaches to
                              public school instruction also factored into progressivist thought and
                              carried into discussions of the best ways to teach children with
                              various defects or deficiencies. Rationales emphasizing social
                              efficiency and control and those stressing individual student need and
                              betterment both supported segregated special education instruction for
                              students with disabilities, yet they represented different views of
                              the appropriate content of such instruction. For the former, schools
                              were expected to socialize children and train them to the maximum
                              extent possible in some form of productive, employable skill so that
                              they would be neither a public burden nor a public irritant. For the
                              latter, schools were charged with understanding a child's natural
                              abilities and tailoring 
                                   13Carroll, "Defective and Retarded
                                        Children," 65; Young, "Experiments in Public
                                        Schools," 28.
                              
                               an instructional program that
                              recognized possibilities as well as limitations to help them develop
                              to their maximum individual potential. As Dr. Charles Wilson of
                                        Evansville argued,
                              "our educators are attempting to individualize education-to help
                              each child to develop to the fullest extent all of his or her
                              potential abilities . . . it is a responsibility of every school
                              system to see that provision is made to educate each child according
                              to his or her individual endowments." Separate classes and
                              programs that varied widely in the ratio of academic to vocational
                              content came to characterize public school special education. 
                    
                         EUGENICS, SCHOOLS, AND THE TESTING OF STUDENTS 
                         The Progressive Era embraced not only much of the substance of eugenic
                              thought, but also notions of objective and scientific approaches to
                              addressing individual and social issues-and alleged pathologies. The
                              multifaceted public attack on social ills involved schools, hospitals,
                              social service agencies, benevolent institutions, and limited local
                              government working to identify problems and apply the best
                              scientific principles and practices to determine appropriate
                              solutions. As a respected manifestation of presumed scientific thought
                              and investigation, eugenics validated the concept of examining
                              individuals in detail—their character, background, and demeanor—in
                              order to ascertain their appropriate role in a modern, efficient
                              society. And as a cornerstone of the execution of social policy,
                              public schools naturally became centers of such individual and group
                              examinations. These included mental testing as well as medical and
                              psychological assessments of children at schools or available clinics.
                              The role of the school as a center for comprehensive child assessment,
                              and of the clinic as a means to expand such testing to reach more
                              children, constituted another eugenically influenced arena of social
                              betterment.
                         Standardized individual and group intelligence testing in
                                        Indiana followed patterns
                              established elsewhere across the country: initial use of individual
                              Binet-Simon tests on selected students beginning in the latter 1910s,
                              followed by rapid expansion to large-scale group intelligence testing
                              involving hundreds of thousands of American schoolchildren every year
                              beginning in the early 1920s. Such testing gained wide advocacy and
                              use because it was openly promoted and accepted as a valid, reliable
                              means of slotting students into appropriate classrooms and programs,
                              thus facilitating the schools' function as a sorter and trainer
                              of  children. In addition,
                              according to proponents of eugenics, the scientific objectivity of the
                              IQ score reinforced notions of the hereditary and fixed nature of
                              intelligence, and validated direct social control over inferior groups
                              such as African Americans and immigrants from southern and eastern
                              regions of Europe. For example, Jane Griffiths, an official with the
                              Utah State Department of Education, gave a 1917 speech before the
                              Indiana State Teachers Association in which she advocated extensive
                              mental testing of all American public school children. Five years
                              later, Arthur Estabrook of the ERO described the extensive use of
                              mental testing for children and adults in twelve counties throughout
                                        Indiana, including the
                              cities of Richmond and
                                        Peru, as well as in the
                              state institution at Fort
                                   Wayne, courts, hospitals, and prisons -
                              all as part of surveys conducted by the ICMD. Consequently, public
                              school officials in Indiana almost
                              universally proclaimed mental testing a key factor in helping schools
                              do their jobs.14 
                         Testing configurations ranged from large groups of children in sizable
                              urban districts to a few pupils in much smaller-scale sites. With the
                              development of group mental testing around 1920, districts began
                              expanding their programs. Cities including Indianapolis,
                                        Gary,
                                        Fort Wayne, and
                                        Evansville began
                              cautiously administering individual mental testing during the latter
                              1910s; by 1930, districts in Terre
                                   Haute, Shelbyville, and
                                        Bloomington had
                              fully operationalized mental testing programs for all enrollees. Test
                              scores were used extensively to stratify students in attempts to make
                              school systems run efficiently and to track students into appropriate
                              courses of study. Smaller, more rural districts in the state trailed
                              in such developments due to low numbers of students and lack of
                              resources for testing. Even so, Hansford used the Stanford Revised
                              Scale in 1918 at the rural Chestnut Ridge school, where she tested
                                   
                                   14Jane Griffiths, "Mental
                                        Defectives in the Schools," Proceedings
                                             and Papers of the Indiana State Teachers Association,
                                             October 31, and November 1, 2, 4, 1917,
                                             Indianapolis (Crawfordsville,
                                                  Ind., [1918]),
                                        171-79; Arthur H. Estabrook, "The Work of the Indiana
                                        Committee on Mental Defectives," Proceedings and Addresses of the Forty-Sixth Annual
                                             Session Held at St. Louis, Missouri, May 18, 19, and
                                             20, 1922. Comprising The Journal of Psycho-Asthenics,
                                             Volume XXVII, June 1921 to June 1922 (1922),
                                        12-17; Osgood, "From 'Public
                                        Liabilities,'" 213-15. An excellent, thorough
                                        discussion of the problematic ascendance of mental testing
                                        in the United
                                             States is found in Stephen Jay
                                        Gould, The Mismeasure of Man
                                        (New York,
                                        1981). On the linkages among race, ethnicity, and
                                        intelligence testing see, for example, H. H. Goddard,
                                        "The Binet Tests in Relation to Immigration," Journal of Psycho-Asthenics, 18 (December
                                        1913), 105-10; Goddard, "Mental Tests and the
                                        Immigrant," Journal of Delinquency, 2
                                        (September 1917), 243-77; and Gould, Mismeasure
                                             of Man. 287
                              
                              
                              
                                   "Cross-out" test, Indiana University Department of
                                        Psychology, ca. 1920. In addition to evaluating
                                        students' "verbal ingenuity," the test
                                        examined logical and arithmetical skills, and moral
                                        judgment.
                                   Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                              
                              
                              
                                   Cross-out test instructions.
                                   Courtesy of the Indiana State Archives
                               nineteen students and found fifteen to be feeble-minded. In
                              its 1919 and 1922 reports, the ICMD featured the results of mental
                              testing in a wide range of rural as well as urban areas in the
                                   state.15 
                         Intelligence testing to ascertain IQ scores and use the results in
                              program planning constituted only a part of schools' efforts to
                              assess children's mental, physical, and psychological states for
                              broader purposes of social engineering. Indeed, by the 1920s, calls
                              were appearing with regularity for comprehensive examinations of all
                              schoolchildren, either at schools or in other appropriate settings. To
                              enhance access to such testing for children and families throughout
                              the state, and to underscore the importance of effective child
                              assessment in ensuring societal health, Indiana supported a number of clinics.
                              Known varyingly as out-patient, traveling psychiatric, mental hygiene,
                              free mental, or by other terms, these facilities offered a variety of
                              medical and psychological examinations, usually at no cost to the
                              clients. However, these clinics varied greatly in terms of the kinds
                              of examinations offered and the extent to which counseling or
                              treatment was provided to parents and other interested parties.
                              Clinics could be supported through school districts, local
                              governments, social service agencies or associations, or institutions
                                   
                                   15Hansford, "A Social Study,"
                                        139-41; Osgood, "Menace of the Feebleminded,"
                                        269-76.
                              
                               (such as the Indiana School for
                              Feebleminded Youth). County fairs, popular sites for "better
                              baby" and "better family" competitions during this
                              time, also frequently hosted such clinics to examine the health of the
                              state's children. The clinics achieved recognition as a crucial
                              element in bringing such testing to all Indiana citizens, regardless of
                              residence or income.16 
                         Schools used these clinical assessments to place children in appropriate
                              programs and classes, encourage correct social and hygienic behaviors
                              on the part of families, and organize Indiana's future adults into groups and
                              occupations that would support an efficient, healthy, and stratified
                              society. The clinics proved essential to the work of the schools
                              because they brought resources, expertise, and tests to school
                              districts and communities that otherwise would not have been able to
                              engage in screenings of children and families. Data gathered by
                              clinics could be provided to the schools, so that the latter would not
                              have to invest their often limited resources on this expensive work.
                              In cases where clinic staffers also worked for the schools, the
                              sharing of resources likely became more valuable to the districts.
                              With the clinics offering assessments, and the schools doing further
                              testing and follow up—such as tracking students according to test
                              results—societal efforts to assess, monitor, and mold as many children
                              as possible for purposes of improvement took a more formal and
                              predictable path. This complementary work exemplified a relatively
                              effective—if limited—effort to coordinate an array of social services
                              for the assumed betterment of society. "Our traveling mental
                              clinic has already fully demonstrated its great value to the schools
                              and other institutions of the state," commented the directors of
                              the Indiana School for Feebleminded Youth in their 1924 annual report.
                              "We are greatly encouraged by the attitude of those 
                              superintendents who have already availed themselves of the services of the
                              clinic for their schools."17 
                         School districts used mental testing data to plan courses of study and
                              stratify students, attempting to guide children along the lines of
                                   
                                   16Edna R. Jatho, "The Mental
                                        Clinic," Indiana Bulletin, 136 (March
                                        1924), 29-30; Harold S. Hulbert, "School Clinics,"
                                             Indiana Bulletin, 191, 192 (March and
                                        April 1931), 217-23; Ralph N. Tirey, "Mental Hygiene
                                        and the Public Schools," Indiana
                                             Bulletin, 167 (February 1929), 66-72; and
                                        "Mental Defectives and the Schools," Indiana Teacher, 71 (January 1927), 15.
                                   17Forty-Sixth Annual
                                             Report of the Indiana School for Feeble-Minded Youth,
                                             Fort Wayne, Indiana (Indianapolis, 1925),
                                        7.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Sewing Class at Public School No. 13, Indianapolis, 1922.
                                        Vocational training for girls included education in modern
                                        skills such as court reporting as well as in traditional
                                        skills such as sewing.
                                   Courtesy of the Bass Photo Co. Collection, Indiana Historical
                                        Society
                               their predicted life paths. Town school officials such as
                              Charles Wilson, George Carroll, Herman Young, and
                                        Shelbyville's William Vogel wrote
                              detailed descriptions of the ways in which test results informed
                              decisions regarding curriculum and placement. While most discussions
                              centered on programs for defective children, test results also began
                              to be used to determine (and in many cases justify) placement of
                              children in vocational tracks, as well as to develop programs for
                              children considered unusually intelligent.18 
                         
                              18Wilson, "Special Provisions," 214-17; Carroll,
                                   "Defective and Retarded Children," 63-65; Young,
                                   "Experiments in Public Schools," 26-28; William E
                                   Vogel, "Mental Hygiene in the Public Schools," Indiana
                                   Bulletin, 155 (February 1928), 34-36.  
                    
                         EUGENICS AND SPECIAL EDUCATION: SUPPORTING SUPERIOR CHILDREN
                         By 1930, most sizable Indiana school districts
                              had some form of special education for children with disabilities,
                              particularly those with mental retardation, chronic illness, physical
                              limitations, or behavioral problems. One mode of specialized
                              instruction that did not receive as much attention, in terms of the
                              number of students and programs in schools, was that for children
                              identified as superior or gifted. Ironically, in the stratified world
                              of public schooling little room had been made at the top for the
                              state's brightest children who represented the best that the
                              American "race" had to offer. In fact, the notion of a
                              specialized gifted education started slowly throughout the
                                        United States. However, attention
                              accelerated with the widespread use of group intelligence testing and
                              with the belief that society needed to identify and nurture its future
                              leaders. Although Indiana established few
                              noteworthy programs in gifted education before 1930, a review of the
                              national picture during the 1920s places state efforts in the context
                              of eugenic thought and school practice. 
                         While much of eugenic ideology had been applied to pathological
                              conditions, these ideas and principles also advanced the cause of
                              superior groups of people. Positive eugenics' emphasis on
                              arranging human genetics to improve society through careful
                              identification and breeding of the nation's strongest, most
                              vigorous, and most talented clearly exemplified this aspect of the
                              field. Consequently, eugenicists put a great deal of energy into
                              researching and discussing the hereditary nature of intelligence and
                              the ways in which the precious national resource of smart, talented
                              citizens could best be utilized. The work, and intellectual lineage,
                              of Francis Galton, E. L. Thorndike, H. H. Goddard, Lewis Terman, and
                              Leta Hollingworth underscored this concern. All advocated thinking
                              about ways in which the superior elements of society could best be
                              harnessed in the causes of race betterment and social improvement.
                              All viewed intelligence as an inborn trait, with the brightest minds
                              almost always coming from—and staying within—the best families. And
                              all proposed various means of convincing these superior societal 
                              members to accept their role at the top and serve society by reproducing
                              at greater rates. These methods ranged from public exhortation to
                              offers of significant financial incentives for producing more
                              children. Supporting and incentivizing society's finest to
                              reproduce more frequently and claim their right to a privileged social
                              position became, to some eugenicists, as  important as earlier efforts to
                              identify, isolate, and eventually extinguish those on the opposite end
                              of the societal spectrum.19 
                         These particular eugenic priorities were perhaps most strongly and
                              unapologetically articulated by Hollingworth. A student of Thorndike
                              and a faculty member at Teachers College of Columbia University,
                              Hollingworth wrote a highly regarded text entitled Gifted Children:
                              Their Nature and Nurture. Published in 1926, the volume focused on
                              methods of educating gifted children but was infused with the language
                              of eugenics. Hollingworth saw little value in directing social
                              policy and precious resources toward efforts to improve the inferior
                              ranks of society, including the mentally disabled, the criminal, the
                              destitute—those whom she referred to as "biologically unfortunate
                              and socially undesirable deviates." Instead, she argued that
                              American society should use its resources to strengthen those at the
                              top of the social realm who, because of heredity, were able to
                              benefit from intervention on their behalf. Hollingworth's
                              conviction that ethnicity was a highly reliable predictor of innate
                              intelligence and social abilities led her to openly question social
                              programs, including those of the public schools, designed to improve
                              the conditions of the lesser elements of society. She believed that
                              public support for special education programs for defective children
                              was a waste and that school resources would be better distributed to
                              the brightest children in school, leading to greater long-term
                              return on investments. Much of her language and argument reveals an
                              open disdain for certain groups of individuals, as well as an
                              entrenched frustration at society's failure to recognize the role
                              the highest classes could and should play in social improvement.20 
                         From a school perspective, Hollingworth's frustrations were 
                              understandable. Historically, children considered to be among the brightest
                              in school had enjoyed few efforts to recognize their talents and
                              provide special opportunities for their development. By the 1920s, a
                              few cities had experimented with special classes or programs for
                              children identified as gifted, with Boston,
                              Cleveland, and
                              Los
                              Angeles being among the most notable. Most of these programs featured
                              the acceleration of such students through the school's regular
                              curriculum (Boston's classes, for 
                                   19Haller, Eugenics,
                                        163-67.
                                   20Selden, Inheriting
                                             Shame, 100-105; Linda M. Kasper, "Feminist
                                        and Eugenicist Thinking in a Woman Educator: The Case of
                                        Leta Stetter Hollingworth," Ph.D. diss., Indiana
                                        University Bloomington, 2003, 122-32. Quotation is from
                                        Hollingworth, quoted in Kasper, 123.
                              
                               example, were originally called
                              "rapid advancement"). Other enrichment programs kept the
                              child with her age-mates but allowed her to put her talents to better
                              use. However, such endeavors were limited at best. In 1930, there were
                              forty cities in twenty-three states offering about 150 programs, with
                              just 4,000 students enrolled—a miniscule number compared to the
                              hundreds of thousands then enrolled in special classes for mentally or
                              physically disabled children, and compared to the estimated 1,500,000
                              who were deemed qualified for gifted programs.21 
                         Indiana educators had little to show
                              in the area of gifted education before the late 1920s. The state had
                              invested far more educational resources in students with various
                              disabilities than in those identified as having superior qualities.
                                        Indianapolis,
                              for example, did not institute classes for the gifted until the early
                              1950s. Even with the advent of group intelligence testing in the
                              1920s, those scores were used almost exclusively to identify children
                              with mental disability. In 1923, State Senator C. O. Holmes, a member
                              of the ICMD, echoed Hollingworth when he lamented the lack of concern
                              paid to "that small percentage of unusually qualified mentally,
                              from which comes the greater portion of our leadership." Holmes
                              argued that "we are not now affording that special care and
                              attention" to gifted children. A 1927 article in the Indiana Teacher noted that the typical Indiana public school was "not
                              suited" to cope with the great majority of both gifted and
                              defective students-a theme repeated by the state superintendent of
                              public instruction's report of 1929.22 
                         One notable exception occurred in Columbus during the mid-1920s. DuShane,
                              as a high-profile figure in the world of special education and social
                              services, also served as the superintendent for the
                                        Columbus schools. In
                              1926, the district established an "adjustment school" for
                              children who possessed high IQ scores but were not performing to that
                              level in class. Four years later, DuShane argued that "the 
                                   21Robert L. Osgood, For
                                             "Children Who Vary from the Normal Type":
                                             Special Education in Boston, 1838-1930 (
                                             Washington,
                                                  D.C.
                                        , 2000), 148-51; Osgood, The
                                             History of Inclusion in the United States (
                                             Washington,
                                                  D.C.
                                        , 2005), 167-70; Special Education,
                                             the Handicapped, and the Gifted. Report of the
                                             Committee on Special Classes, Charles Scott Berry, PhD,
                                             chairman. White House Conference on Child Health and
                                             Protection (New
                                                  York, 1931), 14,
                                        542.
                                   22C. O. Holmes, "The State's
                                        Problem in Mental Hygiene," Indiana
                                             Bulletin, 133 (June 1923), 120; "Mental
                                        Defectives and the Schools," 15; Annual
                                             Report of the Department of Public Instruction of the
                                             State of Indiana, For the Fiscal Year Ending September
                                             30, 1929 ([Indianapolis], [1930]),
                                        8.
                              
                               schools as at present organized
                              are not well adapted to care for exceptionally bright children, nor
                              is it fully realized how much social significance there is in the
                              proper care of bright children." Echoing Hollingworth's
                              sentiments, he also contended that too much effort had been put into
                              programs for the mentally deficient and that "from the social
                              standpoint a readjustment of the schools which will benefit the gifted
                              child is highly desirable and much more valuable than work at the
                              other extreme."23 
                         The Columbus adjustment school
                              specifically targeted students who had been identified as
                              "retardates"-students doing academic work at well below
                              their assumed capabilities based on IQ scores. Approximately
                              twenty-five students were selected "very carefully" based on
                              measured IQ (greater than 120), teacher recommendations, social
                              behavior in school, and home environment. To some extent the
                              curriculum reflected Hollingworth's beliefs that a class for
                              gifted children needed to incorporate freedom, richness in resources,
                              attention to individual needs and interests, and opportunities for
                              collaborative work and leadership experience among the students.
                              Weekly entries were made in a child's file regarding her or his
                              accomplishments, attitude, ability to work well with other students,
                              and even her or his peculiarities. DuShane claimed that students who
                              previously had been "disciplinary problems" or "not
                              taxed to their ability" or "full of energy unconfined"
                              found a successful home in the school. He claimed they developed a
                              strong sense of community, found an environment rich in resources
                              "for their interests and enthusiasms," and benefited greatly
                              from individualized instruction that circumvented the
                              "lock-step" of the traditional school curriculum. He also
                              asserted that students from this first group were now in high school,
                              some "at a very early age," and almost all were doing
                                   well.24
                         Noticeably lacking in DuShane's description of, and rationale for,
                              this adjustment school was the strong eugenics-oriented rhetoric on
                              educating the gifted child seen in the writings of Hollingworth and
                              others. DuShane was no stranger to such rhetoric, having used it to
                              describe the function of modern schools in general. Yet with regard to
                              gifted 
                                   23Donald DuShane, "Exceptional
                                        Children in the Public Schools," Indiana
                                             Bulletin, 180 (March 1930), 67-68.
                                   24Ibid., 68-70.
                              
                               children, his main concern was
                              helping them to achieve their potential as students. "The upper
                              ten per cent of our children in mental ability contain those
                              individuals who are to be the authors, thinkers, philosophers, the
                              constructive leaders of the future....If the schools as at the present
                              organized do not stimulate this group to its greatest activity...then
                              the schools have failed greatly." By 1930, it was estimated that
                              6 percent of all school students nationwide could be classified as
                              gifted, or 1,500,000 out of more than 25 million schoolchildren. With
                              only a few thousand American students enrolled in programs for gifted
                              children, it was apparent that Indiana, and the rest of the United States, had
                              not yet come close to meeting their needs, and thus had much work to
                              do in properly training the nation's assumed future
                                   leadership.25 
                         The lack of initiative prior to the 1930s regarding the creation of
                              programs for children identified as gifted was indeed a national
                              story. Although there existed a significant awareness of the
                              possibilities for such programs, most differentiated instruction
                              focused on inferior children because, as Holmes indicated, that group
                              was seen as "the immediate problem .. . with all of the
                              difficulties, menace, and increasing deterioration of the stream of
                              life from the infusing of an ever-enlarging proportion of these mental
                              defectives." The alarmist overtones of negative eugenics
                              dominated social and political discourse—in Indiana and elsewhere—during the
                              Progressive Era, with its emphasis on social pathology and reformist
                              corrective action in response to unsettling, widespread conditions.
                              Hollingworth's appeal to positive eugenics as a rationale for
                              more intensive development of school programs for superior children
                              found an audience among her academic peers such as Terman. However,
                              she did not attract sufficient attention from pragmatic,
                              problem-oriented school officials who faced enormous pressures from
                              both politicians and the public to operate schools efficiently and
                              inexpensively, while also addressing the ubiquitous menace of inferior
                              and uncooperative schoolchildren. Furthermore, objectively identifying
                              unusually intelligent children depended significantly on the use of
                              standardized group intelligence tests, whereas those who were
                              considered defective were more readily obvious-for physical and
                              behavioral reasons as much as for their intellectual performance. The
                              clear and present 
                                   25Ibid., 67; Special
                                             Education, the Handicapped, and the Gifted,
                                        537.
                              
                               threat of such children had
                              demanded attention and resources decades before the use of group tests
                              gained wide currency and was in line with the negative and fearful
                              implementation of eugenic practice so common during the early
                                   1900s.26 
                         The belief that public schools constitute one of the most important and
                              potentially effective vehicles for ensuring societal health and social
                              progress in the United States has
                              a long and remarkable history. As such, public education became deeply
                              involved in a wide range of Progressive reform movements. During the
                              first three decades of the twentieth century, a series of reform
                              efforts overlapped, complemented, and at times contradicted each other
                             —all with the idea that change was necessary if America was to assume its destiny as a
                              vigorous nation and world leader. Eugenics was certainly a major
                              factor in such efforts. The notion that a science-based, objective
                              approach to reducing pathological conditions in society—while
                              simultaneously reinforcing the entrenchment of all that was best about
                              society—could make reform more effective, and permanent, appeared
                              highly promising to many reformers looking for answers.
                         Determining the extent to which eugenic thought influenced the
                              principles and practices of public school professionals across the
                              country—particularly in Indiana
                             —is, however, a challenging task. As this article has shown, many of
                              those principles found their way into the language of educational
                              leaders and into the structures of educational and social programs
                              designed for school-aged children. In Indiana, the strong interconnections among state
                              medical, social, and educational leaders, as personified by the Board
                              of State Charities and exemplified by the work of the Indiana
                              Committee on Mental Defectives, assured that schools would have direct
                              access to the ideas of prominent leaders in the field of eugenics. The
                              state's strong relationship with the national Eugenics Records
                              Office and its representatives spilled over into education: ERO
                              fieldworkers paid close attention to schools, and to the educational
                              status of children in their reports; the reports then found their way
                              promptly onto the desks of the state's political leadership.
                                        Indiana's 
                                   26Holmes, "The State's
                                        Problem," 120; Leonard P. Ayres, Laggards
                                             in Our Schools: A Study of Retardation and Elimination
                                             in City School Systems (New
                                                  York, 1913). Ayres's
                                        widely read book underscored the high priority nationwide of
                                        "slow" or "retarded" students disrupting
                                        the smooth functioning of schools.
                              
                               mental and psychological clinics,
                              again following national patterns, represented the state's desire
                              to do as much as possible to ensure the improvement of society through
                              the promotion of the strength, vigor, and vitality of its youth and
                              families. Through the clinics' efforts, many schools were able to
                              stratify both curriculum and students to ensure the proper preparation
                              of the latter according to their presumed inherent interests, skills,
                              and station. Ascertaining whether Indiana
                              matched or surpassed similar work in other states—especially
                              neighbors with relatively advanced public school systems such as
                                        Ohio and Michigan—is also quite a challenge.
                              Furthermore, while Indiana offers an
                              interesting case study, determining the extent to which its actions in
                              this arena served as models for other states requires more extensive
                              research on specific developments elsewhere. 
                         Indeed, any real influence of eugenics on public school operation
                              remains masked. The intellectual and social ferment of the early 1900s
                              covered a broad landscape of political, social, philosophical,
                              medical, and even theological worldviews that often overlapped and
                              borrowed extensively from each other. As the umbrella under which most
                              of these efforts took place, Progressivism was itself a complex set of
                              overlapping and at times contradictory views and assumptions. This was
                              nowhere more apparent than in the world of education, where examples
                              of eugenic language and practice intermingled with those of
                              experiential education, behavioral and developmental psychology,
                              business and factory models of schooling, social Darwinism, and
                              curricular tracks and programs that ranged from the classical to the
                              vocational. Each of these theories of, or approaches to, the education
                              of children in schools boasted their own principles, narratives,
                              perspectives, advocates, and terminology—but the primary goals were
                              self-advancement and public acceptance. Many of these theories found
                              common ground with eugenics, some more so than others. But to draw a
                              single, direct line of impact from broad educational policies based on
                              a science of human reproductive engineering to actual practices in
                              school buildings and classrooms is impossible. The field of eugenics
                              exhibits a remarkable complexity: it is a complicated, contradictory
                              body of influences, beliefs, and practices, crafted by people with
                              multiple agendas and perspectives. 
                         Public schools are fundamentally practical places: although theory and
                              philosophy are by no means ignored, the value of any school
                              initiative, regulation, program, or practice is most rigorously
                              measured in its day-to-day success. While certainly aware of public
                              interest in eugenics, school leaders in Indiana ultimately argued in favor of,
                              or against,  certain policies and
                              practices based on whether they would work in the schools. Features
                              such as curriculum and student tracking, special education for
                              students with disabilities, vocational education, health education
                              (including mental hygiene), large-scale mental testing, and education
                              for superior children could claim some of their inspiration and
                              support from eugenic thought and practice. Nevertheless,
                              justifications for the presence of these programs and initiatives in
                              public education depended at least as much on their contributions to
                              efficient school operation and the practical success of students and
                              teachers in classrooms as on their origins in eugenics or other social
                              policy. Consequently, the great majority of discussions proposing,
                              explaining, and defending these typical school features emphasized
                              their practical impact. 
                         Race betterment and social improvement may well have been on the minds
                              of many when considering school policy and practice; the
                                        Indiana experience offers
                              ample support for that assumption. Most documents (official records,
                              professional literature, news media) reveal school officials'
                              primary day-to-day concerns focused on smooth management, student
                              control, efficient use of scarce resources, and particularly, public
                              approval. It is intriguing to consider that such an emphasis on
                              efficient scientific approaches to school administration and pedagogy
                              might well reflect eugenic input. Eugenic theory certainly can be seen
                              in many aspects of Indiana education: its
                              focus on social efficiency, its acceptance of various social groups,
                              and its dispassionate approach to judging and training children.
                              Ultimately, however, it becomes apparent that eugenics was by no means
                              the sole factor in determining public school development during this
                              era; other features of progressivist thought also played key roles.
                              Thus in Indiana, with its strong
                              and interconnected support of the ideals of eugenics as well as of
                              other principles of the Progressive Era among the civic and
                              professional leadership, eugenics and public school education during
                              the early 1900s formed a strong, but not exclusive, relationship. 

               

               
                    REVIEWS
                    Inventing America's "Worst" Family
                              Eugenics, Islam, and the Fall and Rise of the Tribe of
                              Ishmael
                         By Nathaniel Deutsch (Berkeley: University of California Press,
                         2009. Pp. ix, 253. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                         $60.00; paperbound, $24.95.) 
                    Comin' Home to Indiana By the ishmaeLites
                                   (Cambridge,
                                   Mass.: the ishmaeLites,
                         2009. Compact disc, 77:27 minutes. $9.99.) 
                    The Tribe of Ishmael is a biblically derived moniker for hundreds of
                         impoverished late nineteenth-century migrants and immigrants in
                                   Indianapolis whose
                         requests for public welfare caught the attention of Rev. Oscar C. McCulloch
                         of the Plymouth Congregational Church. McCulloch, who named the tribe and
                         made its members the focus of his campaign to reform charity and eradicate
                         pauperism, asked untrained observers to conduct "family studies."
                         Their notes (available in the Indiana State Archives) pin crime,
                         feeblemindedness, and intentional poverty on a loosely connected, racially
                         mixed group of people whose behavior and relationships flouted conventional
                         mores. 
                    In the 1970s, Hugo P. Leaming, a Unitarian minister and historian in
                                   Illinois, read McCulloch's work.
                         Inspired by the notes' numerous mentions of intermarriage and
                         procreation among blacks, whites, and American Indians, Leaming traced the
                         Ishmaels' origins as well as their purported "gypsying"
                         paths between Indiana and Illinois towns with names like
                                   Mecca, Mahomet, and Morocco. Because he self-identified as
                         tri-racial and was interested in black nationalism, Leaming searched for
                         connections between the Ishmaels and African Islam. In "The Ben
                         Ishmael Tribe: A Fugitive 'Nation' of the Old Northwest," a
                         chapter in The Ethnic Frontier: Essays in the History of Group
                              Survival in Chicago and the Midwest (1977), he declared the
                         Ishmaels to be Muslims of African descent and founders of the Moorish
                         Science Temple and the Nation of Islam.
                    
                    Learning's history-changing assertions are still in circulation,
                         especially online. However, according to Nathaniel Deutsch, they simply
                         aren't true. Deutsch, a professor of literature and history at the
                         University of California, Santa
                              Cruz, is the author of books on Judaism,
                         Gnosticism, and early Christianity. His research on marginalized
                         communities and African American religions led him to Leaming's essay;
                         this book deftly dismisses Leaming's conclusions as wishful thinking
                         consistent with other American Orientalist ideals. "He literalized
                         elements of [the Ishmaels'] identity that had previously functioned on
                         a symbolic level," Deutsch says. "Leaming flipped the actual
                         ethnic and racial proportions of the tribe's members so that . . . he
                         had transformed a collection of poor, overwhelmingly white, Upland
                         Southerner migrants into an African American Islamic community" (p.
                         14). Although the McCulloch notes document mixed-race members as well as
                         some who ignored Indiana's Sunday laws,
                         Deutsch asserts that the Ishmaels were actually "white
                         Christians." Whether that is a leap of faith as long as Leaming's
                         may someday be known, but Deutsch acknowledges that McCulloch's study
                         of the Ishmaels helped to fuel anti-immigrant sentiment in the 1880s and
                         beyond. 
                    Deutsch also discusses Arthur H. Estabrook, a caseworker for the Eugenics
                         Record Office (ERO), from 1910 to 1929, and a biologist with particular
                         interest in mixed-race genetics, who edited McCulloch's Tribe of
                         Ishmael materials after World War I. Although the resulting manuscript
                         was never published, Estabrook and others used it in support of anti-
                         miscegenation and compulsory sterilization laws intended to prevent
                         mixed-race marriage and reproduction by individuals deemed degenerate
                         or mentally unfit. Estabrook's manuscript was archived in the ERO with
                         other studies of mixed-race groups. 
                    Deutsch critiques "Estabrook's retrospective diagnosis of the 
                         Ishmaelites as feebleminded" (p. 115) because it was based not on
                         firsthand observation but on McCulloch's unscientific study. The
                         author points out many problems in Estabrook's work, including: weak
                         or undisclosed sources; genealogical and statistical missing links;
                         evidence that "gypsying" was not always an indicator of
                         pauperism and that many Ishmaels traveled in search of work, despite
                         accusations of laziness; and no proof that the tendency to travel is
                         genetically determined. In fact, he notes, "Estabrook was unable to
                         provide any evidence that the Tribe of Ishmael still constituted a distinct
                         community—if it ever had" (p. 126). 
                    And yet Indianapolis did
                         include those citizens called the Tribe of Ishmael, whose descendants
                         continue to search for new clues to their real identity. One unusual
                         example is the pseudonymous "Ishi Ishmael," a Massachusetts performance artist and
                         musician who began researching the 
                         tribe when his family mentioned "Indiana
                         gypsy" ancestry. (They are appalled, he says, that he would want to
                         identify with "the worst family in America"; thus the pseudonym.)
                         His album, Comin' Home to Indiana, is the creative
                         result of many years of reading and connecting the dots among chapters of
                         Hoosier history that reflect disenfranchisement of the "Other."
                         Billed as roots rock, the CD's twenty-two tracks move through many
                         folk and world music forms, including American Indian rhythms and Celtic
                         ballads; Caribbean ska, reggae, mento, and calypso; and American jazz,
                         blues, traditional rock 'n' roll, and contemporary country. The
                         stream-of-consciousness lyrics, spoken and sung by Ishi and a band of
                         unidentified friends, weave the Tribe of Ishmael and racism, poverty, and
                         industrialization in early Indianapolis together with Tecumseh, Abe
                         Lincoln, Little Orphant [sic] Annie, Eugene Debs, Booth Tarkington, and a
                         lot more. 
                    Ishi views the Tribe of Ishmael through a wide artistic lens; Deutsch narrows
                         the focus through scholarly vision. Both perspectives inspire continued
                         research. 
                    ELSA E KRAMER is a researcher and an editor in Indianapolis. Her article
                         on the Tribe of Ishmael appeared in the March 2008 issue of the Indiana Magazine of History. 
               
                    Steel Giants Historic Images from the Calumet Regional
                              Archives
                         By Stephen G. McShane and Gary S. Wilk. Forward by Mark Reutter
                                   (Bloomington: Indiana
                         University Press, 2009. Pp. xiv, 283. Illustrations. $39.95.) 
                    The story of Northwest Indiana's transformation
                         is fascinating. From the end of the nineteenth century through the
                         beginning of the twentieth century, the region that Powell Moore had
                         described as Indiana's last frontier
                         became one of the great centers of industrial production. This quick
                         transformation has long given the Calumet region great symbolic value. In
                         his 1979 book, The Responsibility of Mind in a Civilization of
                              Machines, historian Perry Miller framed the paradoxes of modern
                         development. He argued that when previous generations realized that they
                         were incapable of dealing with their world they could blame the gods; but,
                         Miller continued, "whom dare we blame for Gary, Indiana" (p. 202). At the turn of the twentieth
                         century, however, the steel cities of Northwest Indiana symbolized the nation's great
                         potential for industrial growth. Not only did Inland Steel and U.S. Steel
                         build massive industrial complexes to produce steel, they also documented
                         every step of this process with vivid photography. Here was the tabula rasa
                         upon which was to be  written the
                         history of American industry; both companies kept a record to ensure that
                         future generations knew who was responsible for Gary and the other cities
                         of the Calumet region. 
                    In Steel Giants, Stephen McShane and Gary Wilk "bring the reader back to
                         a time of incredible industrial might which defined a region and its
                         people" through these powerful photographs (p. 14). It is a goal
                         which they achieve admirably. The book begins with a brief introduction
                         establishing the history of the region. The authors then use text from an
                         Inland Steel promotional booklet, published in 1911, to set the tone for
                         the collection. The rest of the book consists of photographs that cover
                         the construction of mills, streets, and houses, the process of steel,
                         and the lives of the people who produced the steel. 
                    Taken from the company archives, the photos are both illuminating and
                         deceptive. There was a mythology to steel production carefully crafted both
                         in the buildings of the steel companies and their literature and
                         photography. The photos offer a vantage point designed to inspire awe in
                         the technological and mechanical wonder of modern steel production, while
                         images of workers create a sense of harmony and unity. Campaigns for war
                         bonds, visits from Hollywood stars, and company-sponsored athletics craft
                         an image of a happy, hardworking place. Especially telling in this regard
                         are the images from the early 1940s which show women stepping into the
                         roles and jobs of steel production to do their part. Strikes, conflicts,
                         and workplace dangers have no place within these documentary images. Yet
                         McShane and Wilk are very aware of these issues. "Keep in mind,"
                         they warn, "that the selection of photographs was limited by the
                         contents of the two visual collections created by Inland Steel and U.S.
                         Steel" (p.14). The use of such collections also limits the chronology
                         of the book. While a few photographs taken after 1970 are included in the
                         collection, the bulk of its contents trace the high years of the steel
                         cities from the turn of the century through the 1960s. Missing are images
                         of deindustrialization, mechanization, and job loss. None of this, however,
                         takes away from the visual impact of the collection. It is a wonderful
                         array of images from a time when enormous structures that poured out steel,
                         and the people who worked within these structures, dominated the
                         landscape. 
                    PAUL O'HARA is an assistant professor of history at Xavier
                         University, Cincinnati. He is the
                         author of Gary, the Most American of All American Cities,
                         forthcoming from Indiana University Press. 

               

               
                    Red Skelton The Mask Behind the Mask
                         By Wes D. Gehring (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society
                         Press, 2008. Pp. xxxiv, 362. Illustrations, notes, bibliography.
                         $19.95.) 
                    American comic icon Richard "Red" Skelton is the fascinating
                         subject of Wes D. Gehring's new biography, Red Skelton:
                              The Mask Behind the Mask. As the title suggests, Gehring's
                         well-researched and thoughtful book seeks to explore both the inner life
                         and the public persona of the multifaceted entertainer—"one of the clowns of the twentieth century"—who retained
                         a lifelong connection to, and drew inspiration from, his Indiana roots (p. xv).
                    After recounting Skelton's most successful comic roles and characters,
                         the biography begins with Skelton's early years in
                         Vincennes,
                                   Indiana. The author examines Skelton's
                         "official" origins, and reveals several family secrets that point
                         to a darker, but more likely, scenario surrounding the comedian's
                         birth and formative years. Gehring allots emotional truths and observations
                         about the comedian greater import than biological details—or Skelton's
                         often contradictory recollections. Throughout the book, facts gleaned from
                         interviews with Skelton and his daughter are compared against public
                         records and press materials of the period. Sometimes they match up and
                         sometimes they do not, but Gehring approaches these questions with
                         scrupulous honesty. The author notes that assembling a fact-based
                         through-line was made more difficult, and more colorful, by having to
                         unravel the truth from the accounts that Skelton himself, a master
                         storyteller, was fond of embellishing. 
                    Skelton worked his way up the ladder from "clowning around" and
                         walkathons to higher-profile entertaining gigs. Figures from
                         Skelton's small-town upbringing not only serve as mentors for the
                         maturing comedian, but are also suggested as possible "ordinary
                         people" types who inspired some of his best-known characters like the
                         unschooled, good-hearted Clem Kadiddlehopper and comedy bits such as the
                         doughnut dunking sketch. 
                    Gehring describes the most important and enduring influence on Skelton's
                         professional life as his first wife, Edna Stillwell. Stillwell was not only
                         Skelton's occasional comedy partner on radio and in vaudeville
                         routines, but also his writer and manager. Their successful business
                         relationship lasted longer than their marriage (they divorced in 1943),
                         and this ongoing creative partnership, the author acknowledges, must have
                         been an unwelcome source of tension in Skelton's later marriages.
                         Despite the divorce, there is no question that Red Skelton understood and
                         appreciated just how crucial Stillwell was to his success. 
                     
                    Skelton achieved early star status in 1937 thanks to hit shows in
                         New York
                         City theaters; reviews from major papers are quoted to lend a sense of his
                         growing appeal. The war years found Skelton on the silver screen with
                         comedy luminaries such as Bob Hope. After joining the military, Skelton
                         labored under such a grueling performance schedule that he suffered a
                         nervous breakdown. When the war ended, he returned to making movies,
                         although many critics at the time (as well as the author) felt that
                         Skelton's talent and potential were inadequately served by the studio.
                         The comedian, according to his co-stars, always felt more comfortable
                         on radio and, later, on television. 
                    The final chapters of the book are devoted to Skelton's life after he
                         and Stillwell parted ways for good in 1952. Despite success on the small
                         screen, the comedian suffered darker periods, including various health
                         problems, alcoholic tendencies, depression, and the heartbreaking loss of
                         his son (with Georgia Davis) to leukemia at the age of nine. 
                    Gehring's work also evokes the era in which Skelton grew up and the
                         sensibilities of the public he was so eager to charm. The author's
                         assessment of Skelton as a comic genius and a man is evenhanded and
                         well-documented; he does not allow his admiration for Skelton's
                         talent to blind him to his subject's weaknesses, or to the more
                         private traits that constitute the "mask behind the mask." The
                         author's greatest success, however, is in transforming a
                         considerable amount of research into an engaging and eminently readable
                         portrait of a pop culture icon whose continued impact is undeniable.
                         Though younger readers may not remember Skelton as the comic force he once
                         was, they cannot deny his influence on a generation of later comedians such
                         as Steve Martin, Flip Wilson, and Richard Pryor. For those who do remember
                         the endearing "kidult," as Stillwell called him, Red Skelton:
                         The Mask Behind the Mask offers an illuminating glimpse into the performer,
                         his best-loved comic characters, his personal history, and the more
                         complex man behind the clown mask. 
                    ANDRA ST. IVANYI is a freelance writer and screenplay analyst. She lives
                         in Los Angeles. 

               

               
                    The Native Americans
                         By Elizabeth Glenn and Stewart Rafert (Indianapolis: Indiana
                         Historical Society Press, 2009. Pp. 130. Illustrations, notes, index.
                         Paperbound, $13.95.)
                    This is the second volume in the Indiana Historical Society's Peopling
                         Indiana series, a collection that explores Indiana
                         history through the experiences of the state's ethnic groups.
                         Elizabeth Glenn, an anthropologist, and Stewart Rafert, a historian, team
                         up to explore the stories of people whose ties to the region stretch back
                         millennia. This is a difficult task—and, from a Native perspective, a
                         rather unnatural one-considering that Indians' history and sense of
                         place were set in motion long before Euro-Americans ever dreamed of
                         creating bounded spaces called "the Northwest Territory" or
                                   "Indiana." Glenn and
                         Rafert cast this story as one of persistence and argue that "The very
                         large number of tribes represented in Indiana
                         suggests that the state is not only the crossroads of America, but the
                         crossroads of Indian America as well" (p. 110). The authors focus
                         largely on two groups, the Miami (and closely related Wea and Piankashaw)
                         and the Potawatomi, but they also include the Shawnee, Kickapoo/Mascouten,
                         Delaware, and Wyandot.
                    The first three chapters move quickly from the pre-Columbian era through
                         1812. Most disappointing is the authors' coverage of the period before
                         European colonization, a span of ten thousand years that merits less than
                         two pages. This seems particularly glaring in light of the high value that
                                   Indiana places on its archaeological sites,
                         for which the state has some of the toughest anti-looting laws in the
                         country. The authors are on firmer ground when discussing Native cultures
                         in the colonial era, particularly when they deal with the fur trade, an
                         exchange that dominated Native-French relations from the late 1600s through
                         1760. Through-out the colonial era, few Euro-Americans lived in the region,
                         and "Indiana was still Indian territory"
                         (p. 32). This began to change after the American Revolution, when the
                                   United
                                   States sought access to the region.
                    The tone and texture of this book change markedly when Glenn and Rafert
                         discuss the nativist movement led by Tecumseh and his brother Tenskwatawa.
                         Thereafter, Indian actors and voices emerge much more vividly, thanks in
                         part to Rafert's previous research on the Miami of Indiana. Between 1818 and 1840, the federal
                         government forced most Indians to leave Indiana and
                         settle west of the Mississippi. However, many Miami and a group of Potawatomi
                         managed to avoid removal and remain in their homelands. This book's
                         greatest strength lies in its discussion of these groups' persistence
                         and their ongoing efforts to assert sovereignty in the post-removal period.
                         During the mid-nineteenth century, the Miami and Potawatomi were fairly successful in lobbying
                         the federal government to recognize their rights and pay treaty annuities.
                         Their fortunes changed later in the century due to territorial losses, and,
                         in 1897, the Miami lost federal recognition when they challenged
                         Indiana's power to tax them. The Potawatomi gained federal recognition
                         in 1994, while the Miami still seek recognition of their sovereignty rights
                         today. In recent decades, Indiana has seen an influx of Native Americans
                         from other regions of the country, and the Cherokee are now the largest
                         Native group in the state. According to the authors, the fact that
                                   Indiana was not targeted under the federal
                         government's relocation program "meant that Indians made a
                         personal choice to move to the state" (p. 102).
                    While the latter portion of the book is stronger, Glenn and Rafert offer a
                         lucid, informative overview of Indiana's Native history. The
                              Native Americans is appropriate for a general audience as well as
                         secondary school classrooms, and Indiana
                         residents will appreciate how the authors highlight relevant historical and
                         archaeological sites as well as contemporary Native festivals. 
                    CHRISTINA SNYDER is an assistant professor of History and American
                         Studies at Indiana University, Bloomington. She is the author of Slavery in Indian Country: The Changing Face of Captivity in
                              Early America (2010). 

                
                    For the Freedom of Her Race Black Women and Electoral
                              Politics in Illinois, 1877-1932
                         By Lisa G. Materson (Chapel
                              Hill: University of North Carolina Press,
                         2009. Pp. xv, 344. Illustrations, map, notes, bibliography, index.
                         $42.00.) 
                    For the Freedom of Her Race tells the story of the shifting
                         partisan landscape in Illinois, from just before
                         the turn of the century to the New Deal, from the perspective of an
                         important but understudied group: African American women. The book focuses
                         primarily on black middle-class migrants from the South who came to
                                   Chicago. Lisa G. Materson
                         argues that these women brought with them distinctive political memories:
                         they and their families had lived through the disfranchisement of black
                         men, and the imposition of Jim Crow laws and the accompanying racial
                         violence. Such experiences, Materson shows, significantly shaped their
                         political arguments and loyalties. These women consistently supported a
                         stronger federal government as an enforcer of constitutional rights, a
                         stance which later put them on the side of Prohibition—even when increasing
                         numbers of African Americans opposed it in the late 1920s and  early 1930s-fearing that the repeal of
                         Prohibition might embolden those who favored repeal of the Fifteenth
                         Amendment. 
                    Like white middle-class women during this period, black middle-class women in
                                   Illinois argued about the benefits of party
                         loyalty versus political independence. Memories of the racist actions of
                         white southern Democrats inclined these women toward a strong Republican
                         loyalty, which was tested by the complicated and shifting factions of
                                   Chicago politics and by
                         frequent Republican indifference to their concerns. 
                    Materson made a good decision to organize the book around several critical
                         junctures when women's voting rights expanded. At the first of these,
                         in 1894, Illinois women could vote for the first
                         time, though only in university trustee elections. Black women organized in
                         support of candidates who favored black access to the University of
                         Illinois; but more interestingly, they used this small local contest for
                         trustee positions to express loyalty to the Republican Party and its
                         historic commitment to racial equality and the unfinished business of
                         Reconstruction. In 1913, the state granted women the vote in presidential
                         and municipal elections, and, of course, in 1920, full suffrage was finally
                         attained. At that point, black women organized via the Colored Women's
                         Department of the Republican National Committee and through the National
                         Association of Colored Women. 
                    The question of loyalty versus independence became ever more urgent with
                         Republican unwillingness to press for a federal anti-lynching law. This
                         dilemma produced defections to the Democrats among some middle-class
                         black women, who also criticized Republicans for their unwillingness to
                         support black women for civil service jobs. This growing tension, the
                         precursor to black realignment toward the Democrats in the mid-1930s, is
                         a particularly interesting thread throughout the book. The gradual shift
                         away from the Republican Party, which accelerated after Roosevelt's
                         election in 1932, was in part, it seems to me, an effect of generational
                         change, though Materson does not explicitly acknowledge this. 
                    The shift toward the Democrats also had a class dimension, as poor and
                         working-class African Americans were most affected by the Depression. In a
                         fascinating story, the author describes how black middle-class Republican
                         women continued to organize via mainstream black churches, despite the fact
                         that poor blacks and more recent Southern migrants could increasingly be
                         found in small storefront churches. 
                    The book offers a thorough description of the role of civic and religious
                         organizations, and establishes the importance of women's networks in
                                   Chicago. Black
                         women's clubs clearly played a significant role in socializing
                         migrants into northern political practices and Republican  networks. I would have liked to see some
                         information about African American men's organizations and how they
                         connected to both the women's organizations and to
                                   Chicago politics during
                         this period. But this is a small quibble. For the Freedom of
                              Her Race is well-organized, nicely written, and makes an
                         important contribution to our knowledge of African American women's
                         history and politics, and to our understanding of the sometimes messy and
                         complicated processes by which political realignments occur. 
                    KRISTI ANDERSEN is a professor of political science at the Maxwell
                         School of Syracuse University. She is the author of After Suffrage: Women
                         in Partisan and Electoral Politics before the New Deal (1996).

                
                    Feminist Frontiers Women Who Shaped the Midwest
                         Edited by Yvonne J. Johnson (Kirksville, Mo.: Truman
                         State University Press, Pp. xxv, 206. Maps, illustrations, notes, index.
                         $29.95.) 
                    This volume contains eleven biographical essays on midwestern women from
                         the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. According to editor Yvonne J.
                         Johnson, the collection grew out of her interest in gathering stories of
                         midwestern women's activism. Johnson argues that the Midwest is
                         unique in American women's history because of its transformation over
                         the nineteenth century from farmland to an agricultural and industrial
                         powerhouse. According to Johnson, the region also has a reputation as a
                         crucible for reform, as the mobility of its male and female inhabitants
                         "may have contributed to a more socially and politically progressive
                         spirit" (p. xi). The essays are loosely held together by their focus
                         on women across the Midwest involved in some type of reform; and while many
                         of the 2010. women profiled had some feminist tendencies, what links them
                         is a notion of a "universally recognized belief in human
                         equality" (p. x). Each essay is a biographical sketch of one woman,
                         and her reform efforts, attempts at reform, or thoughts about reform,
                         throughout her life. While each essay has its merits, not all of the lives
                         of the women included support the editor's thesis, weakening the 
                         collection overall. 
                    Johnson defines the Midwest as a twelve-state region from North
                                   Dakota to Kansas to
                                   Ohio, and the studies include women who
                         were active in both its rural and urban areas. Subjects range from Frances
                         Dana Gage, who famously allowed former slave Sojourner Truth to speak at an
                         1851 woman suffrage convention in Akron,
                                   Ohio, and who coined  (with Truth's approval) the refrain
                         "Ar'n't I a Woman?" in her rewriting of Truth's
                         speech, to Genora Dollinger, who blended feminist and union activism during
                         her participation in the 1937 Flint sit-down strikes against General Motors
                         and afterward. 
                    Some of the women profiled, unlike Gage and Dollinger, do not demonstrate a
                         belief in human equality, much less feminism or social reform. For
                         example, Mary Ellen Rowe argues that Missourian Mary Sibley owned six
                         slaves and could not have run her farm and school without them; according
                         to Rowe, Sibley "did her duty as she saw it" (p. 29). South
                         Dakotan Marietta M. Bones turned from supporting woman suffrage to
                         actively campaigning against it, delaying the passage of suffrage in the
                         state for twenty-eight years after it was first on a statewide ballot in
                         1890 (p. 81). Taken as a whole, this essay collection leaves the impression
                         that midwestern women, with the exceptions of Gage, Dollinger, and Harriet
                         Friedman Woods, tended toward moderate, local, and conservative reform
                         efforts and overall acquiescence with the gender roles of their times. This
                         impression undermines the editor's original intent to show the
                         "more socially and politically progressive spirit" evident in
                         midwestern women's experiences. 
                    This volume introduces many lesser-known women into the historical
                         landscape of the Midwest, and Johnson's call for more research on how
                         women shaped the social, political, and educational culture of the region
                         is well merited. However, this collection would have benefitted from a
                         tighter and more rigorous focus on how ideas and ideals of feminism have
                         changed across the nineteenth and twentieth centuries when viewed through
                         the lives and actions of midwestern women. 
                    DONNA J. DRUCKER is visiting lecturer in the Department of Feminist and
                         Gender Studies at Colorado College. Her article, "'Building for a
                         life-time of research': Letters of Alfred Kinsey and Ralph
                         Voris," appeared in the March 2010 issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                         History. 

                
                    Good, Reliable, White Men Railroad Brotherhoods,
                              1877-1917 
                         By Paul Michael Taillon (Champaign: University of Illinois Press,
                         2009. Pp. xvii, 296. Illustrations, notes, index. Cloth-bound, $75.00;
                         paperbound, $25.00.) 
                    Paul Michael Taillon has written a much-needed study of railroaders, which
                         focuses primarily on the running trades. While earlier studies by Walter
                         Licht and Sheldon Stromquist examine railroaders' work life, Taillon
                               focuses on their labor relations,
                         unions, and the brotherhoods' transformations from fraternal groups
                         to more typical trade unions. He synthesizes labor, gender, and cultural
                         history to study workers' lives and institutions. While many
                         historians have ignored the railroad brotherhoods—which they considered too
                         conservative—Taillon argues that a serious examination of the actions of
                         brotherhoods allows us to focus on what they did
                         accomplish rather than what they should have
                         accomplished. He contends that the railroad brotherhoods became a potent
                         force in a key economic sector and in national politics. They commanded the
                         loyalty of thousands of workers, navigated treacherous waters that
                         destroyed other unions, and, finally, by working for passage of the Erdman
                         Act of 1898, helped to bring about state-sanctioned collective
                         bargaining. 
                    Almost two dozen unions represented railroad workers, although four draw
                         most of Taillon's attention—the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers,
                         the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen, the Brotherhood of Railroad
                         Trainmen, and the Order of Railroad Conductors. Those four, however, were
                         unusual. First, they were not affiliated with the American Federation of
                         Labor. Secondly, they often stood apart because, occupying a strategic
                         place in the economy, they contributed to national progress in a way their
                         peers could not. The railroad trade produced strains on families that
                         other workers did not have to endure. While most working-class Americans
                         faced physical exploitation, railroaders in the running trades often
                         endured irregular hours and long absences from home. The brotherhoods in
                         their early years "were as much all-male fraternal associations as
                         they were labor unions" (p. 39). While operatives struggled to define
                         themselves as men according to nineteenth-century cultural expectations,
                         their wives adapted the ideals of "true womanhood" to the
                         realities of family life. By the beginning of the twentieth century,
                         notions of Victorian manhood began to give way to the stresses of modern
                         society, further perpetuated by Theodore Roosevelt's call for a
                         "strenuous life." Roosevelt pointed to rail workers as examples
                         of manly toughness and strength, and Taillon suggests that this image of
                         railroaders may have contributed to a middle-class reconstruction of 
                         manhood at the turn of the century. 
                    The brotherhoods' cultures were also changing, however, not 
                         necessarily in ways consistent with Roosevelt's pronouncements. In the
                         nineteenth-century paradigm of manhood, railroaders and their bosses
                         could meet as men to discuss their differences—a way advocated by Eugene
                         Debs when he edited the Locomotive Firemen's Magazine. By the
                         twentieth century, male culture had changed, and it was no longer 
                         possible for worker and boss to sit across the table from one another. The
                         brotherhoods abandoned many of their fraternal trappings and   transformed themselves into more 
                         traditional unions. The Erdman Act, with its emphasis on mediation and 
                         arbitration under federal auspices, also represented this new
                         direction. 
                    Good, Reliable, White Men adds to our understanding of
                         railroad labor unions in this crucial era. Taillon successfully
                         challenges the idea that the brotherhoods were conservative; instead, he
                         shows that they continued a sustained tradition of working-class
                         activism. Scholars may disagree with some of his conclusions, but this book
                         will raise questions and prompt a re-thinking of earlier scholarship which
                         tended to ignore railroad brotherhoods. It also adds one more piece to the
                         puzzle of the origins and legacy of progressivism. 
                    JON HUIBREGTSE is Professor of History at Framingham State College.
                         His book, American Railroad Labor and the Genesis of the New Deal,
                         1919-1935 (2010), is part of the Working in the Americas series published
                         by the University Press of Florida. 

                
                    The Averaged American Surveys, Citizens, and the Making
                              of a Mass Public
                         By Sarah E. Igo (Cambridge, Mass.:
                         Harvard University Press, 2007. Pp. x, 398. Illustrations, notes, index.
                         Cloth-bound, $35.00; paperbound, $18.95.) 
                    Why do average Americans love surveys, hate surveys, praise them, condemn
                         them, or ignore them? What explains Americans' fascination with
                         numbers and with the measurement of their own and others' opinions,
                         behaviors, and circumstances? The Averaged American
                         embeds its intriguing answers to such questions in a rich historical
                         context. Author Sarah Igo, who teaches history at the University of
                         Pennsylvania, weaves her analysis of the evolution of survey research
                         around three landmark American survey enterprises. 
                    First, and arguably most importantly, are the 1929 and 1937 Middletown
                         studies by Robert and Helen Lynd that made the state of Indiana famous among social scientists
                         everywhere. Middletown, depicted as the
                         archetypical American town, was in reality, Muncie, Indiana. The
                         second milestone enterprise concerns the development of scientific polling
                         methods in the mid-1930s, spearheaded by pollsters George Gallup and Elmo
                         Roper, whose companies measured white Americans' traits, opinions, and
                         behaviors over and over again. The initial purpose was to help merchants
                         advertise their wares more efficiently. The statistical mean of their
                         survey data then became the "average" American—the "mass
                         public," to whom business people, politicians, and their fellow
                         citizens would cater. The 1948 and 1953 Kinsey  Reports about sexual behaviors of white
                         American populations were the third milestone. The surveys revealed that
                         many presumed sexual aberrations were more common than people had hitherto
                         believed. They fell within average limits. Strangely, from a scholarly
                         perspective, all of these landmark social scientific endeavors excluded
                         significant minorities from their population samples. 
                    Igo uses these milestones in the history of survey development to describe
                         how polls were organized and conducted and how the findings portrayed
                         average Americans, as glimpsed through the lens of surveys, then reflected
                         by pundits, and finally absorbed by publics. Not surprisingly,
                         photographing the public, so-to-speak, through questioning selected
                         individuals yielded images that were quite at odds with less scientific
                         previous assessments. 
                    Igo's analyses of the data are insightful, well-argued, and fascinating.
                         She explains why people accept surveys as facts, making survey findings 
                         the yardstick by which they judge themselves and their environment.
                         Average becomes equated to standard, normal, and typical. People become
                         willing, and even eager, to merge their identities into the reported
                         norms. Spiral effects ensue, so that accepted standards shape subsequent
                         surveys and the analyses that they evoke. 
                    Beyond her examination of the evolution of surveys, Igo also records some of
                         the publicized vocal reactions to polls that either pleased or offended
                         portions of the public. It is refreshing to learn that many people have
                         not shied away from talking back to pollsters in solo efforts or in large
                         choruses. Those who are not intimidated by the aura of precision 
                         conveyed by numbers have challenged the scientific merit of the survey
                         enterprise, its ethics, as well as the soundness of the findings. 
                    Ultimately, Igo leaves her readers with the distinct impression that the
                         "averaged American" is a phony concoction and that there is no
                         unified mass public. That verdict is not particularly scary. Americans
                         are used to exposes that demolish prior truths. What is scary is the
                         symbolic power of this manufactured, disembodied vision of average
                         Americans and uniform mass publics that conceals the rich diversity of
                         America. Too many people, including social scientists, continue to react to
                         these images as if they were real. Their imprint on American culture
                         remains profound even though they have been partially counterbalanced by
                         subsequent surveys of various minority populations. 
                    DORIS A. GRABER is a professor of political science at the University of
                         Illinois at Chicago. She is the author
                         of numerous books on the impact of mass media on the government. 

               

               
                    Suburban Steel The Magnificent Failure of the Lustron
                              Corporation, 1945-1951
                         By Douglas Knerr (Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2004.
                         Pp. x, 251. Illustrations, notes, index. $47.95.)
                    Suburban Steel is animated by a curious bias. The author,
                         Douglas Knerr, believes that America would have been better off if the
                         Lustron Corporation had succeeded in selling low-cost, prefabricated
                         steel homes to the American public. A reader who shares Knerr's belief
                         in the superiority of the prefabricated metal home to the mass-produced
                         wood and sheetrock version will be impressed by the Lustron visionaries
                         brought to life in the book. 
                    Knerr lays a strong groundwork by demonstrating how Lustron appeared to
                         post-World War II advocates as a potentially successful national
                         prefabrication operation—rather than as an absurd experiment. In the
                         decades following the war, affordable housing advocates sought to create a
                         national housing company, like Lustron, that could build and deliver
                         housing as efficiently as Ford assembly lines produced autos. Understanding
                         prefabrication as a reform movement, and Lustron as an apparently logical
                         outgrowth of that effort, is essential to understanding how the Truman
                         administration could sink so much money into a revolutionary product. 
                    Knerr then describes, with some economy and style, the personalities and
                         organizations behind Lustron, the business plan, the Ohio factory, the
                         distribution network, and the product itself: a mostly steel home that
                         featured enameled surfaces and modern conveniences that could be shipped
                         (disassembled) anywhere in the United States on a single tractor trailer.
                         Knerr makes a good case that the Lustron house was cleverly designed,
                         well-liked by those few who purchased them, and at the center of post-war
                         debates about providing "a decent home" and good communities for
                         working people. 
                    If the author gets a little breathless about the superiority of Lustron, he
                         also reveals in detail the missteps that bankrupted the company: 
                         government interference by both Democrats and Republicans; deficiencies in
                         the business plan (even the basic Lustron house was more expensive than
                         promised); and shortcomings in the original designs that alienated
                         potential buyers and made site construction difficult. 
                    Lustron's failure as an individual business, he argues, should not blind
                         modern readers to the superior high standards set by the company for 
                         pre-fabricated housing. Knerr notes, for instance, the growing market share
                         today of cut-rate mobile homes in the low-end housing market. He asserts
                         that Lustron's survival would have improved modern prefabricated 
                         housing because Lustron houses, even in the 1940s, were much better designed
                               than today's mobile homes in
                         terms of function, materials, and energy use. 
                    Knerr's extensive research provides valuable insights into public
                         policy, business history, architecture, and even engineering, but fails to
                         offer perspective on the impact that greater mass production would have
                         made on the American landscape. Lustron's houses were extraordinarly
                         difficult to rebuild, expand, and personalize compared to more traditional
                         homes. The houses in Levittown and other
                         community-builder suburbs, which used traditional materials and site-based
                         mass production, have since been transformed and expanded in ways that
                         would be very difficult for steel Lustron structures.
                         Levittown residents,
                         according to historian Barbara Kelly, have put their personal stamp on
                         their homes and enhanced their value, as have other suburbanites across the
                         country. 
                    In the long run, a nation of Lustron homes, in a limited variety of
                         nationally marketed styles, would have undermined the do-it-yourself spirit
                         of American postwar culture. Knerr overlooks the ways that the inflexible,
                         mass-produced steel home restricted self-expression and sweat equity. While
                         television and mass consumerism did define much of postwar middle-class
                         American culture and society, Americans simultaneously sought out ways
                         to personalize and improve their environments. Knerr works hard throughout 
                         to show that a big potential market existed for Lustron homes, but he
                         never entirely eliminates the sense that the wider public rejected
                         Lustron's "machine for living." 
                    NICHOLAS DAGEN BLOOM is the author of Public Housing That
                              Worked: New York in the Twentieth Century (2008). 

                
                    The Vietnam War in American Memory Veterans, Memorials, and the
                         Politics of Healing By Patrick Hagopian (Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press,
                         2009. Pp. [xviii], 553. Illustrations, notes, index. $49.95.) 
                    Patrick Hagopian's long-awaited book, decades in the making, arrives at
                         a time when the U.S. military intervention in Vietnam has become a hot
                         topic in memory studies. A new generation of authors, too young to have
                         experienced the war or its social upheavals, has begun to produce important
                         studies on how the era has been remembered and commemorated, both here
                         and in Vietnam.
                    At first sight, the subject of Hagopian's book is the broad terrain of
                         local and national monuments to Vietnam veterans erected in
                         the U.S.: from the Angel Fire memorial chapel in New
                                   Mexico erected by a grieving father in 1971;
                         to Maya Lin's  celebrated wall a
                         decade later in 
                              Washington, D.C.
                         ; to the dozens of state and local
                         memorials erected ever since. The book is not meant to be an exhaustive
                         catalog of all such monuments; instead, the author classifies them into
                         certain types and bores deeply into representative examples.
                         Hagopian's real subject, however, is not simply the objects
                         themselves, but the psychiatric and political discourses that at once
                         spurred these memorial efforts and constrained their expressive
                         potential. 
                    In a nutshell, Hagopian argues that the "therapeutic discourse of wounds
                         and healing" (p. 19), ostensibly a neutral platform for uniting left
                         and right in mutual sympathy for the veteran as victim, was enormously
                         powerful in generating support for memorial efforts across the U.S. But at
                         the same time, the emphasis on healing was a political rhetoric that
                         extended therapy to the nation itself, and by so doing prevented its people
                         from engaging in a genuine moral accounting of the cause and the conduct
                         of the U.S. military in Vietnam. 
                    Thus, Hagopian begins the argument with a fascinating account of the
                         psychiatric origins of the healing discourse and how it spread into the
                         commemorative sphere. Jan Scruggs, the founder of the national Vietnam
                         Veterans Memorial Fund and himself a psychologist of war trauma, emerges as
                         a key figure in this transition from treatment to commemoration.
                         Hagopian's discussion of that seminal memorial, however, delves
                         equally deeply into the complex micro-politics surrounding the monument
                         campaign in the early days of the Reagan administration. The author seems
                         to have gone through every scrap of paper in the relevant archives. His
                         reconstruction of the political calculations going on behind the scenes
                         in the White House, as Reagan's aides worried and argued about the
                         controversy's impact on their Central America policy, is a tour de
                         force. Of all of the scholarship on this one monument, Hagopian's is
                         surely the most carefully researched and substantive piece of work
                         produced to date; indeed, it is hard to imagine that any future scholar
                         could ever surpass his account of the political controversy. 
                    From here, the book expands outward to discuss the phenomenal success of the
                         national memorial and its progeny, including the Vietnam Women's
                         Memorial, the several travelling versions of the Wall, and the many state
                         and local monuments that have helped to solidify the tropes of
                         reconciliation, reunion, rescue, and succor. In the process the author
                         shows how the antiwar movement, which had been crucial in generating the
                         early psychiatric discourse, has been all but eclipsed. Hagopian suggests
                         that the memorials themselves have enabled the once-pointed moral critique
                         of the U.S. military to be superseded by a new
                         discourse of patriotic support for the troops. Some memorials have left the
                         pretense of neutrality behind, and, like Indiana's 
                         Vietnam Veterans Memorial, assert that America's objective in
                         Southeast Asia was "noble" (p. 421). 
                    Hagopian's book is a powerful reflection on the healing power and moral
                         equivocation of war memorials. If I have one objection, it is that he does
                         not situate his subject in the longer history of war memorialization in the
                                   U.S., which laid much of the groundwork
                         for the innovations of the Vietnam memorials. But that
                         is a subject for another book and, perhaps, another time.
                    KIRK SAVAGE is Professor and Chair of the History of Art and
                         Architecture Department at the University of Pittsburgh. He is the author
                         of Monument Wars: Washington, D.C., the National Mall, and the
                         Transformation of the Memorial Landscape (2009). 

               

               
                    REVIEW NOTICES
                    Fighter Pilot The World War II Career of Alex Vraciu By Ray E.
                         Boomhower (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society Press, 2010. Pp.
                         170. Illustrations, index. $17.95.)
                    On one calm Sunday, 23-year-old Alex Vraciu was listening to the radio at his
                         uncle's home when the program was disrupted by news that Pearl Harbor
                         had been attacked by the Japanese. For Vraciu—a native of
                                   East Chicago,
                                   Indiana, a graduate of both DePauw
                         University and the Civilian Pilot Training program, and a navy pilot-his
                         next steps were clear. This volume, the sixth in the Indiana Historical
                         Society Press's youth biography series, is a delightful telling of
                         Vraciu's experiences as a Hellcat fighter pilot on the USS Lexington in the Pacific during the Second World War.
                         The informative and, at times, humorous story balances the day-to-day
                         drudgery with the high action of battle. Illustrated with well-chosen
                         photographs from the National Archives and Vraciu's personal
                         collection, this book is an excellent addition to any home or library. 
                    The Common Good 
                         An Indiana Heritage Built with Taxes, Tithes, and Tuitions 
                         By John Bower (Bloomington: Studio Indiana, 2010. Pp. 144. Illustrations.
                         Paperbound, $22.00.)
                    This is the seventh in a continuing series of books by John Bower, whose
                         evocative photography brings to light the abandoned and neglected
                         architectural legacy of Indiana. This volume focuses
                         on a variety of publicly funded buildings: schools, churches, courthouses,
                         state hospitals, county jails, police and fire stations, public utilities,
                         and post offices. With an image of sunlight pouring through the broken
                         windows of First Methodist Church in Gary, Bower
                         captures the "decaying glory" of the neo-gothic sanctuary (p.
                         21). His photograph of the 1911 Beaver Hill school in Jay
                              County, roofless and retaining only its front
                         facade and parts of each side wall, seems to presage the building's
                         demise (p. 51). In a postscript, Bower notes that more than 20 percent of
                         the structures photographed in his first book are now gone. Some of his
                         subjects experience  a better fate:
                                   Indianapolis's
                         beautiful Central Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church (featured on pages
                         118-21) is slated for renovation. 
                    Murder & Mayhem in Lafayette
                         By W. C. Madden 
                         (Charleston,
                         S.C.: History
                         Press, 2010. Pp. 126. Illustrations, bibliography. Paperbound, $19.99.) 
                    For true crime enthusiasts looking for a collection of interesting tidbits,
                         W. C. Madden has produced a collection of (very) short stories about many
                         of the gruesome murders, and not so playful mayhem, which occurred in and
                         around Lafayette from the mid-1850s through
                         the 1980s. Despite the title, the volume extends beyond the city limits to
                         include reports of misdeeds from Tippecanoe and surrounding counties, although
                         the vast majority of accounts come from the Lafayette area. The stories are
                         presented chronologically—perhaps to show the reader that despite the
                         passing of years, the basic motivations for crime remain the same. Madden
                         uses a casual, conversational style of writing that emulates the newspaper
                         articles he discusses, affording less than two pages for each story.
                         Unfortunately, the author provides no historical context or analysis for
                         the volume. However, for those who enjoy short, odd, and occasionally
                         gruesome stories, which include topics like temperance, multiple murders,
                         and suicide (including one by guillotine), this book will give them that
                         and much more. 
                    Steel Shavings, Volume 40 Out to Pasture but Still
                              Kickin' A Retirement Journal, 2007-2008 
                         By James B. Lane ([Gary]: Indiana University Northwest,
                         2009. Pp. 304. Illustrations, index to names for vols. 1-40. Paperbound,
                         $20.00.) 
                    Anyone who has followed the excellent Steel Shavings series might be
                         curious about its longtime editor, James B. Lane. Over the years, Lane and
                         many of his students at Indiana University Northwest have conducted and
                         published oral histories on a wide variety of topics centered on the
                         Calumet region. Lane is now retired from a nearly four-decade teaching
                         career, and this volume, written in the first-person, follows the first
                         months of his retirement, from November 2007 through New Year's Day
                         2009. The volume offers Lane's take on historians, colleagues, and
                         students past and present; some of the many other topics considered include
                         contemporary politics, sports, and popular culture. 
                     
                    A Nation of Counterfeiters Capitalists, Con Men, and the
                              Making of the United States 
                         By Stephen Mihm (Cambridge, Mass.:
                         Harvard University Press, 2009. Pp. [x], 457. Illustrations, notes, index.
                         Clothbound, $29.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
                    In the years that followed the American Revolution, the federal government 
                         was, at best, minimally involved in the issuing of currency for the
                         new republic. Thousands of individual banks issued notes based primarily,
                         but not always, on the amount of gold and silver in their vaults. In this
                         excellent monograph, Stephen Mihm examines the counterfeit economy that
                         blossomed and flourished during this period of political and economic
                         instability. Thick with colorful and sketchy characters who took advantage
                         of the chaotic beginnings and expansion of the fledgling nation to create
                         their own wealth, this book is a valuable analysis of the cultural,
                         economic, and political conditions that ultimately led to the establishment
                         of a single, national currency produced and supported by a single
                         entity—the Federal government- after the Civil War. 
                    Do They Miss Me at Home? The Civil War Letters of William
                              McKnight, Seventh Ohio Volunteer Cavalry
                         Edited by Donald C. Maness and H. Jason Combs
                                   (Athens: Ohio University
                         Press, 2010. Pp. xv, 271. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                         $38.00.) 
                    From September 1862 until just a few days before his death in June 1864,
                         William McKnight wrote dozens of letters to his wife Samaria. The long,
                         detailed letters provide insight into camp life, battles, and
                         William's deep feelings for his family. Many readers will be
                         particularly interested in the correspondence dealing with John Hunt
                         Morgan. In July 1863, Morgan took up temporary residence at the McKnight
                         house during his raid through Indiana and
                                   Ohio, provoking anxiety and anger from
                         William when he learned the news. Eleven months later, McKnight's
                         regiment faced Morgan at the battle of Cynthiana, where McKnight was
                         mortally wounded. An epilogue and appendices detail the fate of Samaria and
                         her six children, and offer information on McKnight's regiment and
                         company. 
                     
                    An Amish Paradox 
                         Diversity and Change in the World's
                              Largest Amish Community 
                         By Charles E. Hurst and David L. McConnell 
                         (Baltimore, Md.: Johns
                         Hopkins University Press, 2010. Pp. xvi, 356. Maps, illustrations, tables,
                         appendices, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $60.00; paperbound,
                         $30.00.) 
                    Beyond the proliferation of "bonnet book" romances and coffee-table
                         books with photos of buggies, cherubic children, and quilts, there is a
                         small but increasing number of serious works on modern Amish communities.
                         Charles Hurst and David McConnell have written a fascinating sociological
                         study of the largest contiguous Amish community in the world, in
                                   Holmes County, Ohio. Based on seven years of field research,
                         the book reveals a community "rife with diversity, internal
                         disagreements, and varying adaptations to the conflicting forces" of
                         the twenty-first century (p. xi). After their first chapter, which
                         establishes the history of the community and the distinct groups of Amish
                         within its boundaries, the authors consider the themes of religious
                         diversity, family life, education, occupations, and health care. Readers
                         interested in a glimpse into the reality of Amish life in modern
                                   America should not miss this book. 
                    Dining on the B&O Recipes and Sidelights from a Bygone
                              Era
                         By Thomas J. Greco and Karl D. Spence in association with the B&O
                         Railroad Museum (Baltimore,
                                   Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2009.
                         Pp. xvi, 171. Illustrations, bibliography, index. $34.95.) 
                    Anyone nostalgic for the classic days of train travel will love this book of
                         memories, photographs, and, above all, recipes from the dining cars of the
                         Baltimore & Ohio Railroad. A foreword by the railroad's last
                         director of passenger services recreates a trip on the line's Capitol
                         Limited from Chicago to
                                   New York. The authors
                         discuss the extensive and varied menus, the employees who worked the dining
                         cars, and details such as china patterns. Frequent sidebars offer stories
                         from employees and customers, while photos reveal formally dressed patrons
                         enjoying their multi-course meals. Those interested in tasting some of the
                         recipes may find some curiosities (such as Salmon and Lemon Jell-O)
                         alongside many other dishes (including Fish Chowder B&O Style, Maryland
                         Spoon Bread, Roast Tom Turkey with Oyster Dressing, and Gingerbread Pudding
                         with Coffee Sauce). The pictured menus and, of course, the recipes that
                         dominate the book, recall an era when passengers could enjoy an appetizer,
                         fresh-baked bread, soup, salad, a main course, and dessert, as they rolled
                         along in comfort. 
                    
                    Lost States True Stories of Texlahoma, Transylvania, and
                              Other States that Never Made it 
                         By Michael J. Trinklein (Philadelphia, Pa.: Quirk Books, 2010. Pp. [160]. Maps,
                         illustrations, bibliography. $24.95.) 
                    Written by Emmy-nominated documentary writer-producer Michael J. Trinklein,
                         this collection of quirky stories of real proposals for statehood is a
                         humorous departure from the dry geographies and political histories that
                         often populate library shelves. The volume combines gorgeous images,
                         historical fact, generous interpretation, and sharp wit to describe bids
                         for statehood by American cities (Chicago,
                                   Boston, and New
                                   York) and territories (Charlotina,
                         Deseret, and Nickajack), as well as a few foreign countries
                         (Albania, Cuba, and
                         Sicily). Who could resist reading about
                         Albania, with the subhead: "They Love
                         America—like a stalker"? Beyond the odd and sometimes unbelievable
                         stories, the book also offers a fantastic foldable map, cleverly disguised
                         as the cover jacket. Printed by the aptly named Quirk Books, Lost States is an excellent gift for anyone interested in
                         history, pop culture, and weird trivia in general. 
          
          
               
               
               
               
          


     
