
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 25, Issue 1, pages 1-74. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:25+issue:1+year:1929&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana's Part in the Nomination of Abraham Lincoln for President in 1860∗
            
            By Charles Roll
            In view of the present movement to provide a memorial to Abraham Lincoln and his mother in Indiana,
                    it would seem an appropriate time to recall the part taken by this State in the nomination of
                    Lincoln for the presidency thirty years after he crossed the 
                        Wabash
                     to the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            The political importance of the Old Northwest in 1860 was without doubt a factor which carried much
                    weight in the selection of the Republican candidate for president. "It should be well
                    understood," wrote a correspondent of the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Tribune early in May, 1860, "that there is a West lying upon the
                    borders of the Great Lakes and in the Mississippi Valley."1 This section with its fifty-eight electoral votes, more than the combined
                    electoral votes of the 
                        New England
                     states, was indeed one which could not be ignored.
            The position of Indiana in the Old Northwest and in the nation was, from a political standpoint,
                    relatively of greater importance than it is today. With an-electoral vote of thirteen and,
                    consequently, with twenty-six votes in the Republican National Convention, Indiana ranked second
                    among the States of the Old Northwest, being exceeded only by 
                        Ohio
                    . She ranked fifth in this respect among the States of the Union, possessing the same
                    number of electoral votes as 
                        Massachusetts
                    . When we read the statement of one of the Indiana delegates at 
                        Chicago
                    , "they are suing us and wooing us," it is not difficult to understand
                    why. They were well worth the suing and the wooing.2
            
            
               
                  ∗ Read before the American Historical Association meeting, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , December 28, 1928.
               
                  1
                        
                     
                                Chicago
                             Tribune, May 11, 1860.
               
                  2
                        Ibid., May 16, 1860.
            
            
            In the four preceding presidential elections, the electoral vote of the State had been given to the
                    Democratic candidates. In 1856, 
                        Fremont
                     carried 
                  Ohio, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , but failed to carry Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . The Republican Party might reasonably count, in 1860, upon carrying the same three
                    States in the Old Northwest and the eight other 
                        Fremont
                     States of 1856. Forty additional electoral votes were needed to win the election. These
                    must come largely from those doubtful states, of which Indiana was one, that had returned Buchanan
                    majorities four years before. It was pointed out that the electoral votes of Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     would, if secured, give exactly the number needed. If 
                        Pennsylvania
                     should be won by the Democrats, then the votes of Indiana, 
                  Illinois, New
                        Jersey, California, Kansas
                (if admitted in time), and 
                        Oregon
                     would be required by the Republicans in order to win.8 Hence it
                    became important to nominate a candidate acceptable to the doubtful states. It was this fact which
                    rendered the position of Indiana a strategic one in 1860. Lincoln recognized this after his
                    nomination. "We might succeed in the general results without Indiana," he wrote
                    Caleb Smith, "but with it failure is scarcely possible."4
                    Others were fully aware of the same thing before the candidates were named, and therein lies the
                    reason for the readiness to listen to the wishes of the State in the matter of the nomination.
            The Daily Atlas, a newspaper edited in 
                        Indianapolis
                     by John D. Defrees, in 1859 and the early part of 1860, declared as early as November,
                    1859: "It is conceded that Indiana must be carried next year to render the election of a
                    Republican President beyond a contingency. It may possibly be accomplished without her vote, but
                    with it success may be regarded as certain."5
            
            The 
                  
                            Boston
                         Daily Atlas went even farther. "There are four free states which
                    cannot be considered sure for the Republican candidate in 1860. They are 
                  New Jersey, Pennsylvania
               , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    . Now we would be almost willing to let the delegates from those four states nominate
                    the candidate."6
            
            
               
                  3
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Atlas, August 27, 1859.
               
                  4 John J. Nioolay and John Hay, Complete Works of Abraham
                            Lincoln (
                            New York
                        , 1894) Vol. VI, p. 48.
               
                  5
                        Daily Atlas, November 9, 1859.
               
                  6 Quoted in tile Daily Atlas, September 2, 1859.
            
            
            The choice of 
                        Chicago
                     as the 
                        Convention City
                    , in December, 1859, from among eleven claimants for the honor was well received in
                    Indiana, even though 
                        Indianapolis
                     tried to obtain it.7 Prior to the assembling of this historic
                    gathering in May, 1860, there was the usual discussion of candidates. Perhaps never before had this
                    been more earnest or the interest more widespread. In Indiana, the particular form which it assumed
                    was conditioned by the character of the Republicanism which had rooted itself in the State. Here, in
                    its leadership, in its platform pronouncements, and in the smallness of the abolitionist element,
                    the party was characterized by a greater conservatism than elsewhere in the Northwest.8 The outstanding leader of the party in Indiana was Henry S. Lane, nominee for governor
                    in 1860, a Kentuckian by birth, a former Whig, and a great admirer of Henry 
                        Clay
                    , whose name he declared had been inscribed upon his banner ever since he entered
                    Indiana politics.9 In advocating the non-extension of slavery and at the same
                    time the non-interference with the institution in the States where it existed, Lane represented the
                    view of the rank and file of the party in Indiana.
            The two candidates identified with the more radical wing of the party, Chase and Seward, received
                    little support in the State. George W. Julian favored the former, with the latter as his second
                    choice, but Julian represented only a small minority of the Republican voters of Indiana.10 Furthermore, Seward's antagonism toward the Know-Nothing or American
                    Party weakened him in the State. This element, which had cast more than twenty-two thousands votes
                    for Fillmore in 1856, almost held the balance of power in Indiana. If the Republicans hoped to
                    achieve success in 1860 this group must be won over.11
            
            The candidates receiving the most favorable consideration in the State in this pre-convention
                    discussion were Edward Bates of 
                        Missouri
                    , Abraham Lincoln of 
                        Illinois
                    , and Judge McLean of 
                        Ohio
                    . Of these, Bates appeared to be the favorite. A Virginian by birth, a Whig in politics,
                    a former slave holder who had freed his slaves, an opponent of slavery agi- 
                  
                     7
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express (
                                Terre Haute
                            ) December 28, 1859.
                  
                     8 Walter Rice Sharp, "Henry S. Lane," in the 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review, Vol. VII, pp.
                            95-96; 98-99.
                  
                     9
                            Weekly Western Sun (
                                Vincennes
                            ), April 28, 1860.
                  
                     10 Grace Julian Clarke, George W. Julian (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1928), p. 204.
                  
                     11 Carl F. Brand, The History of the Know-Nothing Party
                                in Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1916), pp. 165-170. (Master's thesis, type-written, in Indiana
                            University Library).
               
                     tation, which he declared had never done any good to any party,
                    section or class, he appealed to conservative Republicans in Indiana.12 Some
                    fifteen newspapers were reported as favorable to the candidacy of Bates.13 These
                    papers were widely scattered throughout the State from the southern border to the northern border.
                    John D. Defrees, editor of the Daily Atlas, was a supporter of Bates, who was
                    likewise favored by Schuyler Colfax, editor of the 
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         Register. Colfax believed that if Seward were nominated "we shall go
                    forward to a defeat as inevitable as election day." On the other hand he believed success
                    to be certain with Bates.14
            
            The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Journal had a good word for Judge John McLean and also for Abraham
                    Lincoln. An editorial appearing a few weeks before the meeting of the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention ran as follows: "Judge McLean of 
                        Ohio
                     and Mr. Lincoln of 
                        Illinois
                     present a strong claim on the attention of the Republican Convention. Next to Judge
                    McLean we believe Abraham Lincoln of 
                        Illinois
                     presents the best combination of qualities as a candidate and officer."15
            
            A short time later the Journal advised that "if Lincoln should prove the
                    safest candidate, let us take him, … Take a Republican whom [sic] we
                    know can secure the indifferent anti-slavery feeling."16
            
            The writer has been unable to find any newspaper in Indiana that came out more strongly for Lincoln
                    than the Journal in the foregoing statement. That he had friends in Indiana is
                    well known. The Lincoln-Douglas debates had attracted widespread attention in the State, and
                    Hoosiers had attended some of them in considerable numbers, especially the one at 
                        Charleston
                    , where an Indiana band led the Lincoln parade.17 Lincoln had been
                    well received on the occasion of his visit to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in September, 1859, when he delivered a two hour address on the political issues of the
                    day. There was much in common between Lincoln and the conservative leaders of the Republican Party
                    in Indiana. He, like Lane, had been an ardent supporter of Henry 
                        Clay
                     in former days. His views on the slavery question did not antagonize the more
                    conservative 
                  
                     12 D. W. Bartlett, Presidential Candidates (
                                New York
                            , 1859), p. 121.
                  
                     13
                            
                        
                                    Madison
                                 Daily Courier, February 21, 1860.
                  
                     14 O. J. Hollister, Life of Colfax (
                                New York
                            , 1886), pp. 148-144.
                  
                     15
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Daily Journal, April 19, 1860.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., April 26, 1860.
                  
                     17 Edwin E. Sparks, (Editor), The Lincoln-Douglas
                            Debates, 
                                Illinois
                             Historical Collections, Vol. III, p. 267.
               
                     members of the party. The Bates men in Indiana could consistently
                    vote for the man who had himself declared to his friend, O. H. Browning, that he might "be
                    right in supposing Mr. Bates as the strongest and best man we can run."18 In short there was nothing to prevent Indiana Republicans from giving their support to the
                    former Hoosier resident in case he should prove to be the most available candidate.
            The twenty-six delegates chosen to the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention from Indiana were uninstructed. They were unpledged to any candidate. They
                    went "open to persuasion,"19 and, in a few cases at least, if
                    we may believe their statements, without personal preference.20 The four
                    delegates at large, William T. Otto of 
                        New Albany
                    , Daniel D. Pratt of 
                        Logansport
                    , Caleb B. Smith of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and P. A. Hackelman of 
                        Rushville
                     were selected by the Republican State Convention which met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 22, 1860. The district delegates, chosen previously by district
                    conventions, were announced at the same time.
            No evidence has been discovered that the 
                        Illinois
                     leaders put forth any efforts to win the Indiana delegates for Lincoln before their
                    arrival in 
                        Chicago
                    , shortly before the time for the meeting of the convention, though it is possible that
                    they may have done so. Two weeks before the convention Lincoln wrote to a friend in 
                        Ohio
                    : "It is represented to me by men who ought to know that the whole of Indiana
                    might not be difficult to get … I believe you personally know C. M. Allen of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. He is a delegate and has notified me that the entire Indiana delegation will
                    be in 
                        Chicago
                     the same day you name, Saturday, the 12th."21 As a matter
                    of fact, the day before this letter was written, Lincoln had written to C. M. Allen: "Our
                    friend Dubois and Judge David Davis of 
                        Bloomington
                    , one or both will meet you at 
                        Chicago
                    , on the 12th. If you let Usher and Griswold of 
                        Terre Haute
                     know, I think they will coöperate with you."22
                    John P. Usher and W. D. Griswold, it might be explained, were law partners in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The former had ridden the circuit with Lincoln in 
                        Illinois
                     and was a close friend. In 1863, he became Lincoln's Secretary of the 
                  
                     18
                            Diary of O. H. Browning, 
                                Illinois
                             Historical Collections, Vol. I, p. 395.
                  
                     19
                            
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Tribune, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     20
                            
                        
                                    Madison
                                 Daily Courier, February 24, 1860.
                  
                     21 Gilbert A. Tracy, Uncollected Letters of Abraham
                                Lincoln, (
                                Boston
                            , 1917), p. 146.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., p. 145.
               
                     Interior. The letters quoted above indicate that Lincoln was
                    particularly anxious to win the Indiana delegates.
            The regular delegates formed but a small part of the number who turned their faces toward the
                    convention city as the opening day approached. Every train out of 
                        Indianapolis
                     for 
                        Chicago
                    , we are told, was filled. If these newspaper reports may be relied upon, there must
                    have been hundreds of Hoosiers among the great throngs that paced the board sidewalks of the lusty
                    young city beside the Lake. What scenes greeted them! Everywhere, says an eye witness, there were
                    pictures of Lincoln and everywhere there were flags "which glimmered in the fitful light of
                    omnibus lamps and the distant radiance of street lights like stripes on a glow worm's
                        back."23
            
            Henry S. Lane was among the early arrivals. He had presided at the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention four years before. Known far and wide as an orator of first rank, he was
                    selected to deliver one of the principal addresses at the dedication of the Wigwam on Saturday night
                    preceding the week of the convention.
            The 
                        Illinois
                     leaders, with Judge David Davis at their head, from the Lincoln headquarters in the
                    Tremont House, directed their efforts at the outset toward winning the Indiana delegates. With no
                    candidate of their own, the Indiana men were in a less embarrassing position than certain other
                    states, like 
                        Pennsylvania
                     with Cameron, and 
                        New Jersey
                     with 
                        Dayton
                    . These delegates were just as desirous as was the Hoosier delegation to see Seward
                    defeated. The statements are somewhat conflicting as to when the Hoosiers were definitely won over
                    to Lincoln. Leonard Swett declared shortly after the convention adjourned: "She [Indiana]
                    was about equally divided between Bates and McLean. Saturday, Sunday, and Monday were spent upon
                    her, when she came to us unitedly with twenty-six votes, and from that time acted efficiently with
                        us."24 Swett was evidently mistaken about the matter. An informal
                    vote taken on Monday, following a full expression of opinion participated in by the delegates and
                    other citizens from Indiana, stood one each for Seward and Chase, four or five for McLean and the
                    remainder about equally divided between Bates and Lincoln. However, the person reporting the meet-
                        
                  
                     23
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Daily Journal, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     24 O.H. Oldroyd, Lincoln's Campaign (
                                Chicago
                            , 1896), p. 71.
               
                     ing, added, "there is no doubt but Lincoln will be the
                    choice of a majority if not all of our delegates."25
            
            On Tuesday the 
                        Chicago
                     correspondent of the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Journal wrote: "
                        Illinois
                     is for Lincoln always and all the time. Indiana leans in the same direction. At a
                    caucus of delegates this noon the expression was in the main for Lincoln. But our men are not
                    hidebound. They will support any man who is sound and reliable and has a decent show of strength.
                    There is a decided effort for Mr. Bates and I think it is stronger than anybody could have
                        suspected."26
            
            Later the same day, this correspondent wrote: "The Bates movement has pretty nearly run its
                    course. I think the consultations and comparisons of today have shown that he can-not be nominated
                    …. McLean may come up as the only one upon whom Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     can agree, but that is his sole chance. The opposition to Seward, which yesterday
                    manifested some disposition to concentrate on Lincoln, has gathered closer and more compactly to
                    day, and now I think he is the strongest man next to Seward. Our delegation had two long sessions
                    today in the city court room, and an informal ballot taken at the close of the last showed that
                    Lincoln had a majority though there is no preference for him that would make them stand out against
                    the honest representations of other states."27
            
            Another report of the same day had Indiana mostly for Bates.28 Still another
                    declared that Lincoln threatened Bates in this State and that the delegates were vascillating
                    between Bates and Lincoln.29 On Wednesday, the sixteenth, the day the convention
                    opened, Indiana was still reported as divided between Bates and Lincoln, with a majority for the
                        latter.30 Gustave Koerner, one of the 
                        Illinois
                     delegates at large, says that on Thursday morning, the seventeenth, while he was
                    working as one of the sub-committee of seven on the platform, word came that the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and Indiana delegates were in consultation at the court house, and that Frank Blair,
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     delegate who was the manager for Bates, was making a speech for the latter at this
                    meeting. Koerner and O. H. 
                  
                     25
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express (
                                Terre Haute
                            ), May 16, 1860.
                  
                     26
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Daily Journal, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., May 17, 1860.
                  
                     28
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     29
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Tribune, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., May 18, 1860.
               
                     Browning were immediately dispatched to counteract the movement.
                    Koerner obtained the floor as soon as he could, declaring that Bates might secure the German votes
                    of 
                        St. Louis
                    , but that if nominated he would not get the votes of German Republicans anywhere else.
                    Browning followed with an eloquent appeal to Whig sentiment, emphasizing the fact that Lincoln had
                    been a Whig and certainly ought to satisfy those who still adhered to Whig principles in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and Indiana. "The delegates then held a secret session," Koerner
                    asserts, "and we soon learned that Indiana would go for Lincoln at the start, and that a
                    large majority of the Pennsylvanians had agreed to vote for him for their second
                        choice."31
            
            Apparently, therefore, the Indiana delegates were definitely won over by Thursday evening. In the
                    conferences of that night, Indiana took a leading part. Henry S. Lane was seen at one
                    o'clock, pale and haggard, walking as if for a wager, from one caucus to another at the
                    Tremont house. His plea was that the nomination of Seward would be followed by certain defeat in
                        Indiana.32 Andrew G. Curtain, the Republican nominee for governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , expressed himself in the same manner. The attitude of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     delegates was uncertain, however, until a caucus on Friday morning after the first
                    ballot had been taken.33
            
            Of more importance than the question of when the Indiana delegates were won for Lincoln is that of
                    how they were won. It has been stated again and again that it was the promise of a Cabinet position
                    to Caleb B. Smith that finally secured their support. Charles Gibson, one of the leading Bates
                    supporters of 1860, said in later years: "We had nearly all Indiana and a large portion of
                    the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     delegation. Davis, Swett, and others acting for Mr. Lincoln bought our votes in those
                    states by agreeing to give Simon Cameron and Caleb B. Smith cabinet positions'. Thurlow
                    Weed controlled Seward's votes absolutely, and had agreed with me that if Seward was not
                    nominated that morning he would combine on Bates and nom- 
                  
                     31
                            Memoirs of Oastave Koerner (Cedar Rapids, 1909), Vol. II, pp. 87-89.
                  
                     32 Murat Halstead, A History of the National Political
                                Conventions (
                                Columbus
                            , 1860), p. 142.
                  
                     33 Frank B. Carpenter, "How Lincoln was nominated",
                            in Century Magazine, Vol., II (n. 8.). pp. 857-858.
               
                     inate him. But for votes purchased from Bates, Lincoln could not
                    have been nominated."34
            
            If this be true, it was a case of the theft of a nomination, a great steal. The thing that won the
                    Indiana delegation, however, was not the offer of a Cabinet position, but rather the cogent
                    arguments of the 
                        Illinois
                     leaders that Abraham Lincoln, a former resident of southern Indiana, was the best man
                    for the opposition to unite on, that he, better than any other candidate, would get the southern
                    Whig vote in the State. The Lincoln atmosphere, to which the delegates were constantly subjected in 
                        Chicago
                    , doubtless helped. Had the convention been held in 
                        St. Louis
                    , which lost it by only one vote, and had Bates possessed as able leaders as Lincoln to
                    look after his interests, it is probable that the Indiana delegates would have been won for Bates,
                    and that the latter would have been the nominee.
            There seems no doubt that Caleb B. Smith was promised a cabinet position. In fact, Judge Davis
                    admitted later that such a pledge was made. Judge William T. Otto, one of the Indiana delegates at
                    large, is authority for the statement that Caleb B. Smith made Judge Davis believe that he must be
                    promised a position in the Cabinet in order to secure the support of the Indiana delegates. Whereas,
                    the facts of the case were, according to Judge Otto, that after looking over the ground at 
                        Chicago
                    , they decided to go for Lincoln and cared nothing for Smith obtaining a position in the
                        Cabinet.35
            
            The climax of the great drama came on Friday morning. On that memorable day, Indiana played a
                    conspicuous rôle. The nomination of Abraham Lincoln was seconded by Caleb B. Smith in
                    behalf of the Indiana delegates. This was the signal for a demonstration which has few equals in
                    convention history. Henry S. Lane is reported to have leaped upon a table and swaying hat and cane
                    to have performed like an acrobat. When the balloting started, Indiana's twenty-six votes
                    were cast for Lincoln. Only one other state gave him its entire vote on the first ballot. That was 
                        Illinois
                     whose twenty-two delegates were under instructions to vote as a unit 
                  
                     34 Charles Gibson, "Edward Bates," In 
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society Collections (1900), Vol. 2, p. 65.
                  
                     35 Matilda Gresham, life of Walter Q. Greeham (
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), Vol., I., pp. 110-111. In regard to Smith's dealings with
                            Judge Davis, Mrs. Gresham says: "That the pledge was made, I have heard from Judge
                            Davis's own lips. That it was kept, everybody knows, for Caleb B. Smith became the
                            first Secretary of the Interior in Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet". Ibid., I, 111.
               
                     for the 
                        Illinois
                     candidate. Otherwise, it is doubtful if the entire vote of Lincoln's own State
                    would have been so cast. The Seward men in the 
                        Decatur
                     convention had strenuously resisted instructions. Fully one-third of the 
                        Illinois
                     delegates, it is said, would gladly have gone for the 
                        New York
                     man.36 The united support of the Indiana delegates produced a more
                    marked effect on the convention. On the second ballot, on the third and on the last, the same
                    twenty-six votes from Indiana were given to Lincoln.
            Addressing the convention shortly after the nomination, Caleb B. Smith drew a picture which doubtless
                    struck a responsive cord in the hearts of all Hoosiers present in the Wigwam that morning.
                    "Thirty years ago," he declared, "on the Southern frontier of Indiana
                    might have been seen a humble, ragged boy, barefooted, driving his oxen through the hills."
                    In explaining the efforts of the Indiana delegates in behalf of this former resident of Indiana, the
                    speaker said: "It is not that we loved Seward less but because we loved the great Re
                    publican cause more. … I assure you that the Republican flag will wave in triumph upon
                    the soil of Indiana."37
            
            Lincoln's nomination was the result of a chain of circumstances, no one of which alone could
                    have brought it about. The Lincoln-Douglas debates lifted him into the national vision.38 The Cooper Institute address and the 
                        New England
                     tour which followed won the attention of the East. The meeting of the convention at 
                        Chicago
                     gave to it a Lincoln background. The yelling and spectacular demonstrations may or may
                    not have helped. The powerful opposition of Horace Greeley, Who, as it was learned later, had
                    written a letter six years before announcing the dissolution of the political firm of Seward, Weed,
                    and Greeley, weakened Seward and created doubts as to his availability.39 The
                    adroit leadership of the 
                        Illinois
                     group was indispensable. Could these leaders have succeeded if the Indiana delegates
                    had not responded to their entreaties and rallied to the support of their candidate?
            
               
                  36
                        Personal Recollections of John M. Palmer (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1901), pp. 80-81.
               
                  37
                        
                     
                                Chicago
                             Tribune, May 19, 1860.
               
                  38 Frederic L. Paxson, The Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1911), p. 30. "Stephen A. Douglas Lifted Lincoln into the national
                        vision"; see also, Allen Johnson, Stephen A. Douglas (
                            New York
                        , 1908), Ch. XVI.
               
                  39 Thurlow Weed Memoirs (
                            Boston
                        , 1884), Vol. II, pp. 273-277.
            
            
            It is true that enough votes were transferred to Lincoln after the third ballot to secure the
                    nomination for him without the votes of Indiana. But would this situation have existed had not
                    Indiana lent her aid before the balloting started? It seems reasonable to conclude that if the
                    Indiana delegates had decided to support Bates or some one else that the other doubtful states where
                    Seward was weak, after giving complimentary votes to their own favorite, would have concentrated on
                    the same man in order to defeat Seward.
            This view was expressed by many in attendance at the famous convention. Horace Greeley wrote in the
                    columns of the Tribune: "The Indiana delegation, having no candidate in
                    their own state to embarrass their action and perfectly unanimous in the conviction that to nominate
                    Governor Seward was to invoke defeat in their state and in the Union, were most efficient in the
                    canvass, while their early adhesion to Lincoln nearly narrowed the contest to him and
                        Seward."40 The 
                        Chicago
                     correspondent of the 
                  
                            Madison
                         Daily Courier wrote in a similar vein: "To the Indiana delegation and
                    to outside Indianians much, very much of the credit and glory of the nomination is due. …
                    Indeed I claim that your delegation did more toward the result than any other. Your gallant Henry S.
                    Lane, Caleb B. Smith, and General Steel of 
                        Rockville
                     were indefatigable, untiring, and persistent in uring the claims of Old Abe and large
                    numbers of delegates from other states are known to have been influenced by them, and others from
                    your State. … Indiana has won the lasting gratitude of 
                        Illinois
                     for her aid in effecting the nomination."41
            
            Even more to the point is the statement of John D. Defrees in a letter to Colfax: "We Bates
                    men of Indiana concluded that the only way to beat Seward was to go for Lincoln as a unit.
                    … We made the nomination."42
            
            The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Journal had this to add: "There is no doubt but that the
                    unanimity of the Indiana delegation for Lincoln was the cause of his nomination. If Indiana had
                    divided, or given her strength to any other candidate, it is absolutely certain that no
                    concentration could have been made on Lincoln, for it was only the united efforts of Indiana and
                        
                  
                     40 Quoted in 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Daily Journal, May 25, 1860.
                  
                     41
                            
                                
                                    Madison
                                
                             [Indiana] Daily Courier, May 21, 1860.
                  
                     42 Hollister, Life of Colfax, p. 148.
               
                    
                    
                        Illinois
                     men that secured the coöperation of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and some 
                        New England
                     States at the last hour. The firmness and unanimity of Indiana, who had no candidate to
                    interfere with a disinterested choice, nothing to induce her to adhere to any man from personal
                    motives, and no purpose but to produce a result which would command the widest approval, was
                    acknowledged on all hands at 
                        Chicago
                     to be the primary and potential cause of Lincoln's nomination."43
            
            It remains to examine the way in which the nomination was received in Indiana. To radicals like
                    Julian, the failure of Chase or Seward to secure the nomination was a severe disappointment. It was
                    Julian's belief that the nomination of Lincoln was secured by a "superficial and
                    only half-developed Republicanism" bent alone upon success.44 It was
                    not Julian's nature, however, to sulk in his tent. He gave to the ticket his support in the
                    campaign and came to have a more favorable opinion of the 
                        Illinois
                     man following a visit to 
                        Springfield
                     in January, 1861.45
            
            The leading Democratic newspaper of the State, the Daily Sentinel, in true partisan
                    style, declared that it would be difficult for any Republican to state a single qualification that
                    Mr. Lincoln possessed for the office of President. The nomination was deplored at a time when a man
                    of preëminent ability and great experience was required "to successfully guide
                    the ship of state through the shoals and rocks seen and unseen which threaten danger on every
                        side."46
            
            The masses of Indiana Republicans greeted the nomination of Lincoln with great enthusiasm.47 The newspapers are filled with accounts of ratification meetings. Upon the
                    receipt of the news of the nomination in 
                        Indianapolis
                     a round of one hundred guns was fired. In the evening an enormous crowd packed the
                    crossing of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Washington
                     Streets. A huge bonfire was lighted. Rockets were discharged. Speeches were called for.
                    One of the men to respond was Benjamin Harrison, then but twenty-seven years of age, the Republican
                    candidate for Reporter of the State Supreme Court.48
            
            
               
                  43
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, May 26, 1860.
               
                  44 George W. Julian, Political Recollections (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), p. 177.
               
                  45 George W. Julian, in Reminiscences of Abraham
                        Lincoln, edited by Allen Thorndike Rice, pp. 47-65.
               
                  46
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Sentinel, May 19, 1860.
               
                  47
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, May 22 and 23, 1860.
               
                  48
                        
                     
                                Chicago
                             Tribune, May 22, 1860.
            
            
            Some papers were quick to discover elements of greatness in Lincoln. "There are
                    today," declared the 
                  
                            Terre Haute
                         Express in somewhat bombastic fashion, "more of the elements of
                    universal popularity in the character and personal history of ‘honest Abe
                    Lincoln’ of 
                        Illinois
                     than any other man on the American continent. … Since the days when all that
                    was great and good sank to rest around the quiet shades of 
                        Mount Vernon
                    —since the great debater of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , the sage of 
                        Monticello
                    , the logician of 
                        South Carolina
                    , and the ‘Constitutional expounder’ closed their eyes to the
                    bright sunlight, we do believe no truer man, no abler man, no sincerer man has lived than Abraham
                        Lincoln."49
            
            Another paper, the 
                  
                            Vincennes
                         Gazette, rejoiced that a man of the people, and not a time serving politician
                    had been selected and made the standard bearer of freedom in the coming contest.50
            
            If any further proof is needed of the enthusiastic response of Indiana Republicans to
                    Lincoln's candidacy it is only necessary to refer to the great Republican rally held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in August. The meeting, according to newspaper accounts of the time, was one of the
                    largest ever held in Indiana. From all the surrounding countryside delegations came in to the
                    capital city to participate in the grand procession. Organizations known as "Wide
                    Awakes," "Rail Maulers," "Lincoln Rangers of Liberty,"
                    and "Old Abe's Boys," streamed in all day long. One thing of unusual
                    interest was a huge wagon filled with "pioneers" actually splitting rails from a
                    log. The wagon was drawn by forty-three yoke of oxen, the entire outfit stretched along the whole
                    front of the capitol square, for a distance of more than four hundred feet.51
            
            In conclusion, Indiana not only nurtured Lincoln during those formative years in which he grew from
                    youth to manhood, but she played a very prominent part in making him the sixteenth president of the 
                        United States
                    . "I am indeed much indebted to Indiana," wrote Lincoln to Caleb B.
                    Smith the week following his nomination. Well might he have felt grateful to her. Without the aid of
                    Indiana, Lincoln might never have become "The Great Emancipator," "The
                    First American."
            
               
                  49 Quoted in 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, May 22, 1860.
               
                  50 Quoted in 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, May 22, 1860.
               
                  51
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, August 30, 1860.
            
         
         
         
            Foreigners and Their Influence on Indiana.∗
            
            By Robert L. Lafollette
            A very large part of American history has been the story of the adaptation of immigrants and their
                    descendants to the soil and environment of a newly discovered continent whose possibilities have not
                    yet been fully realized. The mold, a product of nature, which was to fashion and influence that
                    which flowed into it, had long existed in the form of a wide expanse of land. Yet it did not and
                    could not create its contents. As long as the contact of the migrating people with the land was
                    intimate and wellnigh universal, the people took on its qualities—qualities which
                    modified those persons who had recently come, and made out of their children who were at least one
                    step removed from the old home and society something different. As newer generations sprang from
                    their loins, the difference increased with their passing farther and farther away from the older
                    colonies and European influence. As available land has become less plentiful the Americanizing force
                    has diminished partly because the natives are not rejuvenated by—and largely because
                    newcomers can not come in contact with—a frontier environment that has passed in some
                    sections and is in the process of passing in the country.
            There is a vital and close economic relation between land and people. From land with the application
                    of labor come the necessities of life: food, clothing, and shelter. The subsistence of the people is
                    derived from the land. As the number of people increases in proportion to the supply of land the
                    competition for the products of the land becomes more severe. In 1920, fourteen per cent, more crop
                    land was cultivated but by fourteen per cent, fewer farmers than in 1910.1
            
            The increase in the use of fertilizer and machinery cannot go on former. The point of diminishing
                    returns will be reached. Moreover our population is increasing at an annual rate of about 1,500,000.
                    The frontier line practically disappeared by 1890, and free and unoccupied land in the 
                        United States
                     has likewise disappeared with the exception of mountain masses and semi-desert. The
                    press of population in relation 
                  
                     ∗ Read before the Indiana History Conference, December 7,
                            1928.
                  
                     1 Isaiah Bowman, Supplement to the New World, p.
                        8.
               
                     to land grows upon us. Moreover, the departure of people from
                    foreign lands does not relieve population conditions in the countries from which they come in any
                    permanent way. With the moving out of immigrants to the 
                        United States
                    , children become less a liability, economic pressure lessens and people do not crack so
                    soon under the strain. Vacancies within the ranks are soon filled. Professor Fairchild has well
                    developed this idea.2
            
            There is also the social aspect of this problem of immigration. Whenever a more advanced people comes
                    in contact with a less advanced population increment, there is always interaction. The superior
                    tends to be pulled down to the level of the inferior. The degree of the lowering will depend
                    somewhat on the proportion of numbers. The resultant culture is neither as low as the inferior nor
                    as high as the superior. It falls between the two levels. The relation of this truth to the
                    condition where the immigrant increment from southern and southeastern Europe to a section has been
                    large is significant. 
                        New England
                     is such a section. Especially is this true of the southern group of 
                        New England
                     States, 
                  Massachusetts, Connecticut
               , and 
                        Rhode Island
                    . The foreign element has grown to preponderance. In 1850, the native white element in
                    the combined population of 
                  Maine, New Hampshire
               , and 
                        Vermont
                     constituted 928 out of every 1000 people. In 1920, this element in these three States
                    constituted 612 out of every 1000. In the three lower States of 
                        New England
                    , the native white element numbered 816 out of every 1000 inhabitants of these states in
                    1850. Seventy years later, there were but 367 persons of the native element in every 1000 people.
                    This native white element is on the way to submergence by sheer failure to maintain its numbers.
                    Will this do more than accentuate a social class division where the native distinctly feels himself
                    superior to the foreigner who in his turn tacitly admits his inferiority? Why use the population
                    numbers of 1890 as the basis for an immigration restrictive measure? Is there justification for the
                    attempt to decrease the immigrant stream from southern and southeastern Europe to the 
                        United States
                    ? In a State, of the Middle West, where the foreign element is relatively small, typical
                    settlements of people from both the southern and southeastern and the northern and northwestern
                    European immigrant streams can be studied by a method of 
                  
                     2 Henry P. Fairchild, "End of Race Migrations", in
                                Yale Review. XI. pp. 826-888.
               
                     comparison. Indiana offers us fairly isolated and uncontaminated
                    settlements as objects for study.
            Let us briefly examine the migration of foreigners to the State of Indiana. It seems a far cry from
                    these present days of restriction to the time when practically every State had its bureau of
                    emigration whose duty it was to encourage foreigners to come as settlers. In January, 1865, Governor
                    Oliver P. Morton of Indiana urged legislation to check the people from passing by or through the
                    State to settle elsewhere.8 In November of this same year, we find this State
                    executive advising the sending of a representative to the French Universal Exposition to advertise
                    to Europeans "the great resources, progress, and wealth of the State, the energy,
                    intelligence and refinement of her people, and the superior inducements and advantages presented to
                    immigration." Especially did Indiana appeal to the Germans. They were warned against the
                    South, "a region impoverished, thinned of its population and disorganized by rebellion,
                    where they will find' but few vestiges of German society, where schools have not been
                    encouraged, where labor is without respect and without adequate reward and where the natives of more
                    northern latitudes will contend with the ills of an enervating climate." The advantages of
                    a growing community over either an older or an infant one were pointed out. In Indiana, it was
                    argued, no hardships of a frontier life would have to be experienced. Apparent cheapness of lands in
                    the West might prove illusive. In Indiana there was ready opportunity for work on or near farms
                    already opened. Here was society organized. Attention was called to the possibility of finding a
                    neighborhood of the same nativity or religion, i. e., there would be Prussians near Prussians,
                    Bavarians near Bavarians, and Hanoverians near Hanoverians. Said John A. Wilstach, the Indiana
                    Commissioner of Emigration in 1866: "We need the working man of Europe here to plow to the
                    surface the golden cereal wealth of our primitive prairies. We need him to give work to those latent
                    incorporeal but Titanic forces, those Samsons, which play in our streamlets, bathe in our rivers,
                    and slumber in our beds of coal."4
            
            These efforts had their influence, but the foreign element in Indiana has always been comparatively
                    small. Out of a 
                  
                     3
                            Circular of the Indiana Commission of Emigration, 1866, p. 1.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 1866, p. 7.
               
                     foreign-born population of 4,158,474 in the North Central States
                    in 1900, Indiana had but 142,121 or a little more than three per cent, of the total. With the
                    exception of the period from 1850 to 1870, Indiana's foreign-born population has increased
                    very slowly. From 1870 to 1890, there was an absolute increase of only 4,731 in the foreign-born
                    population of the State. A decrease the decade between 1890 and 1900, made the increase in the
                    number of foreign-born in Indiana in 1900 over the number within the state in 1870, only 647. In
                    1900, 1910 and 1920, the foreign-born element made HP less than six per cent, of the total
                    population of Indiana. It is the least foreign of all the States of the old Northwest.5 In 1910, the foreign-born population was distributed by birth among the principal
                    countries as follows: 
                        Germany
                    , 39 per cent.; 
                        Hungary
                    , 9; 
                        Austria
                    , 7; 
                        Ireland
                    , 7; 
                        England
                    , 6; Russia, 6; 
                        Italy
                    , 4; 
                        Canada
                    , 4; Sweden, 2; 
                        Scotland
                    , 2. Omitting 
                  Hungary, Germany
                contributed more than all the others combined. It is very clear
                    that the northern and northwestern Europeans preponderated. They have always done so in the State of
                    Indiana. With this background, we will now consider the political, social, and economic influences
                    of the Germans as representative of the northern and northwestern Europeans, and then follow this
                    with a study of the Poles as representative of the eastern Europeans. 
                        Richmond
                     in 
                        Wayne County
                     and Westphalia and Freelandville in 
                        Knox County
                     will be taken as the German settlements. Rolling 
                        Prairie
                     and Otis in 
                        Laporte County
                     will serve as the basis for the study of Poles.
            The Germans are not nearly so isolated in any case and especially is this true of those in 
                        Richmond
                    , as are the Poles. Yet we are able to study them as to their political, social, and
                    economic influence. Many of the Germans who migrated to Indiana in the years following 1850 were Bauerknechte who had been receiving a very small wage in 
                        Germany
                    . They came to the 
                        United States
                     to better their economic condition. Some came to escape military service and some to
                    breathe freely of an atmosphere of greater freedom. Their industry and economy enabled them to
                    engage in business enterprises. In 
                        Richmond
                     the three largest retail stores are owned by Germans.6 In
                    Westphalia and Freelandville, practically all such stores are operated by Germans. According to the
                    Dunn Com- 
                  
                     5 These figures are all taken from the U. S. Census reports for the
                            respective years.
                  
                     6 Fred J. Bartel, Institutional Influence of the German
                                element in the population of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana, p. 16.
               
                     mercial Ageny's reference book of 1899, out of 468
                    business establishments of 
                        Richmond
                    , there were 179 owners of German extraction. They also operated the saloons. In the 
                        Richmond
                     directory of 1899, there were 3354 German names, or about thirty and a half per cent,
                    of the population were German. They also owned a large percentage of the real estate.7 In all these cases, the Germans were and are home owners. It is clear that as a people,
                    they are an economic asset. The effect of homeowning on citizenship has been well demonstrated.
            In religion, the Germans are active as church members. They are loyal to the church which not only
                    ministers to their religious needs, but serves as a medium for social intercourse. Their ministers
                    are very highly respected.
            They have their parochial schools but only the German Catholics are insistent upon State support for
                    them. As in their home country, illiteracy is practically non-existent among them. The children
                    often become grade and high school teachers and parents serve on the school board. There is little
                    objection to the payment of the school taxes. There is no social ban against the Germans. The
                    younger generation takes up the amusements of the natives of the same age-period. They enrich the
                    musical life of the communities in which they live.
            In politics there is no marked German solidarity in these communities. Respect for the law and
                    authority is bred in the bone. In summary, the Germans in these communities are intelligent,
                    industrious, and economical. They become naturalized and are relatively easily assimilated.
            Otis in 
                        Laporte county
                    , Indiana, was founded in 1861 by three Polish families. They began as laborers,
                    clearing the land, ditching and doing general farm work. In two or three years land was purchased.
                    Other families came and the community began to look upon these Poles as a source of labor for
                    clearing, wood splitting, and ditching. The wood was easily sold as the railroads used wood for
                    fuel. In 1872, there was founded a Polish Roman Catholic church and the church records show sixty
                    families at that time. This really determined that the settlement would be permanent as the church
                    gave a center of community and race interest. They would now stay as an agreeable social life was
                    assured—and among their own people. The lands which they purchased were usually the less
                    fertile or the depleted. That they are cautious is shown 
                  
                            7
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     by the fact that the colony has never had a single case of
                    mortgage foreclosure in its history.8
            
            The first houses of the Poles9 were hardly sufficient for shelter. The wife and
                    children helped with the crops. It was not unusual to see a woman chopping wood or helping to cut
                    tree trunks into logs. These huts have given away to houses of five to eight or even ten rooms.
                    Although the families are ordinarily large,10 this improvement is not wholly due
                    to this. In many instances there is a parlor in addition to the living room. Most Polish women give
                    little attention to cooking. Meats and potatoes are consumed in large quantities. Among the more
                    prosperous families, the field work of the women and girls has been lessened somewhat, but the
                    poorer have not changed much in this respect.
            The majority of the Poles own their own farms and have very good bank accounts. Out of thirty farms
                    investigated there were only four which showed indebtedness. The total amount of indebtedness
                    reported was $4,775. This is probably below the true figure but it is indicative of the
                        situation.11
            
            Social life centers chiefly about the church. Picnics and suppers are held there. Since practically
                    every family attends church, social intercourse is obtained in that way. Much is made of weddings
                    and christenings. They are largely attended and a spirit of jollity pervades such affairs.
                    Receptions and dancing follow these events. There is some association with the natives at public
                    gatherings but very little at purely social functions. Indeed, it is so infrequent as to be
                    negligible. The Poles are all Catholics, while almost all the natives are Protestants so the church
                    meetings of the two are separate. The church does not bring them together. The relations between the
                    natives and the Poles are business relations. The Poles are honest and have gained the respect of
                    business men. There are parochial schools for children through the first eight grades, where
                    "all subjects are taught in English except Polish history and the Polish
                        language."12 The interest in public school education is on the
                    increase.
            
               
                  8
                        U. S. Senate Document, 683, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 162.
               
                  9 The Poles are now treated as a group, as the history of one settlement
                        is typical of all those in northwestern Indiana.
               
                  10
                        U. S. Senate Doc., 282, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 208.
               
                  11
                        U. S. Senate Doc., 633, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 276.
               
                  12
                        U. S. Senate Doc., 633, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 279. Thus are Polish traditions
                        preserved and passed on.
            
            
            Nearly all the Poles are voters under the laws of Indiana. They have held such minor offices as tax
                    assessor, road supervisor, and school commissioner, but the one candidate who has ever run for
                    county office was defeated by a few votes. The majority take some newspaper printed in English and
                    more than one printed in Polish. Most of the latter are printed in this country.
            In summary, it may be said that the Poles have increased the wealth of the communities in which they
                    are located. They have cleared, drained, and improved poor land which would not have become
                    productive so soon had it not been for their work. Their example has stimulated better farming and
                    care of the soil. This all has to do with economic conditions. Socially they are a misfit. Their
                    fellow immigrants from 
                        Ireland
                     consider them inferior. They constitute a little 
                        Poland
                     in northwestern Indiana.
            It is quite clear that the Germans are much more easily assimilated than the Poles. The Poles do not
                    even mix well and certainly are not fused with the native element through marriages nor by mingling
                    in the life of the larger community. Says W. S. Rossiter of the British and Germans: "They
                    may be classed merely as belated arrivals of the original settler stock who were speedily and
                    completely assimilated."13 The Poles differing from these in instincts,
                    tendencies, history, and traditions, as they do from the natives, have many characteristics to
                    prevent assimilation.
            The difficulty of amalgamation has been greatly increased with the increase in the number of Roman
                    Catholics among the immigrants. Religion is an inward business deeply rooted through inheritance of
                    long standing. Age-old religious adherence is not easily undermined. The 
                        United States
                     is essentially Protestant, even a Calvinistic country. Immigration before 1870 was made
                    up almost entirely of increments of English, Scotch, Irish, and German peoples. The majority of
                        
                  
                     13 William S. Rossiter, "Why We Need the Immigrant"
                            in Review of Reviews, March 1907, p. 319.
                  
                     14 The question is neither one of superiority of breed nor faith
                            primarily, but rather as to whether we should seek to approximate our population conditions
                            which existed before the new immigration set in. We can never revert to them. Or are we
                            obtaining, as some claim, a desirable unity of variety, a symphony whose nationalistic
                            strains are blending in a beautiful harmony of a composite nationality in place of the dead
                            uniformity of a monotone? Or do we have merely a collective nationality?
               
                     these were Protestants.14 As late as 1850,
                    there were less than one hundred Roman Catholic churches in the six States of 
                        New England
                    .15 The great increase in the number of Roman Catholics has
                    corresponded with the increase in immigrants from southern and southeastern Europe.16 The increase was gradually growing larger from 1870 to 1890, and also in the last decade of
                    the nineteenth century Roman Catholic immigrants were distinctly in the majority. "From
                    1900 to 1906 new arrivals were practically all either Roman Catholics or non-christian."17 The fact that these people do not meet the natives in church services makes
                    it more difficult to assimilate them and aggravates their clannishness. The Roman Catholic Church
                    makes it a point to provide different churches and priests of their own kin for the foreigners of
                    various nationalities and languages,18 consequently they develop along divergent
                    lines. There is accommodation and toleration but little assimilation.19
            
            There are many States in which there has been a greater increase in Roman Catholics than in
                    Protestants per thousand of the total population in the period since 1890.20
                    Indiana is not one of these, yet is surrounded by States that do come under this classification. Why
                    does Indiana have comparatively so few Roman Catholics? Just what relation does the foreign
                    population bear to this condition? Why does Indiana receive comparatively few of the foreign
                    immigrants? To what extent is it due to economic opportunities and attitudes?
            Listing the States of the Old Northwest in accordance with rank as to percentages of foreign-born and
                    as to percentages of Roman Catholics we have the following for 1900:21
            
            
               
                   
                  Foreign-Born
                  Roman Catholics
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wisconsin
                            
                        
                  24.9 (per cent.)
                  50.5 (per cent.)
               
               
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  22.4
                  50.1
               
               
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  20.1
                  44.0
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  11.0
                  32.0
               
               
                  Indiana
                  5.6
                  18.0
               
            
            
               
                  15
                        U. S. Census, 1860, p. lvii. The exact number was 82—distributed
                        among the six states as follows: 
                            Maine
                        , 12; 
                            New Hampshire
                        , 2; 
                            Vermont
                        , 8; 
                            Massachusetts
                        , 41; 
                            Connecticut
                        , 12; and 
                            Rhode Island
                        , 7.
               
                  16 Of 12,079,142 communicants of the Roman Catholic Church in the 
                            United States
                         in 1906 (the first report after that of 1890 being issued in that year although
                        there is much reason to give the statistics as of 1900) 5,838,658 were in the North Atlantic
                        States. Note: These figures do not include any Roman Catholic communicants under the age of 9.
                        On the same basis there were 3,946,752 Roman Catholics in the North Central States, of whom
                        Indiana had 174,849. Religious Bodies, Vol. II, p. 609, Special Report of the 
                            United States
                         Census Bureau, 1906.
               
                  18 Special Report of U. S. Census Bureau, Religious
                        Bodies, (1906) II, p. 602.
               
                  19
                        U. S. Senate Doc., No. 633, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., Vols., I and II, Passim.
               
               
                  20 U. S. Census, 1900, Population, I, p. civ.
               
                  21 Special Report of U. S. Census Bureau, Religious
                        Bodies, (1906) I, p. 47.
            
            
            In the above table, we have these States taking the same rank as to percentages of Roman Catholics as
                    in percentages of the foreign-born in their population in every case. In general, the original stock
                    is the source of Protestants.22
            
            Out of a foreign-born population of 4,158,474 in the North Central States in 1900, Indiana had but
                    142,121 or a little more than three per cent. Indiana's foreign-born population has
                    increased very slowly, save in the period from 1850 to 1870, as the following table shows:23
            
            
               
                   
                  Foreign-Born
                  Increase
               
               
                  1850
                  55,572
                  —
               
               
                  1860
                  118,284
                  62,712
               
               
                  1870
                  141,474
                  23,190
               
               
                  1880
                  144,178
                  2,704
               
               
                  1890
                  146,205
                  2,027
               
               
                  1900
                  142,121
                  (decrease) 4,084
               
            
            It is common knowledge that the flow of immigrants to this country bears a distinct relation to
                    imports and exports, which is another way of saying that they come in times of business prosperity
                    in greater numbers. The economic motive was the primary influence in the latter half of the
                    nineteenth century.24 Immigrants were not forced to come to have life, but
                    rather did they come to live more abundantly. We are not to suppose that the economic influence
                    ceased to motivate after they touched the shores of the 
                        United States
                    . We find them going where economic opportunity was greatest. They made their way into
                    the newer rural States and into the old States strongly urban.25 Indiana did not
                    fall within either of these classifications. She was comparatively small and her land was early
                    taken up. Furthermore, Indiana has no metropolis, largely because she has no hinterland with rich
                    natural resources. Then too, her territory serves as hinterland for 
                  
                     22 According to a letter written by John Carroll, superior or perfect
                            apostolic of the Roman Catholic Church in the thirteen colonies, in 1785 there were 15,800
                            communicants in 
                                Maryland
                            , 700 in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 200 in 
                                Virginia
                            , and 1,500 in 
                                New York
                            . In 1807 there were reported 80 churches and 150,000 communicants. Religious Bodies, II, pp. 601-602, Special Report of the 
                                United States
                             Census Bureau, 1906.
                  
                     23
                            U. S. Census, 1870, 1890, and 1900. The foreign element numbered 841,000
                            in 1870.
                  
                     24
                            Emigration Conditions in Europe, U. S. Senate Doc., No. 748, 61 Cong., 3
                            Sess., ch. IV.
                  
                     25
                            E. g. The Poles concentrate in the North Central and prairie states. In
                            1910, these states had 90.7% of the Polish farmers and 55.7% of the
                            Polish Farm laborers of the 
                                United States
                            . 
                                Wisconsin
                             alone had 30.3% of the Polish farmers of the country. In this state
                            they are located on the cutover lands for the most part. U. S. Senate
                            Document No. 688, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 153. 
                        New York, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania
                     , and 
                                Illinois
                             of the urban states would lose about half their population if the foreign
                            element were removed.
               
                     the cities of her sister States.26 With the
                    exception of the steel plants in 
                        Lake County
                    , Indiana's industries do not lend themselves to the employment of the cheap
                    laborers coming from southern and eastern Europe.27 Says John R. Commons:
                    "The desire to get cheap labor, to take in passenger fares, and to sell cheap land have
                    probably brought more immigrants than the hard conditions of Europe, Asia, and Africa have
                        sent."28
            
            Although the economic motive is primary, letters from friends constitute the most important
                    contributory cause of immigration.29
                    
                        Germany
                     has always furnished the bulk of immigrants to Indiana. Most of these came before 1870.
                    They were farmers as were their friends. As late as 1871, 75 per cent, of the population of 
                        Germany
                     was classed as rural, while 66% per cent, lived in rural villages of less
                    than 2,000 people.30 Moreover, emigration from 
                        Germany
                     decreased in proportion to industrialization. Indeed, it was necessary to import
                    laborers into 
                        Germany
                    
               31 so that with the improvement of conditions in their native
                    country, the 
                        United States
                     no longer attracted many Germans. Nor had the calm water of Bismarckian peace been
                    ruffled during these years.
            Let us analyze the foreign-born population of Indiana more minutely. Distributed according to place
                    of birth the principal countries were represented by the following numbers in a total of 141,474 in
                    1870 and 142,121 in 1900:32
            
            
               
                   
                  1870
                  1900
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  78,060
                  73,546
               
               
                  Great Britain and 
                                Ireland
                            
                  
                  42,266
                  32,068
               
               
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  6,363
                  2,984
               
            
            
               
                  26 The word metropolis is used here in the sense of
                        metropolitan economy.
               
                  27 In this county are located Gary, 
                     Hammond, East Chicago
                  ,
                        and Indiana Harbor. The city of Gary is largely a creation of the U. S. Steel Corporation. In
                        April, 1906, the site was sand dunes, marshes, and ponds. In 1909 there was a large steel plant
                        there employing 10,000 men and, in 1920, the city had a population of 55,000.
               
                  28 John E. Commons, Races and Immigrants in America
                        (1920 Edition), p. 108.
               
                  29 There is a differentiation made here between those who come to join
                        friends and those who are assisted by friends. Out of the total number of Germans, 131,572,
                        coming to the 
                            United States
                         in the years 1908 and 1909, 123,335 or 93.7% said they came to join
                        friends. Of the old immigration 89.4% and of the new immigration 97.0%
                        made similar reply. U. S. Senate Doc., No. 748, 61 Cong., 8 Sess., pp. 59-60.
                        That there is much chance for discrepancy here is evident. It is estimated that at least
                        one-third of the total number of immigrants are assisted by friends. Annual Report of the
                        Commissioner-General of Immigration, (1909), p. 10.
               
                  30 William H. Dawson, The German Empire, II, p. 458.
                        "Numerically, the German is the most important race in agriculture, constituting in
                        1900 nearly 8/8 of the total number of males of foreign origin on farms". U. S. Senate Doc., No. 633, 61 Cong. 2 Sess., Vol. I, p. 3.
               
                  31 William H. Dawson, Evolution of Modern 
                                Germany
                            
                  , pp. 237-8; J. Ellis Barker, Modern 
                                Germany
                            . Ch. XXIV. This came chiefly after 1890.
               
                  32
                        U. S. Census Reports, 1870 and 1000.
            
            
            
               
                  
                            
                                Switzerland
                            
                        
                  4,287
                  3,472
               
               
                  British America
                  4,765
                  5,934
               
               
                   
                   
                  (Can.-Fr. 948)
               
               
                  Sweden
                  2,180
                  4,673
               
               
                  Norway
                  123
                  384
               
               
                  Holland
                  873
                  1,678
               
               
                  
                            
                                Denmark
                            
                        
                  —
                  783
               
               
                  
                            
                                Belgium
                            
                        
                  462
                  —
               
               
                  Bohemia
                  141
                  526
               
               
                  Russia
                  61
                  1,215
               
               
                  
                            
                                Poland
                            
                        
                  523
                  6,067
               
               
                  
                            
                                Italy
                            
                        
                  54
                  1,327
               
               
                  
                            
                                Austria
                            
                        
                  443
                  2,089
               
            
            From this table we see that Germans numbered more than half of the foreign-born in Indiana both in
                    1870 and in 1900.33 Although the increases in 1900 over 1870 are mostly among
                    the southern and eastern Europeans, the immigrants from northern and northwestern Europe and the
                    British Isles still distinctly preponderated in 1900. This was yet true in 1920.
            That we may see the relation of these statistics to the number of Roman Catholics in Indiana let us
                    take the 78,060 Germans in the state in 1870 and distribute them according to the German state or
                    place of birth in 
                        Germany
                    .34 The results are as follows:35
            
            
               
                  German States
                  Number
               
               
                  Prussia
                  29,076
               
               
                  Wûrtemberg
                  8,872
               
               
                  Hesse (n)
                  6,768
               
               
                  
                            
                                Hanover
                            
                        
                  3,713
               
               
                  Mecklenburg
                  2,454
               
               
                  Saxony
                  1,472
               
               
                  Nassau
                  707
               
               
                  Oldenburg
                  664
               
               
                  Hamburg
                  465
               
               
                  Brunswick
                  208
               
               
                  Bavaria
                  11,500
               
               
                  Baden
                  8,154
               
            
            
               
                  33 In 1880, there were 80,756 Germans out of a total foreign-born
                        population in Indiana of 144,178 and 84,900 out of 146,205 in 1890.
               
                  34 It is believed that 1870 is typical of the succeeding census years
                        although the statistics for the separate German states are not given for 1890 and 1900. The bulk
                        of the foreign-born population or at least the foreign element was in Indiana by that time. This
                        would be especially true for the Germans, of course.
               
                  35
                        Compendium of U. S. Census, 1870, pp. 394-5. The law of averages is used as a
                        determing principle.
            
            
            The Protestant Reformation had a rather uneven effect on Europe, but its most permanent and greatest
                    influence was in the northern and northwestern portions of the continent and in Great Britain.36 Of the German states listed above, the first ten are predominantly
                    Protestant. In the last two, Roman Catholics preponderate.37 Great Britain, 
                        Canada
                     (British Canadians), Sweden, Norway, Holland, and 
                        Denmark
                     are mostly Protestant.38 Thus it is clear that foreigners coming to
                    Indiana have been adherents of Protestantism for the most part. This is the explanation of the small
                    number of Roman Catholics in the State.
            A study of Roman Catholics in Indiana with the aid of maps reveals that, where we find Roman
                    Catholics, we find counties in which foreigners predominate. The converse does not hold true in many
                    instances. We do not find the counties with large foreign elements and manufacturing counties
                    corresponding in many cases. This gives further evidence to indicate that Indiana's
                    foreigners are largely farmers. The counties shown as manufacturing are by no means exclusively, and
                    in some cases not predominantly so, but a glance at the grain production and farm land value maps
                    will suffice to show that this is true.39
            
            Finally, another interesting thing about the Roman Catholic population in Indiana is the apparent
                    influence of the metropolitan centers of sister states. A metropolis is not only a distributing
                    center of economic goods but often of a peculiar culture as well. Moreover, it overflows on the
                    surrounding territory, fills up suburban areas, and overflows again. A study of foreign and Roman
                    Catholic population density maps conveys this truth. In the case of Indiana, her northwestern corner
                    is a part of Greater 
                        Chicago
                    . 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     spill over on the portions of the state in proximity to them. In 1900, 68.2 per cent,
                    of the population of 
                        Chicago
                    , 66.5 per cent. 
                  
                     36 William R. Sheperd, Historical Atlas, pp. 116,
                            120; Thomas M. Lindsay, The Reformation; Preserved Smith, The
                                Protestant Reformation. Lindsay gives an excellent map.
                  
                     37 For statistics relative to specific German states, see Schaff-Herzog, Encyelopedia of Religious Knowledge. There is variance among the
                            several states as to the degree of Protestantization; e.g., Prussia, including Hesse,
                            Nassau, Saxony, and 
                                Hanover
                            , had 62.69% of her population Protestant, while Baden had
                            60.6% of her population Catholic 1900 and 1905, respectively. Ibid, IX, p. 315; Ibid, I, p. 418.
                  
                     38 16,306 of the 32,068 listed as coming from Great Britain and 
                                Ireland
                             in 1900 were from 
                                Ireland
                            . The figures are not given separately for 1870.
                  
                     39 The Lutheran and German Evangelical churches are strong in these
                            rural counties and in some cases exceed the Roman Catholic strength.
               
                     of that of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and 57.8 per cent, of that of 
                        Louisville
                     showed affiliation with the Roman Catholic Church.40
            
            Thus we have seen that there is a very close relation between the number of foreigners and the number
                    of Roman Catholics in the 
                        United States
                     and especially in the State of Indiana. Indiana has few foreigners largely because she
                    has less to offer in the way of economic opportunity and partly because the influx began late.41
            
            Immigration is not such a justifiable cause for concern on account of the increasing proportion of
                    foreign-born to native stock as is the changed character of immigration.42 It is
                    complained that the new immigrants are more illiterate, unskilled, less likely to become
                    naturalized, have a lower standard of living and therefore do not become an integral part of our
                    economic and political life.43 Says a noted authority on immigration:
                    "These people have no history behind them which is of a nature to give encouragement. They
                    have none of the inherited instincts and tendencies which make it comparatively easy to deal with
                    the immigration of the earlier time. They are beaten men from beaten races, representing the worst
                    failures in the struggle for existence. Centuries are against them as centuries were on the side of
                    those who formerly came to us."44 At best, the cake of custom is only
                    softened or cracked and the influence that seeps in is small. There is danger in this, that the
                    fecundity of the low standard immigrant women results in the delivering of a "full
                    quiver" of their kind to cramp the natives of higher standards.45
            
            In comparison with other States of the Middle West, Indiana has been fairly free from this
                    deleterious influence of the "new immigrants." The State has almost
                    missed—with the 
                  
                     40 Of course, the nearness to a city market would influence the price
                            of farm land.
                  
                     41 The cheaper lands in the states farther west naturally attracted
                            them, their friends had less in Indiana to recommend to them in this respect, and the
                            industries had no need of or could not use them.
                  
                     42 The proportion of the total population of 
                                United States
                             which was foreign-born in 1920 was 13% as it was in 1860. Of course,
                            the foreign element including the children of foreign parentage is much larger.
                  
                     43 In the years, 1899-1909, the "old immigration"
                            numbered 1,983,618, out of which, 52,883, or 27%, were illiterate. The
                            "new immigration" (from southern and southeastern Europe) numbered
                            5,215,448, out of which 1,859,298, or 35.6%, were illiterate. U. S.
                                Senate Doc., No. 748, 61 Cong., 3 Sess., "Emigrant Conditions in
                            Europe", p. 30. It would be interesting by process of comparison to learn the
                            effect of this upon the political intelligence of the sections into which they have flowed
                            and concentrated.
                  
                     44 Francis Walker, "Restriction of Immigration", in
                                Discussions in Economies and Statistics, Vol. II, p. 447.
                  
                     45 Tables are given in "Occupations of First and Second
                            Generations of Immigrants in 
                                United States
                             and Fecundity of Immigrant Women", U. S. Senate
                            Doc., No. 282, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., pp. 808-811. Probably the point to be stressed is not
                            so much inferiority as superfluity.
               
                     exception of counties like Lake and 
                        Vermillion
                    —the pollution of the stream of political and social intelligence by their
                    thirty per cent, of illiteracy and their inexperience in democratic government, their different
                    culture and beliefs, their garliced meat and potato and bandanna handkerchief standard of living.
                    This is fortunate since the "stream" has been sufficiently contaminated by natives
                    who are not illiterate. Indiana, on the other hand, has missed the invigoration that comes from the
                    injection of new blood, the flow and cross-fertilization of ideas; the relief from the drabness of
                    inbreeding by the bright colors and tone qualities of Latin and Slavic cultures. The leaders of
                    thought in the State have likewise missed the impelling incentive to study those great social and
                    economic problems furnished by the complex urban life of the metropolitan centers in other States,
                    especially those metropolitan centers for which Indiana serves as a hinterland and which materially
                    help to determine present day Hoosier civilization.
         
         
         
            Hananiah Lincoln in Revolutionary and Pioneer History
            By Louis A. Warren
            Hananiah Lincoln has been the despair of genealogists who have tried to decide just where he belongs
                    in the Lincoln family tree. Two rôles have been assigned him, just recently, which call
                    for some documentary study of his activities. A group of his descendents who live close to the 
                        Kentucky
                    -
                        Tennessee
                     border line are under the impression that Hananiah Lincoln was the grandfather of the
                    President and that he should receive the honor and recognition which has been given to another.
                    Contrariwise to this patronizing theory an argument has been set forth in a recent magazine article
                    which would make Hananiah Lincoln largely responsible for depleting the funds in the treasury of the
                    pioneer Abraham Lincoln. The straitened circumstances of the widow, Bersheba Lincoln, and her five
                    orphan children are charged to Hananiah who is said to have borrowed all the surplus cash from her
                    husband and failed to repay him.
            The documents bearing upon this very interesting character do not support either one of these
                    theories, but show Hananiah's genial relationship to both the grandfather and father of
                    Abraham Lincoln, the President. Aside from the controversial features which invite this discussion,
                    Hananiah Lincoln's service in the Revolutionary War is of interest to his many descendents
                    who are now living in the state of Indiana.
            Much of the confusion about Lincoln history would be avoided if the contents of Abraham
                    Lincoln's correspondence and autobiographical sketches were more fully known. A letter to
                    one of his relatives states that he remembered, "a long time ago seeing Austin and Davis
                    Lincoln, said to be sons of Hanaiel or Hannanial Lincoln who was said to have been a cousin of my
                        grandfather."1 The relationship of Hananiah to the
                    President's grandfather Abraham is stated correctly, although there seems to have been some
                    difficulty in spelling the name. I have come upon these different spellings: Hannanighah, Hannaiel,
                    Hannanial, Hanniniah, Hannia, Anniah, Niah, and some others which could not be accurately
                    deciphered. The 
                  
                     1 A. Lincoln to Richard V. B. Lincoln, 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , April 6, 1860, in Ida M. Tarbell, The Life
                                of Abraham Lincoln (1924 edition), iv, 180-131.
               
                     right spelling is "Hananiah," as it so appears
                    in his own handwriting wherever he signs his name.2
            
            The first paternal ancestor of Hananiah Lincoln in America was Samuel Lincoln who arrived at
                            
                  Salem, Massachusetts
                in 1637. He was about fifteen years of age at this time
                    and within a year moved to Hingham where some of his relatives had already settled. The date of
                    Samuel's marriage and the surname of his wife Martha have not been discovered. His fourth
                    child Mordecai, was born June 14, 1657. Mordecai married Sarah Jones and they named their first
                    child, born April 24, 1685, Mordecai, Jr. Mary Robeson became the wife of Mordecai, Jr. and they had
                    four sons: John, Mordecai, Thomas and Abraham. It is at this point that the family lines of Abraham
                    Lincoln the President and Hananiah Lincoln separate. The President tracing his lineage through John,
                    and Hananiah through John's brother, Thomas.3
            
            The wife of the Thomas Lincoln just mentioned was Elizabeth Davis. It was the name Davis that the
                    President remembered as having been given to one of Hananiah's sons, evidently in honor of
                    Elizabeth Davis, his grand-mother. It was in the 
                        Boone
                     and Lincoln settlement at Exeter, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , that Hananiah Lincoln was born about the year 1756. The exact date is not known.
            There was much inter-marrying between the Boones and the Lincolns. Sarah, a sister of Thomas Lincoln
                    and John Lincoln already named, married William 
                        Boone
                     a cousin of Daniel 
                        Boone
                    . Squire 
                        Boone
                    , father of Daniel, was a close neighbor to the Lincolns. An Abraham Lincoln who married
                    an Anne 
                        Boone
                     has often been confused by historians as the grandfather of the President.4
            
            The military service of Hananiah Lincoln began in the year 1775 when he was made a sergeant in the
                    company of which George Nalis was Captain and which was attached to the regiment of Col. William
                    Thompson. On October 4, 1776, Hananiah was commissioned First Lieutenant in Col. William
                    Cooke's Twelfth 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Regiment. An appointment to a captaincy came to him on May 20, 1777, and he served in
                    that capacity until he resigned on October 20, 1777.5 At this time, tradition
                    says, he went to Daniel 
                        Boone
                    's settlement in 
                  
                     2 Durrett Mss. (University of 
                                Chicago
                            ).
                  
                     3 Waldo Lincoln, A History of the Lincoln Family, 5,
                            15, 48-53.
                  
                     4 J. Henry Lea and J. R. Hutchinson, The Ancestry of
                                Abraham Lincoln, 174-176.
                  
                     5 Waldo Lincoln, History of the Lincoln Family,
                        222.
               
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                    . 
                        Boone
                    's survey book contains three entries in the name of Hananiah Lincoln: one in
                    1782, another at an unknown date, and the third a survey made in 1785.9
            
            The first positive evidence we have discovered of Hananiah's presence in the 
                        Kentucky
                     country is a promisory note given in 
                        Jefferson County
                     on January 3, 1882, and witnessed by Henry Hall. The document which bears his signature
                    is as follows: "I promise to pay or cause to be paid unto Enos At-water on his order the
                    just and full sum of twenty pattons of deer skins well prest fit to ground on or before the first
                    day of August next it being for value received in witness my hand and seal."8
            
            On September 13, 1783, Hananiah entered 890 acres of land on the east side of Cartwright's
                    Creek, and on the following December 8, he entered a tract of land comprising 1000 acres of land on
                    the south side of Beech Fork, next to James Thompson's Land. Still another tract was
                    entered this same year on the Kentucky River.7
            
            The following two years, 1784 and 1785, Hananiah was evidently located in 
                        Jefferson County
                     for he served there as a Juryman.9 In the year 1785, we find a
                    record of his association with the pioneer Abraham Lincoln, grandfather of the President. He served
                    on May 7, of this year as a chain carrier for the surveyor who was marking the lines of his cousin
                    Abraham's Long Run farm in 
                        Jefferson County
                    .10 He was probably living at Hughes Station when this cousin,
                    Abraham Lincoln, was massacred by the Indians in the month of May, 1786. By July 25, 1786, Hananiah
                    had removed to 
                  Nelson County, Kentucky
               , where he entered a record of more land at the
                    county court house." A 
                        Jefferson County
                     Fee Book for 1787 carries this notation opposite the name of Hananiah Lincoln:
                    "No inhabitant, lives in 
                        Nelson County
                    ."
            There recently appeared in the 
                  
                            New York
                         Times a feature article which set forth the proposition that Hananiah Lincoln
                    was responsible for the "narrow circumstances," of the pioneer Lincoln's
                    family after his death in 1786. According to the author it was: "The drains made upon his
                    purse by his 
                  
                     6 Draper Mss. (University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            ).
                  
                     7 Durrett Mss. (University of 
                                Chicago
                            ).
                  
                     8
                            Possessioners Report Book, 
                                Nelson County
                             [Ky.] Court.
                  
                     9
                            Durrett Scrap Book (University of 
                                Chicago
                            ).
                  
                     10
                            Land Book B, 60, 
                                Jefferson County
                             [Ky.] Court.
                  
                     11
                            Order Book 1786-1788, 215, 
                                Nelson County
                             [Ky.] Court.
               
                     father's cousin [Hananiah] that laid its heavy burden
                    on Bersheba widow of the pioneer [Abraham] Lincoln, and limited still further the opportunities of
                    her children." One of these children was Thomas Lincoln, father of the President.12 Bersheba and her family, some weeks after the massacre of her husband, had
                    settled near the line that later divided 
                        Washington
                     from 
                        Nelson County
                    , and in the same community where Hananiah was living.
            The results of my researches made many years ago in the 
                        Kentucky
                     court houses do not support the theory, that Hananiah Lincoln failed to repay the
                    estate of Abraham, the money which he had borrowed from his cousin some three years before
                    Abraham's death. John 
                        Caldwell
                     as administrator of the pioneer Lincoln estate brought suit as early as March 10,1791
                    against Hananiah Lincoln for the collection of borrowed money. The case appears on the docket at
                    regular intervals, with the citation, "continued," until September 14, 1791 when
                    the bill of the plaintiffs was endorsed, "Award returned and judgment
                    accordingly." I would interpret this endorsement as a verdict for the plaintiff, and there
                    is every reason to believe that Hananiah abided by the finding of the court.13
            
            There is no evidence that has been called to my attention which would suggest anything but good will
                    existing between Hananiah Lincoln and the family of Bersheba Lincoln except the suit just outlined.
                    Hananiah may have refused to pay the obligation due the estate, to the administrator, John 
                        Caldwell
                    , because of lack of confidence in him. This fact is certain, that the following year on
                    July 12, 1792: "John 
                        Caldwell
                     the administrator of the estate of Abraham Lincoln, deceased, being requested by his
                    security to give counter security, refused, whereupon, on the motion of Mordecai Lincoln who made
                    oath according to law, the administrator of said estate is granted him on giving
                        security."14 At a later date when Mordecai as administrator was
                    bringing suit against the Reed heirs to recover some land, Hananiah appeared as a witness for the
                        estate.15
            
            On February 7, 1787, Hananiah Lincoln married Sarah Jane Jeffries, daughter of Moses Jeffries.16 Although Han- 
                  
                     12
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times, July 22, 1928.
                  
                     13
                            Order Book, 1791; 23, 47, 51, 85, 171, 
                                Nelson County
                             [Ky.] Court.
                  
                     14
                            Order Book, 1792; 199, 
                                Nelson County
                             [Ky.] Court.
                  
                     15 Lincoln vs. Reed, Bundle, June 1816, 
                                Nelson County
                             Circuit Court.
                  
                     16
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Nelson County
                             Court.
               
                     aniah was about thirty years old at this time, evidently, he had
                    not been married before. The first child, who was born on December 22, 1787, was named Moses for his
                    grandfather Jeffries. Hananiah immediately began to take an interest in the affairs of the county.
                    In the month of May, 1788, he served on a 
                        Nelson County
                     Jury." On September 10, of the same year, Moses Jeffries resigned as captain
                    of the militia in the first batallion of 
                        Nelson County
                     and Hananiah was recommended as his successor.18
            
            About the time that 
                        Kentucky
                     was set apart from 
                        Virginia
                     as a State of the Union, some citizens in 
                        Bardstown
                    , the county seat of 
                        Nelson County
                    , were interested in forming a settlement at a point called 
                        Hartford
                     on Rough Creek, now the county seat of 
                        Ohio County
                    . On April 30, 1792, Hananiah Lincoln purchased from Gabriel Maddison, for the sum of
                    three pounds, certain lots "fully complying with the terms proposed by Robert Baird for the
                    encouragement of the settling of the town of 
                        Hartford
                    ." This is the same Robert Baird for which Bairdstown, now called 
                        Bardstown
                    , was named."19
            
            Hananiah moved to 
                        Hartford
                     and bought from a man by the name of Welsh, "a lot sowed in grass adjoining
                    the one acre where he now lives." The purchase of this land from Welsh involved Lincoln in
                    litigation, with Welsh as the defendant. Not only did these men seek recourse in the courts but the
                    wife of Lincoln, the wife of Welsh, and Mrs. Hettie Inlow and her daughters Polly and Elinor, were
                    involved. The trouble over the disappearance of a piece of callico belonging to Mrs. Lincoln was the
                    cause of the disturbance. It appears that Mrs. Lincoln was having some sewing done and alleged that
                    some goods had been stolen. The court records do not show what disposition was made of the case, but
                    the fact that Lincoln later sued Welsh and wife for slander implies that some hard words had been
                    used about the missing callico.20
            
            Hananiah was not very well pleased with his investments at 
                        Hartford
                     as he only remained there about two years. On October 8, 1794, he sold two
                    "in" lots and two "out" lots in 
                        Hartford
                     which evidently closed his interests there.21
            
            
               
                  17
                        Order Book, 1788, 849, 
                            Nelson County
                         Court.
               
                  18
                        Order Book (b), 1788, 56, 
                            Nelson County
                         Court.
               
                  19
                        Deed Book 4, 476, 
                            Nelson County
                         Court.
               
                  20 Lincoln vs. Welsh, Equity Bundle 1, 
                            Hardin County
                         [Ky.] Circuit Court.
               
                  21
                        Deed Book A, 54, 
                            Hardin County
                         Court.
            
            
            His next move was to Elizabethtown, the county seat of 
                        Hardin County
                    . A road order for July 28, 1795, names him and three other citizens of Elizabethown on
                    a commission to view a road to Jacob VanMetre's mill.22 On October 27
                    of the same year, Hananiah was appointed to assist in appraising the estate of William Stewart who
                    lived near him.23 A commissioners' book filed in the archives of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society at 
                        Frankfort
                     allows us to learn the extent of Hananiah's land holdings at this time: 1000
                    acres on Licking River in 
                        Mason County
                    ; 1450 acres on Kentucky River in 
                        Bourbon County
                    ; 1000 acres on Beech Fork in 
                        Nelson County
                    ; 50 acres on Hickman Creek in 
                        Fayette County
                    ; and 500 acres in 
                        Hardin County
                    . This last tract was probably the one close to Elizabethtown on which he was then
                    living.
            Aside from his land Hananiah listed for taxation one horse, and eleven cattle. The following year he
                    entered the same amount of land and live stock on the commissioners' book, but, in 1797, he
                    had evidently disposed of most of his land as he named only one tract. A very interesting
                    observation with reference to the 1797 tax list for 
                        Hardin County
                     is the presence of Thomas Lincoln's name directly under that of
                    Hananiah's in a book where there is no effort to follow the alphabetical order.24 This is good evidence that Thomas Lincoln, father of the President, was
                    living with Hananiah at this time and probably accompanied him on his next migration which was to
                    occur the following year.
            About this time an act of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Legislature made available lands south of Green River, and Hananiah and Thomas Lincoln
                    decided to try their luck there. They settled on Marrowbone Creek, a branch of the
                        Cumberland River, at a point in 
                  Cumberland
                            County, Kentucky
               . On the first
                    page of the first order book of 
                        Cumberland County
                    , established in 1798, this entry appears: "Hananiah Lincoln produced a
                    commission from his Excellency James Garrard, Esq., appointing him Sheriff in and for the county
                    aforesaid," etc.
            In the month of May, 1801, Thomas Lincoln entered a tract of vacant land in 
                        Cumberland County
                     and apparently settled upon it to assure possession. A fee of four dollars and
                    forty-three cents is credited on the certificate of entry which is 
                  
                     22
                            Order Book A, 70, 
                                Hardin County
                             Court.
                  
                     23
                            Order Book A, 72, 
                                Hardin County
                             Court.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Kentucky
                             State Historical Society Archives, Tax Lists.
               
                     dated November 28, 1801. We are not to assume, however, that
                    Thomas was tied down to this piece of land and not at liberty to spend some time in the communities
                    where he had formerly lived. On August 16, 1801, his name appears on the marriage certificate of a
                    friend in 
                        Washington County
                     and during most of the year 1803 there is plenty of evidence that he was located in 
                        Hardin County
                    . Neither of these counties was more than seventy-five miles from 
                        Cumberland County
                     and each was connected therewith by pioneer roads. It also appears that Thomas Lincoln
                    served as a Constable in 
                        Cumberland County
                     on January 12, 1802, Jesse Gee and Moses Kirkpatrick joining with him in signing the
                    necessary bond.25 It is evident that Thomas soon disposed of his 
                        Cumberland County
                     land and, the purchase made by a Thomas Lincoln in the year 1815, is undoubtedly by
                    another person.
            The association of Thomas Lincoln, father of President Lincoln, with Hananiah Lincoln has caused some
                    confusion as to the relationship of these two men. Many of the descendants of Hananiah now believe
                    him to have been the grandfather of the President. This confusion is accentuated by the fact that
                    Hananiah did have a son Thomas, but this Thomas was not the father of Abraham Lincoln. The citizens
                    of 
                        Cumberland County
                     have recently put forth a claim that Abraham Lincoln was born there. No one who is
                    familiar with the history of Thomas Lincoln in 
                        Hardin County
                    , from the time he was married in 1806 until he left for Indiana in 1816, will give this
                    claim very serious consideration.26 The testimony of the President himself is
                    sufficient to quiet all these idle notions, as he not only states the place of his birth but also
                    gives the name of his grandfather.
            The Thomas Lincoln who entered 200 acres of land in 
                        Cumberland County
                     in 1815, was very likely the son of Hananiah, who was about twenty-five years old at
                    that time. He would have been too young, however, to serve as a constable as early as 1802. The fact
                    that there were two Thomas Lincolns in 
                        Cumberland County
                     for a period has added to the confusion. Another consideration which has helped to
                    nourish the tradition that Hananiah Lincoln was the grandfather of the President is the close
                    association of Thomas, the President's father, and the children of Hananiah, in the Indiana
                    country.
            
               
                  25
                        
                            Cumberland County
                         [Ky.] Court.
               
                  26 Louis A. Warren Lincoln's Parentage and
                        Childhood, 38-57, 109-123.
            
            
            We learn from the Cumberland. County records that on February 14, 1801, Hananiah Lincoln married Lucy
                    Wilson. There is no tradition among the descendants of Hananiah that he was married a second time,
                    but there seems to have been no other Hananiah of a marriageable age at this time. Hananiah was then
                    forty-five years old and the marriage of a widower of that age would have been reasonable to expect.
                    In fact we know very little about Hananiah Lincoln after this date. Serving as sheriff of 
                        Cumberland County
                     for some time he is said to have joined 
                        Boone
                     in his 
                        Missouri
                     expedition. Tradition affairms that he soon returned, however, and took up his
                    residence in what was then 
                        Jackson County
                    , now 
                  Clay County, Tennessee
               . This is just across the state line from the old
                    home in 
                  Cumberland County, Kentucky
               . Both he and his first wife are buried on the old farm and
                    the exact sites of the graves were known as late as 1860 but now seem to have been obscured.27
            
            Just how many children Hananiah and Sarah Jeffries Lincoln had is not known. We have positive
                    evidence of six and probably there were others. The old family Bible of Moses Lincoln has been
                    preserved. An inscription therein proves him to have been the first-born child of Hananiah and
                    Sarah. He was born December 22, 1787 and named for his Grandfather Jeffries. Thomas, Austin and
                    Davis, were other sons, probably born in this order. There were two daughters, Sarah and Lucy. The
                    last named was born April 27,1799. The fact that Hananiah married Lucy Wilson about two years later
                    would suggest that Hananiah's first wife died shortly after the birth of this child, who
                    was possibly named for the woman, a friend of the family, who became the second wife of Hananiah
                    later.
            It will be convenient to present these six children in three groups of two each. The two eldest sons,
                    Moses and Thomas, about the year 1816, went north to 
                        Ohio
                    . Thomas was married before the time of the migration, as his wife was a Gee, daughter
                    of Jesse Gee who had been a bondsman for Thomas Lincoln, father of the President, in the year 1802.
                    The fact that Thomas, the son of Hananiah, named one of his children Jesse G. Lincoln supports the
                    statement. Moses did not choose a wife until he reached 
                  Preble
                            County, Ohio
               , where the 
                  
                     27 Family records of Miss Genie Armstrong, Tompkinsville, Ky.
               
                     brothers settled. There he married on September 18, 1816,
                    Elizabeth Crawford, daughter of James and Martha Crawford who lived at Eaton, 
                        Ohio
                    . In 1813, this Moses Lincoln moved his family to 
                        Warren County
                    , Indiana, where thirty-five years later he died on September 19, 1866. His wife passed
                    away on the 24th of January of the same year. Tradition claims that Abraham Lincoln once visited the
                    family in 
                        Warren County
                    .
            The scope of this article will not permit following these family lines to their many descendants. The
                    known grandchildren of Hananiah, we shall attempt to name. The children of Moses are given in the
                    order of their birth: Sarah Jane, John Crawford, James Harvey, Marthy Ellen, William 
                        Washington
                    , David Shankland, Mary Ann, Lucinda Caroline, Elizabeth Ruth. The children of Thomas
                    Lincoln and his wife, who was a Gee, cannot be given in the order of their birth although the list
                    is said to be complete: Ananias, Jesse G., Moses, James, Thomas, John, Sarah, Elizabeth, Susie, and
                        Martha.28
            
            The two girls Sarah and Lucy settled in 
                        Kentucky
                    , although Sarah first lived for a time in Indiana and after the 
                        Kentucky
                     residence moved to 
                        Tennessee
                    . She married George Peterman and three children were born to them—Martha,
                    Malinda and Rebecca. Lucy married Jonathan Hills in 
                  Hardin
                        County, Kentucky
               , on October 4,
                    1817, and probably lived near Eliza-bethtown most of her life.29 I was
                    personally acquainted with one of her daughters, Mrs. Lucy Lasley, a genial old lady, now deceased.
                    The children of Lucy Lincoln Hills were: William Jeffries, Sarah, John, Margaret, Sena, James,
                    Charles, Elizabeth, Mary Priscilla, Malvina, Eliza Rebecca, Lucy Jane, and Martha.30
            
            Austin and Davis Lincoln are the two sons of Hananiah in which we are more especially interested,
                    because of their association with President Lincoln's family in Southern Indiana. The 
                        Boone
                     connections were probably responsible for the first Lincoln migrations to Indiana
                    Territory, some time before it became a State. Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , a dominant character in Indiana politics for many years in the early history of the
                    State, had taken up his residence there as early as 1809. It was he that undoubtedly influenced the
                    two sons of Hananiah to locate in the new country. Austin had entered his claim in the 
                  
                     28 Family records of Mrs. A. A. Brewer, 
                                Connersville
                            , Ind.: Mrs. E. V. Smith, 
                                Williamsport
                            , Ind.
                  
                     29
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Hardin County
                             [Ky.] Court.
                  
                     30 Family records of Miss Eliza Lasley, Elizabethtown, Ky.
               
                     land office at 
                        Vincennes
                     by December 16, 1816.31 More than a year before, however, in the
                    month of June, 1815, he had served on a 
                        Perry County
                     jury.32
            
            Very little is known about Austin Lincoln. In the 1820 census, he is entered as between the ages of
                    26 and 45 and his wife is listed as over 18 and under 26. They had two sons and a daughter at this
                    time, all three under ten years of age.33 I have been unable to learn the names
                    of either of his two sons. A Levisy Lincoln married a James Hargrave on June 21, 1828. This wedding
                    took place in 
                        Spencer County
                     and it is likely that this was the daughter of Austin Lincoln.34
                    Tradition says that Austin moved on either to 
                        Illinois
                     or 
                        Missouri
                    , and upon his death left a widow and two children. His wife's name is not
                    known.
            It was not until sometime between Thanksgiving and Christmas of 1816 that President
                    Lincoln's father and his family moved into Indiana. They located not more than twelve miles
                    from the Austin Lincoln property, and must pass it as they journeyed en route from 
                        Kentucky
                     to the new home site. It is my opinion that Austin Lincoln was largely responsible for
                    the coming of Thomas to Indiana and for his choice of the particular tract of land which he
                    occupied. It is not likely that Davis Lincoln reached the Indiana country until late in the year
                    1820, as his name does not appear on the 1820 census. He entered a tract of land, however, as early
                    as April, 1821.35 His sister Sarah came with him, and I am also of the opinion
                    that Elender Lincoln, who married Jesse Conner in 
                        Perry County
                     on June 26, 1821, was a sister of Sarah and Lucy Lincoln, although no proof of this
                    fact is attainable.36
            
            It is the family of Davis Lincoln which has become best known in Southern Indiana. Many of the
                    descendants still live there and at other points in the State. Davis was quite a prominent character
                    serving as a Justice of the peace as early as 1823.37 He was the owner of the
                    Lincoln Mill on Anderson Creek which brought him into contact with a great many people. On a trip to 
                        New Orleans
                     he contracted cholera 
                  
                     31
                            Record of Relinquishments, Indiana State House.
                  
                     32
                            Complete Records, 
                                Perry County
                             [Ind.] Court, book 1, June term, 1816.
                  
                     33
                            
                                United States
                             Census Returns, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     34
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Spencer County
                             [Ind.] Court.
                  
                     35
                            Land Entry Book, Indiana State House.
                  
                     36
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Spencer County
                             [Ind.] Court.
                  
                     37
                            Deed Book A, 
                                Spencer County
                             Court, 100.
               
                     and is said to have died at Natchez. The date of his death is
                    not known but the fact that his wife Abigail was interested in a land transaction in 1826 would
                    imply that his death had antedated that year.38 The widow later married Thomas
                    Jones and by him had two children, James and Caroline.
            It was the children of Davis Lincoln with whom Abraham Lincoln became more intimately acquainted.
                    There were three boys and five girls. Hananiah, Austin, Robert J., Ellen, Nancy, Sarah, Martha, and
                    Lucy. All of these children must have been known to Abraham Lincoln. On days when he visited the
                    Lincoln mill he must have enjoyed the companionship of these distant cousins. Hananiah married
                    Adelia Sanders on November 26, 1836. They had five sons and three daughters.39
                    Hananiah was usually called "Niah".40 He died sometime before
                    1850 and is buried in the old Avery Cemetery.
            Austin Lincoln married Catherine McGuffey, December 23, 1837.41 He operated the
                    Lincoln Mill on Anderson Creek, where he met his death. He is buried near 
                        Troy
                    . Robert J. Lincoln married Christina Williams, November 26,1836.42
                    His wife joined him in signing a deed to a piece of property as late as April 6, 1844, but the date
                    of his decease is not known to me.43
            
            The names of the three oldest girls, Elender or Ellen, Nancy, and Sarah are all entered on the
                    marriage registers of Perry or 
                        Spencer County
                    . Elender or Ellen Lincoln married a Mr. McGuffey on December 19, 1830. The marriage
                    register gives his name as Macijah, but the family tradition says it was Jesse.44 Nancy, according to the marriage returns married Josiah Dunn on February 15, 1827, but he
                    is called Cyrus by descendants of the family.45 Sarah became the husband of
                    Francis Armstrong on November 18, 1839.46 They moved to 
                        Kentucky
                     and later to 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            It seems that nearly every Lincoln story, from the time the 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 
                                Spencer County
                             Court, 176.
                  
                     39 Family records of E. S. Lincoln, Gary, Ind.
                  
                     40 Family records of C. T. Bager, Grandview, Ind.
                  
                     41
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Perry County
                             [Ind.] Court.
                  
                     42
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Spencer County
                             [Ind.] Court.
                  
                     43
                            Deed Book 9, 
                                Spencer County
                             Court, 85.
                  
                     44
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Ferry County
                             [Ind.] Court. Possibly his name was Macijah Jesse.
                  
                  
                     45
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Spencer County
                             [Ind.] Court. Josiah may easily, however, have given rise to
                            "Sy" from which "Cyrus" could have developed.
                  
                     46
                            Marriage Register, 
                                Perry County
                             [Ind.] Court.
               
                     grandfather of the President was massacred by the Indians, until
                    the President himself died by the hand of an assassin, includes a tragedy. This story of the
                    Hananiah Lincoln family is no exception. The two youngest daughters, Armarintha or Martha, and Lucy,
                    have evidently been confused by members of the Hananiah Lincoln family as they have set down certain
                    traditions about these two girls, so we are not able to learn just which one was held indirectly
                    responsible for the reputed haunting of the old Lincoln mill. It appears to have been Armarintha.
                    Some members of the family claim that Lucy was not married in 1847 when she moved to 
                        Kentucky
                    , but a 
                        Warrick County
                     Marriage record reveals that a Lucinda Lincoln married John 
                        Montgomery
                     on August 25, 1835,47 and, in 1840, a Lucy Mills who had
                    undoubtedly been a Lucy Lincoln signed her name to a deed.48 There is a
                    possibility that Lucy Lincoln may have been married twice before 1847.
            Armarintha was in love with a young man by the name of Wilson. His attentions were not looked upon
                    with pleasure by Austin Lincoln, the brother with whom the girl was then living. Wilson continued to
                    keep company with her, however. One day he visited the Lincoln Mill with the intention of making a
                    further appeal for the hand of Armarintha, to whom he had become engaged, when a fierce struggle
                    occurred between Austin Lincoln and his sister's suitor. That evening the dead body of
                    Austin Lincoln was found on the stairs leading to the second story of the mill. Wilson fled the
                    country taking a boat down the 
                        Ohio
                     and Armarintha is said to have disappeared at some later date. The presumption is that
                    she met Wilson and that they were married. Of one fact we are certain that on December 5, 1840,
                    Armarintha was still single as she was a party to a sale of some land in 
                        Spencer county
                     which she had evidently inherited.49
            
            It is to be hoped that some member of the Hananiah Lincoln family will become interested in following
                    the descendants of this revolutionary soldier beyond the point where it has been found necessary to
                    conclude this narrative. A complete genealogy of this family would make a valuable addition to
                    Lincolniana.
            
               
                  47
                        Marriage Register, 
                            Warrick County
                         [Ind.] Court.
               
                  48
                        Deed Book 5, 
                            Spencer County
                         [Ind.] Court, 398.
               
                        49
                        Ibid.
                    
            
         
         
         
            The Recognition of George Rogers Clark
            By Louise Phelps Kellogg
            Clark's military successes were wrought out oil so distant a stage and his contemporaries
                    were so engrossed with affairs on the Atlantic coast, that, during the Revolutionary War years,
                    little was known of his achievements. 
                        Virginia
                     statesmen, especially Jefferson, showed a deep interest in Clark's activities,
                    and Jefferson while governor reported to 
                        Washington
                     Clark's capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     and the arrival at 
                        Williamsburg
                     of the British prisoners.1
                    
                        Washington
                     likewise heard from Colonel Daniel Brodhead, stationed at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     of Clark's exploits; but as Brodhead was bitterly jealous of Clark he
                    doubtless belittled their effect.2
            
            Clark's own accounts of his campaigns are as follows: While at 
                        Vincennes
                     he wrote an official report to the governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , which was captured by the enemy; upon learning this he wrote a second letter, April
                    29, 1779, which was received by Jefferson, then governor of the State.3 In the
                    autumn of 1779, Clark had leisure to write a full account of his 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     campaigns for Colonel George Mason, a friend and former neighbor whose good opinion he
                    highly prized. This was sent off November 19, 1779, and as a contemporary account by the actor in
                    the events is a source of importance.4 Ten years later Clark was importuned by
                    several 
                        Virginia
                     friends to prepare an extended account of his campaigns. This he consented to do and
                    began to collect letters and documents for this purpose. At this time he tried to recover the letter
                    to Mason but without success. He did, however, find and copy many of the original letters and
                    diaries of the campaign, and made every effort to have this account accurate. It begins with the
                    first settlement of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1773-74, and ends with the defeat of Col. David Rogers on the 
                        Ohio
                     in October, 1779. Evidently, Clark intended to continue writ- 
                  
                     1 Paul L. Ford (ed.) Writing of Thomas Jefferson
                            (N.Y. 1892-88), ii. 240-41.
                  
                     2 Calendar of 
                                Washington
                             Papers, Library of Congress, 1086; Wis. Hist. Colls., xxiii,
                            295, 298, 308, 336, 359.
                  
                     3 Both these accounts are published in Ill. Hist.
                            Colls., iii, 164-174.
                  
                     4 The Mason letter was recovered from oblivion by the inquiries in
                            1847 of Dr. Lyman C. Draper. The Mason descendants presented it to the 
                                Kentucky
                             Historical Society, which was soon thereafter dissolved and the Mason letter
                            came into possession of Judge Henry Pirtle, its late president. He printed it in 1869 as The 
                                    Illinois
                                 Campaign (Ohio Valley Historical Series, No. 8).
                            It has several times since been reprinted; see W. H. English, Cinquest of the
                                Northwest (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897), i, 411; Ill. Hist. Colls., viii, 114-154.
               
                     ing further on this document, for it was never released and
                    remained among his family papers. It had been proposed that James 
                        Madison
                     should edit it for publication; but it would seem that he never saw it. This account is
                    now called the Clark "Memoir". Controversy has raged over it, and it has
                    alternately been described as a source of the first importance and as a description of
                    "half-imaginary feats of childish cunning he related in his old age."5 It has been printed several times. Large extracts were made from it by an
                    Indiana historian, John B. Dillon.6 It was first completely printed by another
                    Indianan, W. H. English.7 It was reproduced as nearily as possible as it was
                    written, spelling and punctuation as in the original, in the printed George Rogers
                        Clark Papers.
               8 Recently it has been modernized in form and published by
                    a 
                        Michigan
                     historian.9
            
            The first carefully written and well documented history of 
                        Kentucky
                     was that of Humphrey Marshall, published in 1812. So far as we can ascertain, this
                    history contains the first printed reference to Clark's campaigns. Marshall called him
                    "a great commander".10 Since General Clark was still living in
                    dependence and obscurity and since he and his family belonged to a different political party from
                    Marshall, this was a notable tribute. One other history published during Clark's lifetime
                    contains a brief account of his conquests. That was the continuation of Burk's History of 
                            Virginia
                        
               , the fourth volume of which was prepared by Skelton Jones and Louis H.
                    Girardin and dedicated to Thomas Jefferson. The account in this volume of the capture of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     was clearly inspired by Jefferson as most of it is taken from Clark's letter
                    to him, mentioned above.11
            
            After Clark's death no really significant attempt at a biography or a history of his
                    achievements appeared for several years. The task was finally attempted by Mann 
                        Butler
                    , a Marylander who came to 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1806 and who was both a teacher and editor there during the intervening years. In
                        
                  
                     5 See full discussion of the "Memoir" in James A.
                            Hall, Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                Chicago
                            , 1928), 474-494. Prof. James restores the "Memoir" to its
                            rightful place as an historical source.
                  
                     6 John B. Dillon, A History of Indiana from its earliest
                                Exploration by Europeans to the Close of the Territorial Government in 1816 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1849), 127ff.
                  
                     7
                            Conquest of the North West, i, 456.
                  
                     8
                            Ill. Hist. Colls., viii, 208-392.
                  
                     9 M. M. Quaife, The Conquest of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927).
                  
                     10 Marshall, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (
                                Frankfort
                            , 1812), 97.
                  
                     11 John Burk, History of 
                                    Virginia
                                 from its first Settlement to the present day (Petersburg, Va.
                            1804-1818), iv.
               
                     1814, he was editor of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier, and by his large acquaintance with 
                        Kentucky
                     pioners obtained much valuable historical material. His History of the
                        Commonwealth of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               , published at 
                        Louisville
                     in 1834 is dedicated to General William Clark and has for its frontispiece a likeness
                    of George Rogers Clark.
            In 1839, Judge John Law, an Indiana lawyer who had been engaged in prosecuting before Congress the
                    claims of Colonel Francis Vigo for his assistance to Clark, delivered the 
                        Washington
                    's Birthday address before the 
                        Vincennes
                     Historical and Antiquarian Society. This address, which contained a laudation of Clark
                    and his achievements, was published the same year at 
                        Louisville
                    .12 Dillon's History of Indiana, already
                    noted, followed in 1843.13 The people of the West were beginning to awake to the
                    merits and importance of their Revolutionary hero.
            About this time, Lyman C. Draper of 
                        Baltimore
                     became interested in Clark's life and in 1847 began the preparation of a Life and Times of George Rogers Clark. Draper never finished or published his
                    work. The only printed account from his pen is the biographical sketch in Appleton, Cyclopedia of American Biography (N.Y. 1886).14 Draper, moreover, was
                    in close touch with historians and writers on western history. In 1846, James H. Perkins edited the
                        Annals of the West published by J. Albach & Company, 
                        Cincinnati
                    . In this the author gives an account of Clark's conquests, partly copied from
                    Dillon's History of Indiana. A second edition was prepared by Rev. John
                    Mason Peck and published at 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1850. Peck's account is much more correct than that of Perkins, and shows
                    the influence of Draper, with whom he had been in constant correspondence since 1842.15
            
            These, however, were all western writers, their publishers were in the West and their books were read
                    almost wholly by westerners. One of the first if not the first recognition of Clark as a national
                    figure was in the National Portrait Gallery of Distinguished Americans, published
                    in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 
                  
                     12 Judge Law's address was later enlarged and published as
                                The Colonial History of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Vincennes
                            , 1858).
                  
                     13 See ante, note 6.
                  
                     14 The present writer proposes to present a paper on Draper's
                            acquisition of the Clark manuscripts, now in the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , at the spring meeting of the Mississippi Valley
                            Historical Association to he held at 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                  
                     15 Draper Mss. 129.
               
                     1839, edited by James Hall.16 Judge Hall, as
                    he was called, was a member of a literary family of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , who had moved West. He had before this published Sketches of the History,
                        Life and Manners of the West (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1835), in which he gave an account of Clark's campaigns. The Portrait Gallery, however, appealed to a wider audience and placed Clark among
                    distinguished Americans. None the less Hall was a western writer, and Clark was not yet recognized
                    by American historians as a factor in the Revolution.
            The first prominent historian of the American Revolution to place Clark among the chief actors was
                    Benson J. Lossing of Poughkeepsie', 
                        New York
                    , a friend and co-laborer with Draper. In 1847, Lossing published a History
                        of the 
                            United States
                        
               , in which he made no mention of Clark, since he had not at that time come into
                    contact with Draper. In 1852, however, Lossing began a serial publication of a pictorial history of
                    the Revolution, which was issued in 1855 in two volumes as the Pictorial Field Book of
                        the Revolution. Lossing, who began his career as an engraver, had visited in person most of
                    the places he described in this work. In volume two he included a considerable account of Clark and
                    the region where his conquests were made. After this Clark's name began to appear in
                    magazine articles and in general works. Harper's Magazine, in 1860-61,
                    carried two long articles on Clark's life.17 In 1873, James A.
                    Garfield, then an 
                        Ohio
                     congressman, made an address on the Northwest before the Western Reserve Historical
                        Society18 in which he said: "The cession of the Northwest Territory
                    was due to the foresight, courage and endurance of one man, who never received from his country any
                    adequate recognition for his great service. That man was George Rogers Clark."
            Recognition was at last on its way. In 1874, George Bancroft finished his monumental History of the 
                            United States
                        . In his last volume he wrote of Clark's campaigns and said of him and
                    his men: "The valor of the actors, their fidelity to one another, the seeming feebleness of
                    their means and the great result of their hardihood remains ever memorable in the history of the
                        world."19
            
            
               
                  16 Clark's portrait and a twelve-page sketch of his life appear
                        in volume iv of this work; the name is spelled Clarke.
               
                  17 The author was Robert F. Coleman of 
                            Louisville
                        , Ky.
               
                  18 Published as Tract No. 20, Vol. i. Reprinted in Old South
                            Leaflets, ii. No. 42.
               
                  19 George Bancroft, History of the 
                                United States
                             from the Discovery of the American Continent (1st edition, 
                            Boston
                        , 1859-74), x, 193.
            
            
            A century had passed since Clark had joined Lord Dunmore on his expedition which was to open the West
                    to settlement and give a temporary relief from Indian depredations. Clark had now taken his place
                    among the generals of the Revolution; he was recognized as having been chief actor on the western
                    scene. He had been called "The Hannibal of the West," the "Western 
                        Washington
                    ," inappropriate but flattering appelations. It remained to make him better
                    known to the world of readers of general history. This was accomplished in some degree by Theodore
                    Roosevelt in his Winning of the West, the first two volumes of which appeared in
                    1889. It was unfortunate that Roosevelt did not discover the Draper Manuscript collection (then in
                    Draper's private library) while writing his earlier volumes. Before he brought out volumes
                    three and four he had visited 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , and, in a stay of several weeks, had
                    familiarized himself with a part of its contents. Because of this lack of knowledge and his own
                    temper-mental reactions, Roosevelt "alternately praises and belittles Clark."20 He knew the "Memoir" only in Dillon's reproduction
                    and pronounced it the work of a useless old man. At one moment he called Clark "the
                    greatest of the first generation of Trans-Allegheny pióneers," then spoke of his
                    conquests as of little importance.21 Nevertheless his work had a wide reading
                    and made Clark's name known to a generation of history readers in the late nineteenth
                    century. About the same time, there appeared the article on "The West in the
                    Revolution," by W. F. Poole in Justin Winsor, Narrative and Critical History
                        of America.
               22 This carried an extended account both of Clark and his
                    conquests. The popularity of Clark at this period is evidenced by the appearance of a portion of his
                    "Memoir" in the Old South Leaflets.23 John Fiske in his American Revolution
               24 said: "The military enterprise
                    of Clark was crowned by the diplomacy of Jay."
            Two Indiana historians about this period added largely to Clark's fame. Jacob Piatt Dunn,
                    secretary of the Indiana Historical Society in 1886, and state librarian, 1889-93, was invited to
                    write the history of his state for the American Common- 
                  
                     20 Mss. note by Draper on his edition of Roosevelt's book.
                  
                     21 Compare Roosevelt, Winning of the West, (
                                New York
                            , 1889), i, 188, 206, 243.
                  
                     22 Volume vi (
                                New York
                            , 1888).
                  
                     23 Volume ii, No. 43. This publication was taken from
                            Dillon's copy, not from the original manuscript.
                  
                     24 (
                                Boston
                            , 1891).
               
                     wealth Series.25 His fourth chapter called
                    "The Hannibal of the West," presents Clark's later life and the
                    criticisms made upon him in the most favorable light. Eight years later William Hayden English,
                    president of the Indiana Historical Society, published his monumental work, The
                        Conquest of the Country Northwest of the River 
                            Ohio
                        
                1778-1783 and Life of General George Rogers Clark, which has
                    remained a standard reference work on Clark and his soldiers to the present.26
            
            Meanwhile Draper had died and bequeathed his collection to the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Frederick Jackson Turner had begun his studies in western history and had established
                    the first course on the "History of the West" in any American university.27 Reuben G. Thwaites, Draper's successor as secretary of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society, lectured at Chautauqua, 
                        New York
                    , on July 14,1898, on "George Rogers Clark, the Western Hero of the
                    Revolution." Five years later, revised and enlarged, this essay gave its name to a
                    collection, How George Rogers Clark Won the Northwest, and other Essays in Western
                        History.28
            
            
               
                        Illinois
                     awoke to a renewed consciousness of its historical treasures under the tutelage of
                    Professor Clarence W. Alvord of its state university. In 1905, Alvord visited the county towns near
                    the old American Bottom, and discovered the great mass of French documents preserved there, which as
                    soon as practicable he brought out and edited. The first volume, called The Cahokia
                        Records,29 was prefaced by an exhaustive
                    "Introduction" which gave the first scientific background for a study of French 
                        Illinois
                     and the conditions that made possible Clark's conquests. The 
                            Kaskaskia
                         Records
               30 appeared two years later under the same skillful
                    editorship. Alvord also arranged for a documentary series of eighteenth century historical material
                    and the commission he organized planned the issuance of the George Rogers Clark
                    Papers under the editorship of James A. James of Northwestern University.31
                    This volume which came out in 1912 dealt with Clark's career from 
                  
                     25 Dunn, Indiana (
                                Boston
                            , 1888).
                  
                     26 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1896), 2 vols.
                  
                     27 Turner, in 1888, lectured on the "Ordinance of
                            1787" and gave Clark credit for the military occupation of the Northwest Territory
                            finally won by the diplomatic battle. Draper Mss., 1K.
                  
                     28 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903).
                  
                     29
                            
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, 
                                Virginia
                             Series, i (
                                Springfield
                            , 1907).
                  
                     30
                            
                                Virginia
                             Series, ii.
                  
                     31 See Solon J. Buck, "Clarence W. Alvord,
                            Historian", in 
                        Mississippi Valley Historial
                                Review, xv, 309-320.
               
                     1771 to 1781.32 The second volume of the George Rogers Clark Papers, 1781 to 1784, appeared in 1926.33
            
            The story of the recognition of Clark's services by historians during the century and a half
                    since his capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     has been briefly told. The first complete biography of him was published in 1926, the
                    work of Temple Bodley, a descendant of the Clark family.34 Professor
                    James' important and scholarly life was published last year.35 It is
                    based not only upon the two volumes of papers he had already edited, but upon extensive research and
                    material in both foreign and American archives. This definite account and scholarly estimate of
                    Clark's life and services comes fittingly at the time of the Clark Sesquicentennial to
                    furnish a reference book not only for Clark's life, but for the Revolution in the West.
                    Other lives of Clark are in preparation, and the flood of periodical literature now appearing shows
                    that Clark has at last obtained not only historical but popular recognition for his share in making
                    the Old Northwest a part of the American nation.
            
               
                  32
                        
                            Virginia
                         Series, iii.
               
                  33
                        
                            Virginia
                         Series, iv, copyright in 1926.
               
                  34
                        George Rogers Clark: his Life and Public Services (
                            Boston
                         and 
                            New York
                        , 1926).
               
                  35 See infra, for a review of this volume.
            
         
         
         
            Thomas Francis Moran An Appreciation
            
            By Stanley Coulter
            In the recent passing of Dr. Thomas Francis Moran, education and scholarship suffered an almost
                    irreparable loss. A profound scholar, a clear thinker, an inspiring teacher, he achieved eminence in
                    these fields, while as a leader in civic and philanthropic movements he represented the highest type
                    of citizenship.
            This article is an attempt to reveal, in some measure at least, the personality of this rare man,
                    something of the charm and strength that made him facile princeps in every field
                    he entered.
            A few facts, however, are needed to serve as a background for this appreciation. Born at
                            
                  Columbia, Michigan
               , January 9, 1866, Mr. Moran received his bachelor's
                    degree from the University of 
                        Michigan
                     in 1887, and that of Doctor of Philosophy from Johns Hopkins University in 1895. In
                    1887, he became Superintendent of Schools at Elk River, 
                        Minnesota
                    , where he remained until 1892. Then he entered upon his candidacy for the doctorate. In
                    1895, he accepted the position of Professor of History and Head of the Department of History and
                    Economics at Purdue University, remaining in that position until his sudden and untimely death in
                    1928.
            My associations with Dr. Moran were those of a colleague in the University faculty and were intimate
                    from the day of his appearance upon the campus. We both spoke the same language and had much the
                    same educational ideals. Because of this affectionate intimacy, continuing uninterruptedly for more
                    than three decades, I feel a certain restraint in attempting to characterize this radiant and
                    dynamic personality. I leave to historians the evaluation of his work, only attempting here to
                    interpret the man.
            The first impression made upon any one meeting Dr. Moran would be that here was a man of exceptional
                    physical and intellectual alertness and vigor. His every movement and utterance confirmed this
                    impression and gave to him an immediate prominence in any assemblage. Added to this, there seemed to
                    radiate from him an atmosphere of cheerfulness, of a joyous, 
                    even jocund, outlook upon life, a confidence in himself and in the future.
            But would these qualities retain their fineness in the dull routine of the class room, for after all
                    it was in the class room that he was to justify himself. Those of us who were older in the service
                    eagerly watched this ardent young man as with an almost debonair courage he entered upon his life
                    work. From his very first appearance before a class, he held the confidence and the constantly
                    growing affection of all who came under his teaching. He was something different from the student
                    conception of a professor. He was so friendly, so full of humor, so versatile, so entirely and
                    charmingly human, that he drew them to himself irresistibly.
            In his teaching he was clear, his statements were terse and incisive, his questions searching and
                    comprehensive. Although he possessed the charm that attracted, he was a close and exacting teacher,
                    demanding honest work and giving his scholarship ratings because of actual achievement and not
                    because of endeavor. No student ever selected a course under Dr. Moran as a "snap
                    course." He daily demonstrated that it was possible to make his courses fascinatingly
                    interesting, and yet rigidly to exact a complete fulfillment of the requirements.
            His lectures and class room instruction were enriched and illuminated by his versatility, his
                    constant habit of drawing illustrative material from widely variant sources. His memory was
                    marvelous, and fact and source, exact quotation and reference abounded in every lecture. At times a
                    student would doubt whether such versatility and exactness could be combined in one mind and would
                    check back references and allusions only to find that this great teacher was as exact as he was
                    versatile.
            Thus a course in history which promised to be a dry record of some past age or civilization became a
                    vibrantly living thing; a cross section of the life and art and literature and government of a past
                    age it is true, and yet vitally and intimately connected with the present. His was the high art of
                    breathing upon the dry bones of history and restoring them to life.
            In speech he was eloquent and compellingly magnetic, and, whether he lectured or taught, there were
                    always those flashes of wit and humor that made his as popular upon the public platform as in the
                    class room.
            
            Dr. Moran was one of the greatest teachers I ever knew. He was not merely a drill sergeant in the
                    technique of facts and dates, but a teacher who in an exceptional way stirred his pupils to creative
                    thought and through this to higher ideals of life. His was the power of teaching in such a way as to
                    develop character. Possibly this was due, in part, to the fact that in Dr. Moran the pedagogue never
                    hid the man.
            His influence upon student life was not confined to his class room and seminar.
                    There was no phase of student activity which did not profoundly interest him. So he studied the
                    extra-curricular activities, and, while sympathetic to all, to some few he devoted both time and
                    thought. A notable instance of this is found in his years as chairman of the Faculty Committee on
                    Athletics, and his equal number of years of membership in the Big Ten Conference as the
                    representative of Purdue University. There is no need to speak of his work, nor yet of his
                    commanding influence in intercollegiate athletics, for both are a part of the history of athletics
                    in the universities of the central-west. Clear headed, finely poised, unswervingly adhering to the
                    rules as laid down by the conference, sternly just in the infliction of penalties in cases of their
                    infraction, he taught almost as effectively as chairman of the athletic committee as in his class
                    room in history. Here he taught, honor, truth, fair play, clean sportsmanship, and the friendliness
                    of honest competition. Other students than those of Purdue University have profited by his teaching
                    in this field.
            It mattered little what university duty might be assigned him it was done promptly, efficiently,
                    brilliantly. Naturally this vitality and effectiveness could not find full scope within the
                    university walls, and so he became a "Community Servant." The demands of community
                    and State are both numerous and varied, and it is amazing to find to how many of these Dr. Moran
                    responded with loyal service and superb effectiveness. He was a member of the American Historical
                    Association; of the American Political Science Association; of the Indiana Historical Commission
                    (1921-25); of the Education Committee the National Security League; Associate Director of the
                    Speaking Division of the Commission on Public Information during the World War. He also lectured at
                    other Universities; at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     in 1914; and at Lafay-  ette College in 1915, as
                    Fred Morgan Kirby Lecturer on Civil Rights. These are but a few of his widely ranging activities.
            His contributions to his own community were manifold and varied. I think Dr. Moran would have given
                    first place to his service as Senior Warden and Lay Reader of St. John's Episcopal church,
                    for he was deeply and devoutly religious. He was President of the Art Association; member and past
                    President of the Rotary, Town and Gown, and Parlor Clubs; a member of both the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        West Lafayette
                     Country Clubs, and, strangely enough for a College professor, President of a Bank. A
                    full life he lived, yet with time enough to write many books, to give countless addresses, and to
                    enjoy as few do his own home.
            This summary is given largely to explain, in part, the reason he was a great teacher. These
                    multiplied contacts with movements and people enriched his life. They broadened and deepened his
                    mind, which with its keen insights, its fair judgments, its clarities of thought, was reflected in
                    his every contact with students. Toward the close of his teaching years, he took charge of a
                    freshman course in history, as a part of an orientation program. The class was held in the building
                    which I then controlled. After a lecture, the four hundred freshmen would stream past my office
                    door, all talking, and always talking of the interest and helpfulness of the course. Few heads of
                    departments would have undertaken such a course, but Dr. Moran did and carried it supremely well.
                    His orientation lectures in history were the most brilliantly effective teaching I ever witnessed.
            Dr. J. A. Estey, his associate, says: 
                        Dr. Moran gave his time and energies without stint to every public spirited movement. He was
                            one of those men upon whom the whole community implicitly relies when public affairs of note
                            have to be carried on. A man of sincere religious beliefs, a devout and loyal member of his
                            church, cultured, discriminative in his tastes and scholarly in his judgments, Dr. Moran
                            represented the highest type of American citizenship. His influence upon generations of
                            students cannot be measured in mere class room instruction, for to his mastery of his
                            subject he also brought a personal enthusiasm, an engaging sense of humor and an ability to
                            stimulate the intellectual energies of his hearers, that raised his classes to a level best
                            appreciated, perhaps, in later years when the student out in the world begins to assess the
                            value of his college education.
                    
            
            Dr. Moran was a great teacher because he was a big man, one who saw life clearly and saw it whole. He
                    looked out upon  it cheerfully, courageously, hopefully. To him
                    it offered opportunity for service and this service he rendered unstintedly to the very end.
            He passed away, as I believe he would have chosen to do, in the full richness of his powers, eager,
                    expectant, joyous, ready for the higher services to which he was summoned.
            
                    Let me die, working.
                    Still tackling plans unfinished, tasks undone!
                    Clean to the end, swift may my race be run, No laggard steps, no faltering, no shirking;
                    Let me die,—working.
                    Let me die, thinking.
                    Let me fare forth still with an open mind, Fresh secrets to unfold, new truths to
                    find, My soul undimmed, alert, no question blinking; Let me die,—thinking!
                    Let me die, laughing.
                    No sighing o'er past sins; they are forgiven.
                    Spilled on this earth are all the joys of heaven; Let me die,—laughing.
                
         
         
         
            Document ROBERT DALE OWEN AND INDIANA's COMMON SCHOOL FUND.
            Contributed By HARLOW LINDLEY
            
            This account of the connection of Robert Dale Owen with the Common School Fund of Indiana was written
                    by himself. He was not one to magnify his efforts in any direction, and his account, which I had the
                    privilege of securing some years ago, was, doubtless, not intended for publication. It was written
                    to refresh his recollection about a matter in which he was intensely interested, and I think it of
                    such worth as to be made a matter of record.
            John H. Holliday in "An Indiana Village [Indiana Historical Society, Publications, V, 201-229] accepts the following estimate of Robert Dale Owen which he
                    quotes from the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News of June 26, 1877: 
                        In scholarship, general attainments, varied achievments: as author, statesman, politician,
                            and leader of a new religious faith, he was unquestionably the most prominent man Indiana
                            ever owned. Others may fill now, or may have filled a larger space in public curiosity or
                            interest for a time; but no other Hoosier was ever so widely known or so likely to do the
                            State credit by being known, and no other has ever held so prominent a place so long, with a
                            history so unspotted with selfishness, duplicity or injustice.
                    
            
            In 1836, Robert Dale Owen was a Democratic candidate for the House of Representatives of the Indiana
                    Legislature. He was opposed by two other candidates: James R. E. Goodlet and Kenner Cralle. The vote
                    at the polls stood—Owen, 775; Goodlet, 250; Cralle, 201. Mr. Owen's majority was
                    more than twice as large as any ever given to a candidate for the position in 
                        Posey county
                    .
            At the session of the Legislature of 1836-1837, a number of measures of importance came up for
                    consideration. Among the most important was the application of the "Surplus
                    Revenue," coming to Indiana from the 
                        United States
                     Government. The actual amount received was $1,100,000. Below is a verbatim
                    record of the proceedings, taken from Mr. Owen's manuscript.2
            
            
               
                  1 Read at Tenth Annual Indiana History Conference, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Dec. 7, 1928.
               
                  2 It will be noted that a part of the time Mr. Owen speaks of himself in
                        the first person and a part of the time in the third person.
            
            
            [OWEN's ACCOUNT]
            SURPLUS REVENUE
            The discussions regarding the distribution or application of the Surplus Revenue coming to Indiana
                    (Say about $1,100,000; it was at first expected it would be $1,500,000) were
                    long and animated.
            The principal point of discussion, at first, was whether a portion of this fund should be employed in
                    the support of Common Schools, or devoted to aid in carrying out the Internal Improvement System of
                    the State.
            REMARKS OF MR. OWEN.
            On motion to apply a portion of the proceeds of the surplus revenue to the support of the Common
                    Schools, Mr. Owen said: 
                        I much regret, sir, that this, like so many other questions before us, has been made a party
                            question; one which it is thought necessary to rally those who call themselves the internal
                            improvement party, against those whom they are pleased to designate as the enemies of
                            improvements.
                        I still more regret, sir, the tone and spirit which some gentlemen have permitted themselves
                            on this subject. How stands the case, sir? Each man knows his own peculiar position best.
                            Permit me to refer to mine. My constituents, assembled in public meeting, but a short time
                            before I left home, instructed myself and their senator, in the strongest terms, to use our
                            exertions in this matter in favor of education. In accordance, as well with their express
                            instructions as with my own deep and abiding conviction, I advocate the application of a
                            fund coming to us, as it were by unexpected good fortune, to that object which of all others
                            is nearest to my heart and which I hold to be most intimately connected with the prosperity
                            and morality of our State. And how, sir, is such an expression of opinion met? By charges of
                            intention to disorganize. By accusations of a design to ruin the credit and subvert the
                            internal improvement system of the state. We are charged with seeking to effect these unholy
                            ends, first, by an attempt to add to the system such a supplement as would, by its weight,
                            destroy it; and when this plot failed, by asking for education, that which a regard for the
                            interest of Indiana imperatively demands for rail roads and canals. Arguments thus illiberal
                            and gratuitous produce no impression and merit no reply. From me, at least, they shall have
                            none.
                        But, sir, there are others better worth replying to. My friend from 
                                Pike
                             [George H. Proffitt] says he is sorry that, at last, he is obliged to leave us.
                            So am I, sir, that he has thought it necessary to leave us, in so good a cause. He tells us
                            did I hear him right, sir? that "he will not exactly say that education is
                            unnecessary." I cannot believe that he spoke 
                            otherwise than in jest. He "will not say that it is unnecessary"! Is this
                            the cold, the indifferent tone that is to be employed in regard to a subject, the most
                            important that ever occupied a legislature's time or a nation's thoughts?
                            Not unnecessary! I would that I could express to you, sir, as I feel it,
                            the extent of good or of evil that hangs on our decision. It may be unpopular,
                            sir,—it may be thought visionary in this house—but it is my most
                            honest conviction—that every subject that has come, that can come before
                            us—our great plan of internal improvement itself—is of small
                            importance compared with the wise training of those who, in the next generation, are to make
                            this world a happy or a miserable one. And are not the facts around us—are not
                            our own latent convictions, evidence all sufficient of the truth of my opinion? Do we not
                            feel—the dullest among us—that we are not in temper, in habits, in
                            feeling, in intelligence, what we might have been? That our nature was better than our
                            education? Do we not feel, even in our most careless moments, that there are springs of
                            virtue within us that have seldom been touched—generous aspirings that have
                            hardly been called into action? If we might re-educate ourselves from the cradle upwards,
                            checking the rising vice and cultivating the nascent virtue, bending the pliant habit to
                            reason and mastering the evil passion at its birth, how gladly would we grasp at the offer!
                            how dearly value the privilege! And what selfishness would do for itself, shall not parental
                            affection do for its offspring? shall not Indiana do for its citizens?
                        But, sir, independently of the intrinsic importance of an appropriation for education, what
                            says our Constitution on the subject? Permit me to read to you, sir, Section 2 of Article 9
                            of that document.
                        "It shall be the duty of the General Assembly, as soon as circumstances permit, to
                            provide by law for a general system of education, ascending, in a regular gradation, from
                            township schools to a state university, wherein tuition shall be gratis and equally open to
                            all".
                        Is that, sir, a part of our Constitution, or is it not? If it be, what shall we say to the
                            argument of the gentleman [Mr. Joseph G. Marshall, later candidate of the Whig party for
                            Governor] from Jefferson [county]. "It would be an act of
                            folly"—these, I think, sir, were his words, as I took them
                            down—"It would be an act of folly to give a portion of the surplus
                            revenue to education. OF FOLLY!"
                    
            
            Mr. Marshall explained that he intended merely to express the opinion that, at present, it would be
                    imprudent to expend any portion of the revenue for other purposes than internal improvements.
            Mr. Owen resumed: 
                        Well, sir, the gentleman's opinion is, then, that it behooves us to give internal
                            improvement the complete precedence of education. I deny not, sir, that his opinion is
                            entitled to as much weight as that of any other member on this floor. But, sir, shall it
                            weigh against the opinions—the enactments — of those who framed our
                            Constitution? Shall it weigh against the Constitution itself? Or are we prepared to suffer
                            the very spirit of that Constitution to be violated—its express opinions to be
                            con-  demned—its nobly expressed intentions to
                            be postponed, neglected, set aside? If we are, sir, better far better summon a Convention at
                            once, and strike out the valueless, because powerless, provision. I had rather, sir, see
                            that clause of our Constitution—dearly as I prize—struck out tomorrow
                            than to see it stand there a mere dead letter—a worthless matter of neglected
                            form.
                        "As soon as circumstances permit" These are the constitution's
                            words, sir. What do they mean? How are they understood by those who refuse a portion of this
                            fund to education, not only in the present time, but even in the distant future not only
                            now, but ten years hence? Is it come to this sir? In 1816 our constitution declared that a
                            provision should be made for education as soon as circumstances permit; such a provision,
                            observe you, as would require many hundreds of thousands of dollars to carry it out. Twenty
                            years elapse; and circumstances "do not yet permit" We are busy about
                            something else, and cannot attend to that matter just at present. Is this, even, all? Oh no,
                            sir, far from it. Not only do circumstances not yet permit; but we are willing, even
                            beforehand, to decide, that, ten years hence, circumstances will not, even then, permit us
                            to depart from our present policy. How should we regard a parent who, in view of his present
                            straitened condition as to pecuniary resources, should declare, not only, that for the
                            present he could spare nothing to educate his children, but that even hereafter he could
                            make no such provision? And would not such opinions as those I have alluded to cause Indiana
                            to act towards her young citizens the part of just such a parent?
                        What amount of the fund will probably be required to carry out the constitutional provision
                            in question? Is it a small matter, sir, such as the petty appropriations heretofore made
                            towards that object may suffice for. Let us calculate. There are upwards of one hundred
                            thousand children in Indiana, between the ages of four and sixteen; probably one hundred and
                            twenty thousand. They can not be educated in common day schools, as every farmer's
                            child ought to be, for ten dollars each a year. No teacher can do justice to more than from
                            20 to 30 pupils; and no well qualified teacher should be required—ought to be
                            required—to devote his time and talents to this arduous and important duty for an
                            amount of remuneration less than that obtained by a master carpenter or bricklayer, say
                            $500 or $600 a year. When they are so required, the result is that the
                            situation is inefficiently filled, its respectability destroyed and its sacred duties
                            slighted.
                        But suppose, sir, that ten dollars a year from each scholar were a sufficient compensation;
                            and that our state contains but 100,000 children. One Million, then, is
                            the amount required annually for education. How contemptible a fraction of that sum has,
                            hitherto, been so appropriated!
                        What shall I say to the spirit in which my friend from 
                                Pike
                             tells us that if we are not willing to concede the whole for internal
                            improvement, he for one, is in favor of the majority stepping up, without further phrase or
                            ceremony and taking it. His principles thus nakedly expressed, seem to me
                            to savor not a little of that feudal axiom which some rhymster has,
                            happily enough, condensed into the couplet, "The good old rule  sufficed them, the simple plan, that he should take who has the
                            power, and he should keep who can".
                        Yet, sir, I do not complain that the majority, when they have the power, should freely use
                            it. I but say that if this surplus revenue is finally disposed of without reserving out of
                            it some provision for common schools, it will be, so far as my instrumentality is concerned,
                            for one reason only; and that is because I can not help it.
                    
            
            After much discussion the vote was taken on the application, first of a half, then of a third, then
                    of a fourth, for Common School purposes; and they beat us on each vote, nearly two to one. Upon
                    this, the friends of education lost heart and considered the matter as settled against them.
            Such, however, was not my view of the matter. I saw that though the Internal Improvement party had
                    beaten us, they could not agree among themselves. One party, and a pretty strong one, wished to have
                    the amount of Surplus Revenue coming to the State expended in the creation of Bank Stock. The other
                    party, nearly of equal strength, wished to have it loaned out in each county by an Agent, specially
                    appointed for that purpose, in small sums. These respective parties brought forth their favorite
                    propositions, both agreeing only in this, that the proceeds were to go entirely to Internal
                    Improvement. Our education party had, therefore, a chance of defeating both, if we used it. We first
                    aided the Bank party to defeat the County men, and then joined the latter and threw out the
                    propositions of the former.
            Thus every party in the House was successively defeated; and the members began to see that some
                    compromise only could enable any party to carry its bill through.
            In this state of matters, Mr. Vandaver [Joel Vandeveer] of 
                        Orange County
                    , about a fortnight before the time fixed for the conclusion of the Session, to-wit, on
                    the Friday fortnight before adjournment, after a morning session spent in unavailing discussion,
                    asked me which of the parties I favored, the Bank or the County party. "I
                    observe," said he, "that you and your friends vote against both."
                    "Certainly," said I, "we shall continue to vote against every proposal
                    that does not appropriate a portion of the interest for the support of the Common Schools. I am
                    rather in favor of loaning it out in the Counties, but I tell you plainly, I will join the Bank
                    party, and so will the other friends of education, if that party will give us a portion of the
                    proceeds for education."
            
            "Well," said Vandaver, "it is true that I have always voted against the
                    education proposition, but, after all, it is not so very unreasonable. Suppose you [we] were to
                    allow something for education, would you assist us to get the money loaned out in the
                    Counties?"
            "Yes."
            "Suppose we allow you two per cent, for education? That is a fourth of the whole
                    proceeds."
            "It is not enough."
            "We beat you on that proposal already."
            "True, and we beat you afterwards on yours."
            At last, it was agreed between us, that we would mutually support a Bill providing that the Surplus
                    Revenue be loaned out in the Counties, one-third (2 and 2/3 per cent.) of the proceeds to go for
                    education and the remaining two-thirds for Internal Improvement.
            We met that evening after supper, sat up till midnight, and before we departed, drafted a bill to our
                    mutual satisfaction.
            The next morning, as soon as the House met, I moved to suspend the rules and take up the Surplus
                    Revenue question. Vandavar then moved to amend the bill on the subject [which was] then before the
                    House, by striking it from the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof our compromise bill.
                    The Internal Improvement party were completely taken by surprise; for Vandavar, though not a leader
                    among them, nor a speaker, had hitherto been staunch and even violent on their side and carried some
                    weight with them. That he and I should be found fighting side by side, quite threw them out in all
                    their calculations.
            Various propositions were made to amend the bill. Some by our friends, and these I opposed; some by
                    Vandaver's, and these he opposed, such being our agreement. Among the former was a proposal
                    from Col. [Abel C] Pepper, of 
                        Dearborn
                     [County], a staunch friend of education, to alter one third into one half.
            Pending the discussion of the Surplus Revenue Bill, on motion by Mr. Pepper to change the proportion
                    of the proceeds appropriated to Common Schools from one third to one
                        half of the same, Mr. Owen said: 
                        I fully appreciate the motives of my friend from 
                                Dearborn
                             in making this proposal. I do more, sir. I coincide with him in feeling; I
                            agree  with him in opinion. I hold that at least one half
                            of the proceeds from this surplus revenue ought to be appropriated to education. You
                            know— the House knows—sir, that I have always held, and always
                            unflinchingly expressed that opinion.
                        But, sir, it is a give and take world, this we live in. We can not, all of us, have just what
                            we wish. We are every day called upon to sacrifice our fancies, our darling projects. Have
                            you ever seen a raw countryman elbowing his way, for the first time in his life, perhaps,
                            with uncompromising rigidity, through the crowded streets of some populous city? How slowly,
                            how uncomfortably he progresses! Why, sir? Because he has yet to learn, that where men
                            jostle each other, public comfort as well as individual success requires that each should
                            yield a little; that each should go a trifle out of his way to accommodate his neighbor. As
                            spoilt children sir, in indulged infancy—we may dream that we shall always obtain
                            just what we desire—that we have but to rush forward to our wishes and obtain
                            them. In after life, sir, when we have trodden the world's busy paths during a few
                            years of struggle and experience, we learn, to our regret, that, when we can not have all we
                            will, we must take what we can; that we must consult other inclinations as well as our own,
                            or, we shall soon be elbowed out of the path altogether, and lose even that little which
                            prudence and compromise might have saved us. Compromise! the word has been objected to. Is
                            it not a good word, sir? Does it not designate a good thing? What is a compromise? Is it
                            anything unjust? Is it anything dishonorable? What is a compromise? It is this. You can not
                            obtain all you want. I can not obtain all I want. We both cede a little. We both give up our
                            first choice. And we unite upon a medium proposition: something that is more palatable to me
                            than your proposal, and more palatable to you than mine. Is not this a reasonable, a proper,
                            an honorable course? As the gentleman from 
                                Putnam
                             has well remarked, our very constitution—the constitution of the 
                                United States
                             itself—is but the result of a compromise. And what great and
                            exciting question—the Tariff or any other—has ever been settled in
                            this country except by this very mode—now almost imputed to us as a dishonorable
                            secession from principle—by this very plan of prudent, moderate, reasonable
                            compromise.
                        Such a compromise has been made, I am free to admit it, between the gentlemen from 
                                Orange
                             and myself. The bill before you is the result. It is not my first choice. It is
                            not his. But such as it is we will both stand by it. It gives one third of the proceeds of
                            the revenue to education. More than this I will not ask, less I will not accept.
                            Reluctantly, therefore, but from a strong sense of the prudence and necessity of the course,
                            I shall be compelled to vote against the proposal—so congenial to my
                            feelings—made by the gentleman from 
                                Dearborn
                            .
                    
            
            Col. Pepper withdrew his proposal. After a debate which lasted' from nine o'clock
                    till five, in which all of the principal speakers of the House, Marshall, Jeff [Thomas J.] Evans,
                    Gen. [
                        Milton
                    ] Stapp, Caleb [B.] Smith, Marks Crume, etc., spoke long and loud against the bill, and
                    in which Col. Pepper and  myself were almost the only speakers in
                    its favor, our bill was engrossed by a handsome majority. The next day it passed our House by a
                    still larger one.
            In the Senate it was modified, so as to invest one half in bank stock, the proceeds to go to Internal
                    Improvement, and the other half to be loaned out in the Counties, the proceeds to go for Common
                    Schools.
            When it was returned to us for concurrence Vandaver reminded me of our mutual agreement to stand by
                    the original bill. I told him that though I really preferred the Senate's amendment,
                    inasmuch as it provided a larger fund for education, yet, I would not go back from our original
                    proposal, so long as he adhered to it.
            In the course of the debate, however, Vandaver and his friends, beginning to fear that things would
                    go against them, thinking to force all the friends of education to support their original bill,
                    moved that the whole be invested in bank stock, the entire proceeds to go for Internal Improvement.
            This was a foolish blunder; more especially as it absolved me from all obligation further to support
                    the [Owen's] original bill. Proffitt, of 
                        Pike
                     [County], made a short, spirited speech, calling on all the friends of Internal
                    Improvement to rally and support Vandaver's proposition, and accusing us of deserting him.
                    To this I replied: 
                        I have a few remarks, sir, a very few, and they are in reply to the short, but spirited
                            speech just delivered by the gentleman from 
                                Pike
                            . His proposal is to place the whole in the banks, and take the
                            proceeds—the undivided proceeds—for Internal
                            Improvements—to take all from the counties and all from education. And he asks us
                            "why should we be afraid to do it". I'll tell you,
                            sir,—I'll tell him—why should we be afraid to do it. Because,
                            when we do it, we do it not for ourselves alone, but for others. Because, when we do it,
                            there are witnesses to the deed. Because, when we do it, there is an after reckoning for the
                            deed. The people are our witnesses. We are acting for them. We are responsible to them.
                            Between them and us, sir, is the after reckoning; an after reckoning that may decide for
                            some of us whether we are to return hither or not. That reckoning is at hand, sir. The
                            account has to be rendered soon. There's the rub. That, sir is the reason why we
                            should be afraid—why every upright man may well be afraid—to act in
                            direct opposition to the people's will.
                        But the education men (so the further accusation runs) have abandoned the gentleman from 
                                Orange
                            . He has abandoned US! Whence does this proposition emanate? Why, from him, sir,
                            from his friends. Time it is we should abandon him. No, sir, I will not say that. I trust
                            always to remain his friend. My hand in kindness I shall never refuse him. But  as politicians here we sunder. He has departed from us. We but
                            follow his example. And now he stands on one side of the Rubicon, we on the other. To place
                            the whole in the counties was my first choice. This amendment from the Senate is my second.
                            The proposal to place no money in the counties and give no proceeds to education is not even
                            my third, no, nor fourth, nor fifth, nor ANY choice. Between it and the proposal before us
                            the election is to be made. I go for the Senate's amendment, both hands up.
                    
            
            In the course of half an hour afterwards [January 31, 1837] the Senate's Amendment passed by
                    a triumphant majority, and became the law of Indiana. It was a great triumph over the old leaders of
                    the House.
            Robert Dale Owen, by his benign and courteous manners, by his evident honesty and sincerity in trying
                    to do what he thought was right,' by his profound and varied learning, by his unflagging
                    industry and freedom from personal vices had commended himself, quickly and effectively, to the
                    favor of his colleagues of the House; hence, by the aid of clever strategy in outwitting and
                    manipulating warring factions, his "great triumph over the old leaders of the
                    House;" hence, the inestimable blessing which he conferred upon the generations of children
                    which were to come after him by establishing the COMMON SCHOOL FUND of Indiana on a firm financial foundation.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               A Bibliography of the Laws of Indiana, 1788-1927. By John G. Rauch and Nellie C.
                    Armstrong. Indiana Historical Collections, volume XVI, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1928. Pp. xxxix + 77, $1.00.
            We are told in the preface that this bibliography grew out of the undertaking of Mr. Rauch to prepare
                    a catalogue of his extensive collections of original printings of the acts adopted by the several
                    lawmaking bodies which have legislated for the territory now forming the State of Indiana. The
                    instant work is an expansion of the catalogue prepared by Mr. Rauch into a complete bibliography by
                    supplying the few missing items from other sources and adding such collation of title pages and text
                    as would readily identify each publication. The bibliography covers publications of session laws and
                    revisions issued officially by Territorial or State authority as well as certain privately compiled
                    revisions or reprints which cover a single session or a longer period. Official and private
                    publications of single laws, or collected laws upon a single subject are not included.
            Many interesting historical facts are revealed by this bibliography. It is almost startling for those
                    of us who have been trained to think of the three independent and coördinate branches of
                    the government as inseparable from democratic institutions to read, "Laws of the Territory
                    of the 
                        United States
                     North-west of the 
                        Ohio
                     Adopted and made by the Governour and Judges, in their Legislative
                    Capacity…"; or "Laws Adopted by the Governour and Judges of the Indiana
                    Territory at their Second and Third Sessions, Begun and Held at Saint 
                        Vincennes
                    , 30th January 1802, & February 16th, 1803." A half forgotten
                    historical fact is suggested by "Laws for the Government of the District of 
                        Louisiana
                    , Passed by the Governour and Judges of the Indiana Territory, at their First Session,
                    Begun and Held at 
                        Vincennes
                    , on Monday, the first day of October, 1804." In the preface is pointed out a
                    curious circumstance in connection with the numbering of the General Assemblies. It seems that the
                    General Assembly just following the forty-third was misnumbered the forty-fifth, and that this error
                    has been continued in regard to all subsequent ses-  sions. Dr.
                    Christopher B. Coleman, who writes the preface, suggests that this is probably due to the
                    interposition of a special session of the Legislature following the forty-third session.
            The bibliography contains a complete list of the collections of special and local laws and in reading
                    through the list one is reminded that prior to the adoption of our present constitution a
                    considerable part of the legislative output consisted of special and local laws, the granting of
                    divorces being quite commonly the subject-matter of special legislation. A bi-lingual period in the
                    development of Indiana is suggested by encountering in this bibliography the following: 
                        DIE REVIDIRTEN Gesetze des Staates Indiana, erlassen in der sechsunddreissigsten Sitzung der
                            General-Versammlung; nebst diversen Verordnungen, Ordonnanzen und öffentlichen
                            Documenten, deren Druck mit den besagten Gesetzen verordnet wurde. Diesen sind
                            vorangeschickt die Constitution der Vereinigten Staaten und die des Staates Indiana.
                    
            
            The foreging is the result of a special act passed at the thirty-sixth session of the General
                    Assembly providing that a German translation of the revised statutes of 1852 be printed and
                    published.
            The Introduction furnishes an excellent historical account of the various claims to sovereignty over
                    the territory now known as Indiana, since the treaty of 
                        Paris
                     in 1763. The appendix contains a wealth of information under the titles: (1)
                    "Place and Date of Legislative Sessions"; (2) "List of Territorial
                    Judges, and Territorial and State Governors"; (3) "Promulgation of the
                    Laws"; (4) "List of Authorized Private Revisions of the Law"; (5)
                    "List of Special, Local, and Militia Laws."
            This new volume is a valuable addition to the Indiana Historical Collections and
                    will be appreciated by both history and law students. It represents high grade scholarship, as well
                    as skilled workmanship, and evidences the intention of the Indiana Historical Bureau to furnish the
                    finest and most accurate working tools for student and scholar.
            Walter C. Treanor.
         
         
         
            
               The Life of George Rogers Clark. By JAMES ALTON JAMES. The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1928. xiii + 534 pp. Illustrated, $5.00.
            This new biography of George Rogers Clark, published on the eve of the one hundred fiftieth
                    anniversary of the most stirring events of his life, is a timely one. The volume is all that we
                    might expect from the pen of one who for more than twenty years has been a collector of material
                    pertaining to the career of George Rogers Clark. This quest, Professor James tells us, was not
                    confined to the manuscript collections such as the well known Draper Manuscripts of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society, the Library of Congress, and State Archives, but took him to
                    the Archives of foreign countires, notably, 
                  England,
                            France
               , and 
                        Spain
                    . The result of this activity has been the publication of two volumes of Clark Papers in the Collections of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, covering the period from 1771 to 1784. Other volumes are to
                    follow.
            The Life is based almost entirely on this collection of source material. It is not a eulogy, yet it
                    is a sympathetic interpretation of Clark's career, covering the period from his birth in
                    1752, on a farm adjacent to the estate of the Jeffersons near 
                  Charlottesville, Virginia
               ,
                    to the time of his death, near 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , in 1818. The volume is more than a
                    biography, it is a real contribution to the history of the West during the American Revolution and
                    the years which immediately followed.
            Among the best portions of the volume is that dealing with the part taken by the Spanish in the
                    Revolutionary War in the West. For the first time, the aid given to Clark and to Congress by Oliver
                    Pollock, supported by Governor Galvez of the Province of Lousiana, receives adequate treatment.
                    Pollock is aptly termed, the "Financier of the Revolution in the West." The
                    relationship of the military movements in the upper 
                        Ohio
                     country, so often ignored, to Clark's activity on the 
                        Kentucky
                     frontier, has been brought into clear perspective. The refusal of Colonel Daniel
                    Brodhead, commander at Fort Pitt, to cooperate with Clark, in 1781, is given as the probable cause
                    of the failure of the contemplated expedition against 
                        Detroit
                     which was planned for that year.
            On the mooted question concerning the part that Glark's capture of the 
                        Illinois
                     posts and Fort Sackville played in  making the 
                        Mississippi
                     the western boundary at the close of the Revolution, Professor James takes a middle
                    ground between those who claim that the conquest was the primary cause for the favorable boundaries,
                    and others like Alvord who maintain that it had nothing to do with it. Admitting that the
                    friendliness of Lord Shelburne and his desire to regain the good will of the Americans doubtless had
                    its effect, the author thinks that a knowledge of the fact that Clark occupied a strategic position
                    at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     at the close of the Shawnee Campaign of 1782, served to confirm Shelburne in his
                    decision. This position enabled Clark to dominate a larger area in the Northwest than was actually
                    in his military possession.
            Nearly one half of the volume is devoted to the career of Clark and frontier problems, following
                    1783. The main incidents in this period of Clark's life, such as the seizure of the
                    property of three Spanish merchants who had come to 
                        Vincennes
                     to trade in 1786, the offer made to Genet to lead an expedition against 
                        New Orleans
                    , and the acceptance of the commission of brigadier general from the French Government,
                    are interpreted in the light of frontier conditions, as they should be. The attitude of the Spanish
                    officials in regard to the navigation of the Mississippi River by Americans
                    aroused great hatred towards 
                        Spain
                    , throughout the West. At the same time, the Confederation Government was weak and the
                    people of the West had little confidence in its ability to redress their grievances.
            All students of western history will welcome this new Life of Clark, by far the best one which has
                    yet been published.
            Charles Roll.
         
         
            
               ILLINOIS COLLEGE: A Centennial History. By President CHARLES HENRY RAMMELKAMP.
                    Yale University Press, 
                        New Haven
                    , 1928. Pp. xv + 605, $7.50.
            The history of American frontier life has no more thrilling chapter than the story of the struggles
                    of the colleges founded in the middle west around the beginning of the second quarter of the
                    nineteenth century. Nor is there a more important chapter to the student intent upon discovering the
                    directive forces which have determined the trend of life in this section of our country. For these
                    small colleges, stretched like a line  of forts along the
                    frontier of that day, were centers from which the culture of the 
                        New England
                     states permeated the North Central region, giving this new population group not only a
                    high general intelligence but a hospitality to sound scholarship which has been unusually productive
                    of the scientific, literary, political and industrial leadership of the nation. The 
                        New Harmony
                     Colony was such a center of stimulation in Indiana, but for the most part we are
                    indebted throughout the central west to the colleges.
            No institution has performed a more distinguished service of this kind than 
                        Illinois
                     College. Founded by a "Yale Band" of scholars, responding to the
                    appeal of a "Home Missionary Preacher," it brought to the frontier of a century
                    ago the Yale scholarship and catholicity of mind wedded to religious fervor, combining the
                    contributions of class room and chapel in the making of a great commonwealth, and sending its
                    influence to the ends of the land.
            President Rammelkamp tells the story of his College well. It is a book one reads through in one
                    sitting. One feels in its pages the devotion which only twenty-three years of consecrated labor and
                    personal sacrifice will give. It is like a mother's love. The author has the historical
                    sense. This has enabled him to make the unfolding story show the evolution of the College. The book
                    is thus a contribution to the history of education of great value, and also an effective appeal to
                    the appreciation of the constituency of the institution. It is a splendid "case
                    study" in educational history.
            William A. Millis.
         
         
            
               The Crucible. By President JAMES A. BURNS. The Oneida Institute, Oneida, 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1928. Pp. 126, $5.00.
            This fascinating narrative, the sub-title of which is A Tale of 
                            Kentucky
                         Feuds, is a brief story of his his own life, ideals and work by
                    "Burns of the Mountains." No other but Burns could tell the story. The one regret
                    of the reviewer is that the author did not write a much more extensive volume. Burns, when a boy or
                    fourteen, earned the money to buy books and get a little schooling by digging ginseng. A country
                    school was started three miles from his father's home in West Virgina.  Knowing no other way to obtain the money for books, he decided in favor
                    of the "sang hoe". "Accordingly", he writes, "I took to
                    the woods and with 'sang hoe' and 'sang bag'." He could
                    "sang" through the mountains to the new schoolhouse in the process of
                    construction, "inspect it," and then "sang" back home. At the
                    age of sixteen, the curriculum of this first school had been mastered.
            The father was a mountain circuit rider who had left the hills of eastern 
                        Kentucky
                     to get away from the feuds. He died soon after the son completed his course at the
                    country school. It was not long until young Burns returned to the old 
                        Kentucky
                     home at the forks of the Bull Skin, then forty miles from the nearest railroad. Here he
                    became involved in a feud, on one side of which his family had been ranged for years. His clothes
                    were sometimes "pierced by bullets". He passed through four years of hair-breadth
                    escapes", but did not lose his life, nor take a life. In the last fight in which he
                    participated, he was beaten over the head with the butt of a rifle, and thrown over a paling fence
                    "into a patch of tall weeds", supposedly dead; but he did not die.
            He recovered from the blow. He wandered alone. He pondered deeply. He saw life clearly. His feud days
                    were over. He left the hills. He found his way to Dennison University where he attended college for
                    a few months. Again he returned to the hills of 
                        Kentucky
                    , still thinking deeply on his problem. It was not long until he founded The Oneida
                    Institute. This was his plan for stopping the Howard-Baker feud. The Institute still lives, and
                    Burns is still the President. Year after year for almost thirty years, many mountain children have
                    been taken care of at this school. During all these years "Burns of the Mountains"
                    has clung to his ideal. He has the faith of a prophet of old. At the end of his book he says:
                    "The work of Oneida Institute has scarcely begun. It shall be carried on into the ages, a
                    heritage for generations yet unborn."
            W. O. L.
         
         
            
               A History of Vineennes University in the form of an attractive illustrated pamphlet
                    of twenty-eight pages was published in 1928, copies of which may be secured from the President of
                    the school. The writer of this brief but interesting ac-  count
                    is Mr. Curtis G. Shake of 
                        Vincennes
                    , an alumnus of the institution. He is now, and has been for several years, a member of
                    the Board of Trustees. The preparation of this short history was a labor of love for the author who
                    has laudable hopes for the future of his alma mater. He closes his modest
                    narrative with this sincere statement: 
                        After all, the greatest asset that the University possesses is the host of alumni, former
                            students, and friends who are determined that it shall live and prosper, for what Daniel
                            Webster once said of Dartmouth may be said of 
                                Vincennes
                             University: "She is a small college, sir, but there are those who love
                            her."
                    
            
            A volume of two hundred fifty-eight pages, Lincoln the Hoosier, by Dr. Charles
                    Garrett Vannest was brought out last fall by the Eden Publishing House of 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . The volume treats rather extensively that portion of Lincoln's life which was
                    spent in Indiana. From the age of seven to twenty-one, the boy was under the influence of the
                    environment of southwestern Indiana. The period was from 1816 to 1830, when pioneer conditions
                    prevailed. The author declares that his purpose in writing the book was to prove that Lincoln was a
                    Hoosier. He feels that he has succeeded in demonstrating this, and also in showing that the youth of
                    Lincoln was not spent in a "cramped cultural environment." His simple formula is
                    that "Lincoln's blood and environment explain him", and, with this in
                    mind, the volume is mainly devoted to these two factors.
            Mrs. Kate Milner Rabb has written a monograph with the engaging title, Indiana Coverlets
                        and Coverlet Weavers. This study has appeared as Number 8 of Volume 8 of the Indiana
                    Historical Society Publications (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1928). The author has gathered much data relative to the history of the art of weaving
                    coverlets in Indiana. Through this process, as through that of "piecing quilts" of
                    colorful and varied patterns, pioneer women satisfied some of their longings for beauty, a thing
                    rare enough in frontier days. The reasons that gave rise to coverlet weaving in pioneer Indiana, are
                    still operative in the mountain areas of the South, where skill in weaving
                    "kivers" has not yet vanished. It is a good sign that there is at present a
                    widespread appreciation of the kind of art which  frontier life
                    fostered. Mrs. Rabb has done well to delve into this subject She concludes truly that,
                    "perhaps half the charm of coverlet study comes from the fact that in it one reads so much
                    of the story of the Indiana pioneer."
            The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society has broughout out a substantial volume, 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         in the War with 
                            Germany
                        
               , I. The book has been prepared with great care by Franklin F. Holbrook and
                    Livia Appel. There is a brief introduction by Dr. Solon J. Buck, Superintendent of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society. The frontispiece is a picture of American troops landing in 
                        France
                    . There are eleven additional full-page ilustrations. The volume is not just a jumble of
                    miscellaneous matter pertaining to 
                        Minnesota
                    's part in the World War, but an actual history of the State's part in
                    the great event at home and abroad, though very little space is given to the foreign service of 
                        Minnesota
                    's soldiers. A second volume which will stress civilian activities, as the
                    first has been devoted to military matters, is to follow in the near future. The first volume is one
                    of three hundred seventy-four pages. It came from the press last summer. In some States war books of
                    this nature appeared too soon, and were, therefore, too hastily prepared. 
                        Minnesota
                     did well to wait for a reasonable period.
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            The Atlantic Monthly for March (1929) carries an excellent article by George
                    Alexander Johnston on the "New Biography". Emil Ludwig, André Maurois
                    and Lytton Strachey are treated as the outstanding examples of phenomenal success in this kind of
                    writing. These authors with the instincts of novelists, and possessing much the same skill in
                    drawing characters and portraying dramatic events, have become biographers in competition with
                    trained and untrained historians of the old school. Untrained and uncritical writers need not here
                    be considered. These we shall have with us as long as publishers will accept their manuscripts and
                    readers buy their books.
            In regard to scholarly and critical biographers of the regulation type, certain it is that they are
                    at a disadvantage when pitted against a Ludwig or a Strachey. Whether lacking a sense of the
                    dramatic or not, they are unwilling to employ it extensively, knowing too well that no
                    man's life is a series of thrilling episodes. From the literary angle, the sane reader
                    tires of the power with which authors with the genius of the three above mentioned writers deliniate
                    character, certain that he is being presented with distorted portraits. He often longs for a plain
                    statement of facts and a style that will leave him some opportunity to construct pictures of men and
                    scenes for himself. The man with the gift of a novelist, who turns bioographer, may sometimes be as
                    much out of place as the prosaic, scholarly biographer who tries to produce a novel, except in the
                    matter of financial returns from an undiscriminating public.
            Not only have present day readers access to a few unusual biographies by writers of rare talents, but
                    they are confronted with a flood of books, biographical and historical, from the pens of journalists
                    who have turned historians overnight. Their productions sell readily. Interesting and easy to read,
                    the perusal of one volume calls for another to take its place. Our contemporary journalistic
                    historians delve into a few sources with an instinct for news and select what readers are sure to
                    enjoy. Almost before making a beginning, they all feel sure that they understand men and events of
                    the past  better than any of the scholarly writers who have
                    already made such "pitiful" efforts at writing. Any man, event, or time that the
                    journalistic writer gathers no new material about, he writes up on the basis of what he remembers
                    from school histories or what he has picked up incidentally. He writes just as fluently about what
                    he does not know as about what he knows. He consigns men to the lowest depths or lauds them to the
                    skies. Though most leaders were gray, he pictures them as either black or white.
            How long will the present craze for the hurried, half-true, but entertaining books produced by such
                    writers continue? Probably until real searchers for the truth develop the power to present their
                    findings to the reading public in more appealing language. Perhaps workers in the field of history
                    ought to be compelled to acquire experience in journalism prior to the perpetration of volumes on an
                    unappreciative public. There would seem to be a greater need, at present, that journalists, who feel
                    the urge to write history, should be required to take a course in historical criticism, before being
                    permitted to feed their half-baked efforts to unprotected readers.
            Teachers in the public schools and even college professors are confronted with a danger that is
                    usually unseen. The common belief that anyone who has acquired a certain amount of education will
                    always retain at least that much is erroneous. Teachers can become uneducated while engaged in the
                    process of teaching, and enough there are who travel this road. Teachers of history in senior and
                    junior high schools are not free from this menace. They must read and reflect on something, however
                    little, beyond what is required of them in the way of the daily preparation of lessons, or gradually
                    lose value as teachers of history. The college teacher with a doctor's degree may be, and
                    occasionaly is, handicapped by the possession of the title. The attainment of the degree is a step
                    that should mean a preparation for continued progress. It sometimes means the end of real endeavor.
            To the high school teachers of history in Indiana a few suggestions may not be out of place. Large
                    numbers spend summer sessions and other periods whenever possible in further study. To those who
                    attend some university at every opportunity less need be said than to others. All can profit by  regularly reading one or more magazines of history. From this
                    sort of reading there comes a stimulus that no teacher of history can afford to miss. University
                    graduates engaged in presenting history to high school classes, frequently have good opportunities
                    to study some phase or phases of local history. Many such teachers have the ability, or may easily
                    acquire it, to do effective research of this kind. If only a few will look about them with seeing
                    eyes and discerning minds, valuable source matter will be found in collections of old letters, in
                    old newspaper files, and stored in the memories of older men and women. The process of collecting
                    information from such sources will be worth while in itself. If after having collected, assimilated,
                    and correlated a sufficient mass of material, a saving few will carefully prepare papers for
                    publication in the Indiana Magazine of History, they will do themselves and all
                    who are interested in the history of the State a real service.
            In the January (1929) issue of the American Historical Review appeared certain
                    comment (p. 441) relative to the September (1928) number of our own quarterly. After mention of the
                    principal articles included in that issue, this criticism followed: "It is submitted with
                    all due respect and becoming humility, that this number of the Magazine,
                    particularly the Beveridge article, carries more than its permissible quota of typographical
                    errors." The Editor acknowledges with sorrow the entire justice of this
                    comment. His spirit was weighed down with the burden of the designated errors for many days before
                    his attention was thus kindly directed to them. He can only plead certain facts in extenuation of
                    poor work done. It was necessary to rush the September number. The editor was new and the clerk was
                    new. Many of the student printers employed by the University Press were new, and a few of the worst
                    errors were made while others were being corrected. We can only hope for improvement in ourselves,
                    and state that we were saddened to note that our great contemporary carried the erroneous title,
                    "Economic Background of the Liberal Party" (Liberty Party, it
                    should have been), as a heading through seven pages. We do not know the "permissible
                    quota" for an error of this nature.
            
            Professor Frank F. Hargrave of Purdue University has been working on the history of the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     Railroad for several years. He expects to publish a volume on this railway soon. This
                    important line of communication and transportation was early completed to 
                        Michigan
                     City, thus connecting the 
                        Ohio
                     with Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . It has for many years formed a part of the Monon system. There is much railroad
                    history yet to be written, and Professor Hargrave's book will be welcomed.
            Miss Louise Phelps Kellogg has an article on "How the Northwest was Captured" in
                    the February issue of La Follette's Magazine. For a number of years Miss
                    Kellogg has been connected with the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     as research associate. She has long been a student of George Rogers Clark, and we are
                    glad indeed to present to our readers a short paper from her pen in this issue of our Magazine.
            
            Miss Katherine Heron of 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana, who is much interested in local history, and who has acquired a small but
                    valuable collection of rare old newspapers and coins, recently prepared a series of articles on the
                    "Early History of 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Fayette
                     Counties". The series consisted of six papers, which were published in the 
                  
                            Connersville
                         News-Examiner. The first article appeared in the issue of December 3, 1928,
                    and the last in that of December 8. Much of the matter presented is based on documents in the
                    possession of Miss Heron.
            Mrs. Jouett Taylor Cannon, Secretary of the 
                        Kentucky
                     State Historical Society, presents some interesting matter pertaining to Abraham
                    Lincoln, grandfather of President Lincoln, in the January (1929) number of the Register. Readers of the paper on Hananiah Lincoln by Louis A. Warren, which we print in
                    this issue, will be interested in examining the matter furnished by Mrs. Cannon. The question taken
                    up by her is: "Where did Thomas Lincoln, father of President Lincoln, get the money to pay
                    for the Mill Creek farm in 
                        Hardin County
                     which he purchased for cash in 1803"? In the 
                    Register for January, 1924, Mrs. Cannon presented what she then thought to be a
                    correct answer to this question. She now presents evidence which seems to cast doubt on her earlier
                    conclusions. Incidentally, she has learned that Lincoln's grandfather, though not a
                    scholar, was quite able to write his name and transact business in legal form. Another point of
                    interest and worth noting is that the Christian name of Thomas Lincoln's mother, according
                    to Mrs. Cannon, was "Bathsheba."
            The cover page picture of this issue is reproduced from Maurice Thompson's Stories of Indiana (p. 48), by the courtesy of the American Book Company of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . In the original edition of this little book, a picture portraying Clark and his
                    soldiers in the uniform of 
                        Washington
                    's Continentals was used. With a very commendable desire to represent more
                    correctly the appearance of the frontiersmen who marched with Clark, the picture, which we use, was
                    substituted in a revised edition by the publishers.
            On February 25, one hundred fifty years after the event, the capture of Fort Sackville by George
                    Rogers Clark was fittingly celebrated at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The importance of the services of the hero of that exploit to the Nation then being
                    born was not recognized for a hundred years. During the last half century a notable change has taken
                    place, and due credit has now been accorded to Clark, Pollock, and others who participated in the
                    remote but significant activities of the Revolutionary War in the West. Clark and his associates did
                    not accomplish everything in the saving and holding of the Old Northwest. They must share the glory
                    with Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    , William Henry Harrison and others, who, in later years, supplemented their work. There
                    is, however, honor enough for all.
            The annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association will be held
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     late in April (25-27). The program promises to be very interesting. Indiana should be
                    well represented. Many persons in the State, who are not members of this Association but who have a
                    vital interest in the history of the vast valley of which Indiana forms a part, should become
                    members at once and enjoy the 
                        Vincennes
                     meeting.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain some of the desired matter listed below.
                    The Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need
                    of copies of the publications mentioned in order to complete files. For the older and rarer numbers,
                    prices above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired magazines or
                    other matter, will confer a great favor by writing to Dr. R. C. Buley, Business Manager of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1898 to 1906, six volumes in all. Wanted, two complete files. Partial sets will be
                    considered.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during 1914. Wanted, a complete file, and also an extra copy of Number 1.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. Wanted issues of this quarterly for the years
                    1905-1912, inclusive. From one to two dollars per copy will be paid for separate numbers of these
                    years. Wanted also, the following issues of later years: March and December, 1926; double-number,
                    June-September, 1925; December, 1921; March, 1922.
         
      
   
