
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 46, Issue 2, pages 121-220. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:46+issue:2+year:1950&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Crusade in the Wilderness, 1750-1830
            
               Roy M. Robbins*
            The eighteenth century European world, noted for its religious apathy and agnosticism, had little
                    spiritual fervor to offer to the Atlantic Coast regions in America, let alone to the frontiers which
                    were rapidly merging into a united front along the Piedmont, soon to be breaking across the
                    mountains into the Great Valley. In like fashion, the spiritual heritage from
                    the established churches along the coast was not of the highest order, and if it had not been for
                    certain revivalist forces rising out of 
                  England, Scotland
               , and perhaps western Europe, the Middle West of
                    America might well have become a region noted for its godlessness as many expected it to become. To
                    the contrary, however, this region to the westward emerged as a community conspicuous for its
                    spiritual foundations, with a moral code almost as puritanical as that of early 
                        New England
                    . Why this paradox; whence these foundations? Volumes have been written on this subject
                    within the last thirty years by Professors William W. Sweet, Colin B. Goodykoontz, and others. Maybe
                    a twenty-minute synthesis of their researches on the foundations of the early West can afford some
                    solace and inspiration to our troubled and disillusioned world of today.
            The frontier with its freer environment was a laboratory for a religious revivalism which gathering
                    form in the second third of the eighteenth century spread over America in the movement known as the
                    Great Awakening.1 This evangelism 
                  
                     * Roy M. Robbins is head of the department of history and
                            political science, Butler University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the session on "Religion and
                            Education" at the forty-third annual meeting of the Mississippi
                            Valley Historical Association at 
                                Oklahoma City
                            , 
                                Oklahoma
                            , on April 20, 1950.
                  
                     1 Wesley M. Gewehr, The Great Awakening in 
                                    Virginia
                                , 1740-1790 (
                                Durham
                            , 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1930); and C. H. Maxson, The Great Awakening in the Middle
                                Colonies (
                                Chicago
                            , 1920).
               
                     which began in the Anglican church in 
                        England
                     with such revivalists as George Whitefield and the Wesley brothers, spread to America
                    invading not only the Anglican church in the South but rapidly moving northward to penetrate the
                    Presbyterian church of the Scotch-Irish strongholds and into 
                        New England
                     stirring up the Baptists of 
                        Rhode Island
                     and the Congregationalists, led by that great intellectual, Jonathan Edwards. The
                    revival which lasted from 1735 to 1745 had a most revolutionary effect upon the nascent Presbyterian
                    church, primarily confined to the newer parts of the middle colonies and already pushing to the
                    southwestward along the Piedmont. While most of the East was to gradually slip back into apathy and
                    secularism, the Presbyterians were to continue their revivalist movement into the newer frontiers,
                    establishing beachheads from which the cross was soon to be carried across the mountains into the
                    West.
            The Scotch-Irish, who were religiously more Scotch than Irish, brought their Presbyterian faith with
                    them to America, and since the early years of the century 
                        Scotland
                     had aided them with money, Bibles, and even ministers. The Scottish religious and
                    educational heritage cannot be underestimated, for 
                        Scotland
                     was perhaps the most literate country of all Europe in the eighteenth century, and this
                    faith like that of the 
                        Puritan
                     church of 
                        New England
                     required a definite amount of literacy to be understood. These Presbyterians were
                    dire-hearted religious enthusiasts; persecution in the Old World had fired them with a religious
                    freedom and spirit which they were determined above all else to keep aglow in the new. They had been
                    promised religious freedom in Penn's colony, and they expected it elsewhere. As one
                    authority has said: they were stubborn in their insistence on rights—‘they
                    kept the Sabbath and everything else they could get their hands on." And another authority
                    observes: the Ulster Presbyterians "made good frontiersmen, but they also stood in need of
                        prayer."2
            
            At the outbreak of Independence the religious stirrings in the back country boded ill for the
                    established order along the coast. In 
                        Virginia
                     especially, the established church was faced with the fact that one-half of the
                    population was now composed of dissenters and the Anglican church itself was 
                  
                     2 Quoted in Colin B. Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the
                                American Frontier (
                        Caldwell,
                                    Idaho
                     , 1939), 75.
               
                     stirring with the evangelical Methodist movement, having
                    provided few missionaries of the more orthodox character.3 Some readjustment had
                    been made, but for the Episcopalians it was going to be too little and too late.
            One would hardly expect religion to flourish during a great revolution, especially when the
                    prevailing philosophy of that revolution centered around the Lockian natural rights philosophy.4 Time does not allow to deal with the movement for separation of church and
                    state or religious freedom, two great landmarks of the War for Independence which were to have
                    tremendous influence upon the development of the country west of the mountains. Indeed the
                    principles of the Revolution, planted and nourished in the New West, were to make that region more
                    republican than the East itself.
            But have not these great achievements obscured some significant losses? Many churches, schools, and
                    colleges were destroyed. Many youths who would have become religious leaders fell on the field of
                    battle. Moreover, it must be admitted that two wars within one generation did much to increase
                    apathy and deadness of spirit, already paralyzing the European world. Indeed, the young nation was
                    poorly equipped to bear the cross, let alone to carry it across the mountains to a wilderness region
                    which had been acquired by the Treaty of 1783.
            The Confederation period was characterized by a readjustment of religious institutions along national
                    lines. In spite of the new national organizations of the Episcopalians, Methodists, and
                    Presbyterians, the East was not able to help to any great degree the vast movements of peoples, many
                    of whom were still moving along the Piedmont while others poured over the mountains into western
                            
                  Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky
               ,
                    and 
                        Tennessee
                    . The Land Ordinance of 1785, which encouraged individual and indiscriminate settlement
                    rather than the group settlement of the 
                        New England
                     type, was hardly conducive to an effective religious advance. The Ordinance of 1787 and
                    the Federal Constitution were notable in their profession of religious freedom and encouragement of
                    religion, but material aid was notably absent. In 
                  
                     3 Thomas J. Wertenbaker, The Founding of American
                                Civilization (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1938-1947), II (1942), The Old South, 210.
                  
                     4 J. Franklin Jameson, The American Revolution as a
                                Social Movement (
                                Princeton
                            , 1926), 132-141; William W. Sweet, Story of Religiona in
                            America (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 275 ff.
               
                     truth, the federal government which began in 1789 could not
                    have been inaugurated under more unfavorable religious conditions—and the French
                    Revolution with its infidelity was just ahead.
            In spite of the times, some progress was made. The Methodists seemed to have profited most from
                    adversity. What was the loss to the Episcopalians became the gain of the Methodists, particularly in
                    the Piedmont and across the mountains.5 Here in the West the Baptists also grew
                        rapidly.6 But it was the Presbyterian effort that was the greatest in this
                    early national period. Even before the Revolution ended, western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     had three resident Presbyterian ministers, though there was no church until 1782. In
                    1781, the synod of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                     erected the presbytery of Redstone, and in 1786 the presbyteries of 
                        Transylvania
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     were established.7 Academies and colleges were being founded in the
                    Piedmont which sought out the most promising youths and trained them for ministers, though 
                        Princeton
                     continued to furnish the bulk of the missionaries— a point which will be
                    given more adequate attention later. In 1793 the presbytery of 
                        Ohio
                     was created for the territory west of the Monongahela, and in 1801 the presbytery of
                    Erie was created to the northward.
            But regardless of all this religious movement in the wilderness there was still much that was
                    discouraging. The pioneers were spreading out into so many directions at the same time that no
                    church, no matter how well-organized, could ever have kept pace. The reports of observers in the
                    West, nevertheless, were portentous; many places especially on the fringe of settlement were more
                    like the wilderness around them. Even 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , the oldest of the trans-montane settlements, did not escape the censure even of
                    persons admittedly sympathetic with a secular way of life. Bishop Francis Asbury said of this
                    frontier town in 1789: "The people were very attentive, but alas! they are far from God,
                    and too near the savages in situations and manners."8 In 
                  
                     5 Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the American
                            Frontier, 104; Minutes of the Methodist Conference, 1773-1794 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1795), 14, 70.
                  
                     6 Sweet, Story of Religions in America, 314.
                  
                     7 Solon J. Buck and Elizabeth H. Buck, The Planting of
                                Civilization in Western 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1939), 402, 412.
                  
                     8 Quoted in ibid., 414.
               
                     addition to this degrading influence of nature were the
                    infidelity forces of the French Revolution which penetrated to the frontier of America, in fact,
                    finding perhaps more fertile reception in 
                        Kentucky
                     than elsewhere. Confusion, apathy, and fear produced a very dark moment, indeed, in the
                    New West but fortunately it was a dark moment before a dawn.
            On the heels of these struggling beginnings occurred the Great Revival. This revival centered
                    primarily in 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Ohio Valley. Here in this region the frontier had been
                    almost constantly harrassed by Indian raids since the Revolutionary War. Living in daily fear of the
                    Indian had seemingly increased the revivalist religious spirit. The Presbyterian minister, John
                    McMillan, had noted an "outpouring of the spirit," as he described it, in his
                    congregations in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1781, 1795, and 1799.9
            
            It was out of this Presbyterian beachhead that the missionary James McGready parted in 1796, headed
                    for new pastures in 
                        Logan County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . During the next three summers the torch of faith began to lighten up the surrounding
                    countryside; McGready's congregations got larger and larger and a revivalist spirit began
                    to break the bounds into the surrounding territory. A spiritual uplift had begun. This movement
                    similar to that of the Great Awakening has often been called the Second Great Awakening, but
                    generally it is known simply as the Great Revival.10 The Reverend Barton W.
                    Stone came like many ministers to 
                        Logan County
                     to see if what he had heard was true. He saw wondrous things with his own eyes, and
                    returning to his own congregations he determined to stir up a bigger and better fire. Thus at Cane
                    Ridge in August, 1801, Stone organized a camp meeting with twenty thousand people attending, some
                    coming as far away as the Ohio River.
            Ere many a month had gone by, the camp meeting had become quite an institution, in fact, one of the
                    significant and enduring religious contributions of this period of history—the precursor
                    of the later Chautauqua movement which lasted well into the twentieth century. The night meetings
                    with their great torch lights must have presented an awe-inspiring 
                  
                     9 Joseph Smith, Old Redstone (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1854), 187-188.
                  
                     10 Catherine Cleveland, The Great Revival in the West,
                                1797-1805 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1816); John P. McLean, "The 
                                Kentucky
                             Kevival and Its Influence on the Miami Valley," 
                                Ohio
                             State Archaeological and Historical Society Publications (
                                Columbus
                            , 1891-), XII (1903), 281.
               
                     spectacle. Moreover, the taking of the sacraments in public
                    surely provided much inspiration and reassurance for the average backwoodsman, and the general
                    religious tone of the frontier was without doubt considerably improved.
            The orthodox or "Old Side" Presbyterians were shocked at much of the Great Revival,
                    and again as sixty years before, old sores were reopened.11 It is not the
                    purpose here to take sides on the controversies stirred up by the revival; perhaps the real issue at
                    stake as stated by a noted church historian was "Whether it was better to allow whole vast
                    areas to remain without the gospel entirely, or to send them sound teachers who loved souls and knew
                    the way of salvation though they did not know either Latin or Greek."12
            
            The clash between Eastern orthodoxy and Western liberalism inevitably led to schism. The first
                    disruption concerned the Cumberland Presbyterians of southern 
                        Kentucky
                     who set up as a separate church in 1810, and it was not until 1906 that they united
                    again with the Presbyterian Church of America.13
            
            A second revolt among the Presbyterians stemmed from about the same general locus and involved some
                    of the same ministers. Having joined with the 
                        Springfield
                     group for a-while, some other revivalist ministers in 1804 wrote what they called the
                    "last will and testament" of the 
                        Springfield
                     presbytery, adopted the name "Christian," and announced henceforth
                    their intention to follow no creed, sectarian or denominational alignment, but rather to take the
                    Bible literally as the basis of their faith and practice." This new group was generally
                    referred to as "Christians," though they were also known as
                    "Stonites" or simply "New Lights."
            Contemporary with the Stonite revolt was a third movement which had its origins in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , a movement led by Thomas and Alexander Campbell, father and son. The arrival in 1809
                    of Alexander, who had been abroad studying at the University of 
                        Glasgow
                    , gave encouragement 
                  
                     11 William W. Sweet, The Presbyterians, 1783-1840 (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 287; James McDonald Miller, Genesis of Western Culture in
                                the Upper Ohio Valley, 1800-1825 (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1938), 120.
                  
                     12 Benjamin W. McDonald, History of the Cumberland
                                Presbyterian Church (
                        Nashville,
                                    Tennessee
                     , 1888), 58.
                  
                     13 Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the American
                            Frontier, 127.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 129; also Stone's Autobiography quoted
                            in James E. Rogers, Cane-Ridge Meeting-House (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1910), 165-166.
               
                     to what came to be called the Restoration
                    Movement—of going back to the original scriptures for their faith.15
                    In 1832, the Stonites and Campbellites, having similar doctrines, and, both united on the idea of
                    restoration, and using commonly the same name of "Christian," found it desirable
                    to form a union under the name of Disciples of Christ. The Disciples have the distinction of being
                    the only denomination created in the West and by a western environment during the period before
                        1830.16
            
            There were many other momentous results stemming from the Great Revival. While its creation of
                    disaffections was particularly noteworthy, nevertheless, its promotion of a union among the
                    Calvinists should also be mentioned. Indeed, it is not surprising to find the Presbyterians and
                    Con-gregationalists effecting a union in the West in 1807. Many New Englanders themselves openly
                    admitted the inadequacy of their decentralized organization to provide for the westward movement, as
                    already noted, and many felt they had their hands full on the 
                        New York
                     and 
                        New England
                     frontiers. In the long run the Congregationalists viewed the union as one of mixed
                    blessings, for by the thirties many New Englanders, beginning to go to the West in large numbers,
                    preferred the more democratic government of the Congregational church. The union operated more
                    effectively in the Northwest than in the Southwest.17
            
            After the War of 1812, the Presbyterians followed the movements of population into the Southwest,
                    perhaps becoming most conspicuous in the churches established in the towns. All and all, the
                    Presbyterian church in the period, 1800 to 1830, for its organization and trained effort, still
                    deserves first place in the contest to subdue the wilderness.
            As for other denominational sects, the Great Revival had an immediate effect of uniting the Baptist
                    church, but a long-range effect of almost hopelessly dividing it into seven different groups, all
                    the way from "Soft-Shell" to "Hard-Shell." Regardless of this
                    fact and also the limitation that they did not have any national organization behind them until
                        
                  
                     15 Miller, Genesis of Western Culture in the Upper
                                    Ohio Valley
                     , 126; Winfred E. Garrison, Religion Follows the Frontier: A History of the Disciples of Christ (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 71-144.
                  
                     16 Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the American
                            Frontier, 214.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 149-151; also consult, Williston Walker, A History of
                                the Congregational Churches in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1894), 318.
               
                     after 1814 when the General Baptist Convention was organized,
                    they grew by leaps and bounds in 
                        Kentucky
                     and spread rapidly and effectively into the Old Northwest and the Old Southwest. By
                    1809, the Baptists ranked next to the Presbyterians in 
                        Ohio
                     including sixty congregations and twenty-five hundred members. Soon they had
                    established themselves along with Methodists in an enviable position in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    .18
            
            As the Presbyterians pre-empted the western field up until the time of the Great Revival, so the
                    Methodists rose to great heights after the revival and particularly after the War of 1812 as the
                    waves of settlers rushed into the Southwest. In this section the sparse settlements were an ideal
                    field for the Methodist type of organization.19 The farmers in the countryside
                    thus largely became Methodists or Baptists, while the planters attended the Presbyterian or
                    Episcopalian churches of the town, slow~though they might be in founding.20 The
                    churches and colleges came very slowly because of the nature of this itinerant organization and
                    because this denomination emphasized more the business of saving souls than founding schools and
                    colleges.
            Lack of time forbids my dealing with the Quakers, the German sects, or with the peculiar sects such
                    as the Shakers, Rappites, or Harmonites. Suffice to say that the frontier offered a free laboratory
                    for many varied religious experiments.
            So much for the church movement before 1830. Inextricably bound up with the religious forces was the
                    crusade for education. This paper would not be complete without some serious attention to this force
                    in early Western life. It was the ministers trained at 
                        Princeton
                     who became the schoolmasters of the Piedmont and who taught the three R's to
                    the children of the backcountry in order that they might recite their catechism and read their
                    Bible. While 
                  
                     18 Beverley W. Bond, The Civilization of the Old
                                Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 472-473.
                  
                     19 Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the American
                            Frontier, 209-210; Sweet, Story of Religions in America, 316-320; idem., Circuit Rider Days in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916).
                  
                     20 Thomas P. Abernethy, Formative Period in 
                                    Alabama
                                
                      (
                        Montgomery, Alabama
                     , 1922); Walter B. Posey, Development of Methodism in the Old Southwest (
                        Tuscaloosa, Alabama
                     , 1933); W. W. Gewehr, "Some Factors in the Expansion
                            of Frontier Methodism," Journal of Religion (
                                Chicago
                            , 1921-), VIII (1929), 98-120.
               
                    
                    
                        Scotland
                     furnished ministers as teachers, nevertheless, the system was soon developed in America
                    of establishing colleges to train ministers, who in turn were expected to establish other colleges,
                    so that each college became a fountainhead of both religion and education for a college farther
                    along the frontier.
            The colleges established by 
                        Princeton
                     graduates as they spread their faith to the frontier were of such quality and number
                    that the parent school well deserves the title "Mother of Colleges." Of the seven
                    colleges that were established in frontier country in the period before 1800 all but two were
                    Presbyterian—the other two being Congregational in origin were, however, of the same
                    Calvinistic faith.21
            
            In the period, 1800 to 1830, the Presbyterian educational advance continued, with most of the effort
                    being concentrated on the West. Nine Presbyterian and other Calvinist colleges were founded on the
                    frontiers of this second early period.22 The only other frontier denominational
                    colleges founded during this entire period of thirty years were 
                        St. Louis
                     University (Catholic) and Episcopalian Kenyon College, at Gam-bier, 
                        Ohio
                    . The latter was the result of forces entirely Western in character. Philander Chase, a
                    Dartmouth graduate and converted Congregationalist, was its founder.
            Such is the record of those which survived; but there are many others which flourished and then
                    withered and died. The story of Transylvania University in 
                        Kentucky
                     which began under Presbyterian auspices but which was at other periods supported by
                    other sects and even by state and other public communities, is perhaps the outstanding example of
                    frontier colleges. Like William and Mary College, it represents the old Virginian culture at its
                    height, with a classical background somewhat modified by the French romantic influences and frontier
                    environment. By 1820 it had risen to such prestige in the country that it was called the "
                        Athens
                     of the West." Southern gentlemen pointed with great pride to this cultural
                        achievement.23
            
            
               
                  21 Donald G. Tewksbury, The Founding of American Colleges and
                            Universities Before the Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1932), compiled from tables on pp. 31-32.
               
                        22
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  23 Robert Davidson, History of the Presbyterian Church in the
                            State of 
                                Kentucky
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1847), 292; Timothy Flint, Recollections of the Last Ten Years (
                            Boston
                        , 1826), 67-68.
            
            
            All in all, the western university movement before 1830 under the lead of the denominational college
                    was a movement in which the West, college for college, actually outnumbered the East. If time
                    allowed, one could also trace the academy or high school movement in the same manner. As you know,
                    many of these academies grew into colleges. Some authorities have contended that the number of
                    colleges and academies led to weakness rather than to strength, but the point is simply that they
                    had to be established in this manner or not at all. The American Education Society in 1823 declared
                    that "The multiplication of Literary Institutions is dreaded by some, as being in their
                    view, unfavorable to the substantial progress of our national literature. But for ourselves we can
                    say that it seems to be no inauspicious omen. We hail it as a token of a spirit in this community
                    that will not rest, till it has brought within the rank of every enterprising youth the means of a
                    liberal education."24
            
            The fact that there was almost a college to every community forming in the West, constituted a
                    contribution in democracy that was highly significant. In 1826 the Reverend Lyman Beecher averred
                    that, "Colleges and schools are truly intellectual manufactories and workshops of the
                    nation, and in their design and results are pre-eminently republican institutions. They break up and
                    diffuse among the people that monopoly of knowledge and mental power which despotic governments
                    accumulate for the purposes of arbitrary rule, and bring to the shelves of the humblest families of
                    the nation a full and fair opportunity of holding competition for the learning, and honor, and
                    wealth, with the ablest and most affluent families … giving thus to the nation the select
                    talents and powers of her entire population."25 They were known as
                    "peoples' colleges," and all were open on equal terms to any who would
                    attend. And as President Philip Lindsley of the University of 
                        Nashville
                     aptly observed in 1837: "Such institutions scattered over the land, at
                    convenient distances from each other, are better adapted to the 
                  
                     24
                            Ninth Annual Report of the American Education Society (
                                Boston
                            , 1823).
                  
                     25 Lyman Beecher, "Appeal for Colleges" in his Plea for the West (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1835), 15.
               
                     habits, wants and circumstances of our widely dispersed and
                    comparatively poor population."26
            
            Inasmuch as social and class distinctions were almost nonexistent in the West, the privilege of
                    higher education came to be regarded as a right of all, which was quite a contrast to the select
                    English college and even to the Eastern college to a lesser degree.27 The
                    curriculum too underwent change in the newer environment to the westward. At first, classical and
                    formal, it became modified to meet the needs of the new country. Such subjects as law, politics,
                    medicine, natural sciences, and trade came to challenge the pre-eminence of religion and the
                    classics.
            The American college in its western democratic environment became America's pride and glory.
                    What the East could not immediately establish because of tradition, the West could more readily
                    adapt and alter. The denominational college gave to the West a set of moral values which could never
                    have been obtained elsewhere. Likewise, it contributed its fair share along with the church towards
                    a higher, law-abiding type of community than could have otherwise developed. Furthermore, these
                    colleges not only trained the religious leadership of this region, but their graduates also became
                    leaders in the political life of their day. In truth these colleges formed a foundation stone of the
                    first order in the Valley of Democracy.
            Thus in conclusion, by 1830, it could not be said that the West was a godless country or a community
                    without a soul, though many 
                        New England
                     intellectuals were sorely concerned. The far-flung frontiers with all their lawlessness
                    had offered a great challenge to the forces of civilization, but the moral and religious forces were
                    triumphing to a greater degree than had been expected. It was a crusade of the first order and the
                    names of the saints, many of whom are now forgotten, lie hidden in the accumulating dust of
                    fast-crumbling records. But their contribution was tremendously important. As one authority has
                    said: "It is safe to say that no group of men exerted such a formative influence upon the
                    destiny of the western people as did these."28 Professor 
                  
                     26 LeRoy J. Halsey (ed.), The Works of Philip
                            Lindsley (3 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1866), I, 404-405.
                  
                     27 Tewksbury, Founding of American Colleges and
                                Universities, 5.
                  
                     28 Miller, Genesis of Western Culture in the Upper
                                    Ohio Valley
                     , 48.
               
                     Beverley Bond has asserted that religion was "one of
                    the chief influences that upheld law and order" in the West.29
                    Professor Ralph L. Rusk has insisted that the force of religion was "the most pervasive
                    cultural influence in the early West."30 Surely, then, the fundamental
                    virtues on which society rests—loyalty, fidelity, honesty, love, and
                    sacrifice— were as common in the West as elsewhere. But what is more significant,
                    "certain desirable social traits, such as hospitality, neighborliness, and generosity, were
                    probably more fully developed there than in the older communities."31
            
            Indeed, religion constituted a crusade of the first order in the planting of civilization across the
                    Appalachians.
            
               
                  29 Bond, Civilization of the Old Northwest, 463-466.
               
                  30 Ralph L. Rusk, The Literature of the Middle Western
                            Frontier (
                            New York
                        , 1925), 38.
               
                  31 Miller, Genesis of Western Culture in the Upper
                                Ohio Valley
                  , 27-28.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Churches and Conscientious Objectors During World War II
            
               Charles B. Hirsch*
            The attitude of the Indiana churches toward the actual support of the conscientious objectors varied
                    from almost complete indifference to the greatest of interest. Those churches which maintained a
                    more or less tolerant attitude of indifference were divided into two groups. The first group
                    included the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, the African Methodist Episcopal church,
                    the First Church of the Nazarene, and the Roman Catholic church. There were no conscientious
                    objectors in the churches of these denominations in Indiana, although on the national level they had
                    a sprinkling in that category. Consequently, there were no problems of financial support, or of
                    church action in favor of or against the stand of conscientious objectors in these religious bodies.
                    Local churches usually handled their own problems if they had any pertaining to this group.1
            
            The second group included the Protestant Episcopal church,2 and the First Church
                    of Christ, Scientist. These religious organizations had conscientious objectors in their
                    congregations in Indiana, but did not recognize their status as such. The latter denomination stated
                    that a Christian Scientist could not be a conscientious objector, if he followed the beliefs of the
                    church. The Christian Scientists made no provision during the war to take care of those in that
                    classification but in 1946 their headquarters made a contribution of three thousand dollars to the
                    National Service Board of Religious Objectors. This amount was to cover any deficit sustained by the
                    historic peace churches because of a few Christian Scientists who were conscientious objectors
                    despite the counsel given by their church.3 While the Protestant 
                  
                     * Charles B. Hirsch, a veteran of World War II, is a
                            graduate student in history at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 See the answers to the Church History Questionnaires for these
                            churches, located in the Archives of the Indiana War History Commission, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana; also Henry P. Dugan, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , to the writer, February 11, 1949, and Robert Gorman, Saint
                            Mary-of–the-Woods, Indiana, to the writer, May 12, 1949.
                  
                     2 Answer to Church History Questionnaire by Reese Thornton of the
                            Protestant Episcopal Church in America, December 4, 1948.
                  
                     3 Answer to Church History Questionnaire by W. D. A. Feaslee of the
                            Church of Christ, Scientist, December 1, 1948.
               
                     Episcopal church officially assumed a "hands
                    off" policy, there was a faction in its membership who sent money and clothing to help
                    their constituents who opposed active participation in the war. Further support was given by the
                    Episcopal Pacifist Fellowship which was a group formed from within the church without official
                    recognition. This group, at a meeting of the National Service Board of Religious Objectors in 1941,
                    stated that they would make every effort to support Episcopal members if the civilian public service
                    program was continued. Another suggestion made by their representative was to seek the establishment
                    of government sponsored camps, provided these were desired by conscientious objectors in preference
                    to church operated camps.4
            
            Other churches in this state in one form or another, recognized the position of the conscientious
                    objector and supported him in his religious stand. The Disciples of Christ,5 the
                    Lutherans, the Baptists, the Methodists, the Evangelical United Brethren,6 the
                    Evangelical and Reformed,7 the Congregational Christian churches, and the
                    Presbyterians believed in freedom of conscience for every individual and urged the
                    government's recognition of the right of conscientious objection.8 A
                    few of these bodies believed that a government should have shared in the financial responsibility
                    with the churches. James A. Crain of the Disciples of Christ, stated at a civilian public service
                    conference, that "inasmuch as the Government had drafted the men and taken them away from
                    their regular occupations, it should share the expense," while J. Franklin Koch of the
                    National Lutheran Council remarked that since the camp program appeared not unlike 
                  
                     4
                            Report of the Proceedings of the Civilian Public Service Conference, held at 
                                    Winona
                                 Lake, Indiana, September 1-3, 1941, published by the National Service
                            Board of Religious Objectors, 14.
                  
                     5 Also known as the Christian Church.
                  
                     6 The United Brethren in Christ joined with the Evangelical Church in
                            November, 1946.
                  
                     7 The Evangelical Synod of North America united with the Reformed
                            Church in the 
                                United States
                             on June 26, 1934.
                  
                     8 See the Church History Questionnaires for these denominations, as
                            well as the Act and Proceedings of the General Synod of the Evangelical and
                                Reformed Church, June 19-26, 1940, p. 265; Statement on the Rights and
                                Duties of the Christian Citizen in the Emergencies of War (Omaha Convention of the
                            United Lutheran Church in America, October 14, 1940); and They Serve Without
                                Weapons (National Service Board for Religious Objectors, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            ).
               
                     the labor camps in Europe, at least the maintenance should be
                    paid by the government, and the churches should likewise approve of government aid.9 The Congregational-Christian group, in addition to other financial support, made available
                    its grounds and buildings at Merom Institute for the establishment of a Friends Civilian Public
                    Service Camp.10 Additional activities of these church bodies were the
                    establishment of a register of those opposed to war which would help to verify their status before
                    the government;11 the inclusion of their names on the church honor roll;12 and the publication of pamphlets and other literature dealing particularly
                    with the status of those classified as IV-E. It was understood that the purpose of these
                    publications was not to make conscientious objectors but to protect them.13
            
            The Methodists and the Church of God assumed the role of peace churches during World War II.1* The latter body had resolved in 1940 that they were fundamentally
                    opposed to any war of aggression, and that they would not bear arms if such a conflict arose.
                    Inasmuch as they were a small group, it was not feasible to sponsor any civilian public service
                    camps of their own, but they did contribute to the support of such camps sponsored by the historic
                    peace churches.15 The Methodists had adopted a similar resolution in the same
                    year, which stated that the "
                        United States
                     should remain out of the present conflicts in both Europe and in the Far
                    East." Furthermore, while it did not make any attempt to bind the consciences of its
                    individual members, it would not "officially endorse, support, or participate in
                        war."18 Following this action, the Methodists were for the first
                    time regarded as a peace church. Their number 
                  
                     9
                            Report of the Proceedings of the Civilian Public Service Conference, 13.
                  
                     10 Answer to Church History Questionnaire by Simon A. Bennett of the
                            Congregational-Christian Churches, Merom, Indiana, December, 1948.
                  
                     11 The Evangelical United Brethren Church and the Lutherans. 12 The Evangelical and Reformed Church.
                  
                     13 The Evangelical and Reformed Church, the Lutherans, and the
                            Evangelical United Brethren.
                  
                     14 This is in addition to the three historic peace churches.
                  
                     15 Answer to Church History Questionnaire by E. F. Adcock of the
                            Church of God, January, 1949.
                  
                     16
                            Doctrines and Discipline of the Methodist Church, 1940 (The Methodist
                            Publishing House, 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1940), 775-777.
               
                     of conscientious objectors in World War I was negligible, but
                    in World War II they outnumbered the Quakers." In 1941, at a meeting of the Methodist
                    Northwest Indiana Conference, a resolution was passed urging the government to supply food,
                    clothing, and shelter to the conscientious objectors.18 Three years later,
                    however, the church reversed its position by a majority of one ministerial vote. The lay vote of 203
                    to 131 in favor of this action also voiced the opinion that "We are well within the
                    Christian position when we assert the necessity of the use of military forces to resist an
                    aggression which would overthrow every right which is held sacred by civilized men
                        …."19
            
            After the new position of the church had been accepted, there was much concern as to whether or not
                    the position of those opposed to war had been undermined. A ruling of the Methodist Judicial
                    Commission stated that the new stand taken by the church did not effect the status of such believers
                    in their denomination. The church would still "ask and claim exemption from all forms of
                    military preparation or service for all conscientious objectors who may be members of the Methodist
                        Church."20 It was further expressed that the civilian public
                    service program should continue not only for the honor of the church, but for the confidence of its
                    youth as well.21 Financial support came not only from local Indiana Methodists,
                    but from members of that faith in the armed services as well.22 In spite of the
                    change in the church's position toward the war, the principles of individual conscience
                    were still recognized.
            The largest single religious body which advocated a non-combatant policy for its members was the
                    Seventh-day Adventists. Over eighty per cent of their men who served in the armed forces were
                    classified as I-A–O.23 Practically all 
                  
                     17 William K. Anderson, "A Fool Speaks Up," Fools for Christ's Sake, a pamphlet published by the Methodist
                            Church.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, June 22, 1941.
                  
                     19 The vote in the ministerial order was 170 to 169 in favor of this
                            reversal. Doctrines and Discipline of the Methodist Church, 575.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 558; and Harold E. Fey, "Methodists Shift Position on
                            War," The Christian Century (
                                Chicago
                            , 1883-), LIX (1944), 624, 630.
                  
                     21 William J. Brown, "Another Fool Adds His Word,"
                                Fools for Christ's Sake.
                  
                     22
                            Fools for Christ's Sake.
                  
                     23 "Conscientious Objectors in World War II," Quarterly Research Survey (
                        Ithaca, New York
                     ,
                            January, 1949), 4.
               
                     of those in service were actually in medical work. The
                    non-combatant position of the Seventh-day Adventists was recognized by President Abraham Lincoln
                    during the Civil War. Since that time, the church has maintained the doctrine of noncombatancy. Its
                    members do not belong to any pacifist groups, nor do they refuse to enter the services of the armed
                    forces. Their only opposition is to the taking of a human life. Prior to World War II, they
                    experienced difficulty in obtaining assignments to the medical service or other non-combatant
                    organizations. In the recent war there was much less difficulty in receiving noncombatant service in
                    the armed forces because the value of this type of service was recognized by military officials. One
                    of their representatives at a congressional hearing in 1940 said, "Seventh-day Adventists
                    as you know are non-combatants. We are not pacifists nor militarists nor conscientious objectors,
                    but non-combatants."24
            
            In order to prepare their members for a noncombatant stand, and to facilitate their recognition by
                    the armed services, a special medical cadet corps training program was organized in 1933. This work
                    was started by Everett N. Dick, professor of history at Union College, 
                        Lincoln
                    , 
                        Nebraska
                    , a Seventh-day Adventist denominational institution.25 Dick, who
                    had served in the 
                        United States
                     Marines, during World War I before becoming a member of this religious group realized
                    the difficulties that would confront his fellow believers in a forthcoming world conflict. Since the
                    Adventists placed great emphasis on medical work, it was decided to train their young men to fit
                    into medical units of the armed forces where their duty would be to save life rather than to destroy
                    it. Throughout the whole training program, the emphasis was placed on co-operation with the
                    government rather than objection to its call to national service.26
            
            After several training programs had been started and proven successful, the denomination adopted the
                    idea on a national scale and called it the Seventh-day Adventists Medical 
                  
                     24
                            Congress Looks at the Conscientious Objectors, published by the National
                            Service Board of Religious Objectors (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , December, 1943), 71.
                  
                     25 Donald H. Hardcastle, "Ready to Serve," Young People (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1890-), LXII (November 29, 1942), 381.
                  
                     26 Everett N. Dick, 
                                Lincoln
                            , 
                                Nebraska
                            , to the writer, January 18, 1949. See also Carlyle B. Haynes,
                            "Conscientious Objection or Conscientious Cooperation," The
                                Sabbath Review and Advent Herald (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1850-), CVXIII, No. 7 (1941), 18.
               
                     Cadet Corps. Their colleges and secondary schools became the
                    centers for this new training program. A training camp was set up at Grand Ledge, 
                        Michigan
                    , in October, 1940. Its purpose was to bring together the Seventh-day Adventist youth
                    from four nearby states, including Indiana, and to train some of these men as officers who would
                    then be able to organize similar units in their home states. Approximately one hundred men from
                    Indiana participated in this training program." Those who took part in the officer training
                    program were for the most part ministers, teachers, and other leaders of the young people's
                    work in the denomination. As a result of this training a unit was organized in Indiana.
            In December, 1940, a medical cadet corps training unit was formed at Indiana Academy, a
                    denominational secondary school, Cicero, Indiana. On Sundays, the students and others who came from
                    all over the state, received from eight to ten hours of special military and medical instruction,
                    which was continued for a period of twenty weeks. A hundred men received noncombatant training in
                    preparation for eventual military service. They furnished their own uniforms and paid for other
                    expenses including tuition and books. Other similar programs followed the initial one. There were
                    fewer trained in subsequent classes due to the fact that the medical training program was
                    incorporated as a regular study in the school curriculum with appropriate course credit. Some
                    Hoosier Seventh-day Adventists received their indoctrination at Emmanuel Missionary College, 
                        Berrien Springs
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , while others participated in the same program in 
                        Chicago
                    . In all, about three hundred and fifty Indianans received this special training.28
            
            The courses of study offered by the medical cadet corps had been approved by the Surgeon General of
                    the 
                        United States
                     Army, and included such subjects as close order drill, litter drill, physical training,
                    first aid, military discipline and courtesy, bivouac and marches, map reading, army regulations and
                    the articles of war.29 In many instances army officers supervised and taught
                    some of the purely military 
                  
                     27 Dick to the writer, January 18, 1949, and A. L. Rulkoetter, Dean of
                            Emmanual Missionary College, 
                                Berrien Springs
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , to the writer, February 1, 1949.
                  
                     28 Dick to the writer, January 18, 1949; and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Star, December 29, 1940.
                  
                     29 Rulkoetter to the writer, February 1, 1949.
               
                     courses. The Army headquarters in 
                        Washington
                     was favorably impressed with this special training program, and as a result, invited
                    three of the leaders of the medical cadet corps to attend a session of the Command and Staff School
                    at 
                        Fort Leavenworth
                     for civilians. This close co-operation with the army not only led to a better
                    understanding of the noncombat-ant position, but it also helped in obtaining church privileges for
                    the Seventh-day Adventist servicemen, who conscientiously observed the seventh day or Saturday as
                    their day of worship.30
            
            Camp pastors were assigned by the Seventh-day Adventist denomination to various sectors of the
                    nation. The duties of these pastors included looking after the spiritual welfare of their fellow
                    believers in the armed forces, and also aiding them in case of any difficulties that might arise, as
                    a result of their religious beliefs. One pastor, in reference to his work, wrote that he had
                    assisted several men at Camp Atter-bury, near 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana. His chief responsibility was to contact the superior officers of the men
                    involved, and straighten out any misunderstandings due to the status of noncombatancy. Duties in the
                    medical units, where the majority of these men served did not generally interfere with the
                    observance of their Sabbath day.
            The pastor said further that while at times it was necessary to go over the heads of the lower
                    officers in order to obtain a proper hearing, he found that the higher he went, the more
                    approachable and understanding were the officials. It was due chiefly to this intercession on the
                    part of the pastor that there were no court-martial cases at Camp Atter-bury among Seventh-day
                    Adventists because of religious beliefs. In most instances the men received passes from sunset
                    Friday night until sunset Saturday night, in order to be free to observe their Sabbath day.31
            
            A firsthand account of these I-A–O's was made by a reporter who had been inducted
                    into the army. In a special article to a newspaper he described his reaction to a non-combatant.
                    "I often wondered what happened to these non-fighting soldiers, how they were treated by
                    other soldiers, how the others felt. Now we have one in the station, a big, 
                  
                     30 Dick to the writer, January 18, 1949.
                  
                     31 P. T. Jackson, a camp pastor, Converse, Indiana, to the writer,
                            January 9, 1949.
               
                     husky fellow. He's a likeable young man and, except
                    for a rather cold, monastic air he looks and acts like anyone else. He wears a uniform, salutes,
                    answers roll call and does routine duty in the medical department, but when it comes to picking up a
                    loaded rifle or pistol and pulling the trigger, his militarism ends abruptly.
            "So much is he like the rest of us, in fact, that I didn't know he objected to war
                    any differently than anyone else until our detachment was sent to Fort Harrison recently for
                    training with arms. Why the army sent him on such a mission is obscure—just one of these
                    things that could happen only in the army.
            "However he came in handy. While the rest of us marched with easy conscience into the lovely
                    summer countryside and blasted away at inoffensive bits of cardboard with our deadly weapons, this
                    man stayed behind as an orderly for the barracks, sort of housekeeper.
            "Furthermore, after we finished firing the revolvers, his was the tedious job of cleaning
                    them—60 in all—and it isn't easy to clean a weapon enough to satisfy
                    an ordnance officer.
            "The most unusual thing about him is that he gets off duty on Saturday, which is Sunday to
                    him, and on Sunday he is available for duty. At Fort Harrison, while the rest of us were at ease on
                    the Sabbath, he cleaned up the entire barracks. On Saturday we cleaned it up while he took off
                        …."32
            
            The Seventh-day Adventist War Service Commission had been organized by the denominational
                    headquarters to look after the needs of its members in service. Pamphlets and leaflets such as Camp Pastors Directory, Sabbath Rulings in Army and Navy, Seventh-day Adventists and
                        Civil Government were published and sent to those in the armed services. Lists of addresses
                    of churches and fellow-believers in foreign countries were also made available to members in
                        uniform.33 When the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars 
                  
                     32 The unidentified newspaper clipping was sent by Arthur Grim, a
                            noncombatant, Cicero, Indiana, to W. A. Nelson, December 8, 1941, from a collection of
                            letters of R. R. Bietz, South 
                        Lancaster,
                                    Massachusetts
                     .
                  
                     33
                            Lake Union Herald, published by the Lake Union Conference of the
                            Seventh-day Adventists (
                                Berrien Springs
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , 1918-), XXXVII (April 10, 1945), 8. These pamphlets and leaflets were
                            published by the denominational headquarters at 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            
                  
               
                     passed resolutions which proposed a class B discharge for
                    I-A–O's, and at the same time would have barred I-A–O's from
                    all veteran's benefits, the Seventh-day Adventists requested the House Military Affairs
                    Committee to allow the bill to die in committee because of its discrimination.34
            
            Other denominations which officially supported the position of noncombatancy were the Pentecostal
                    churches, and the Church of God in Christ. The historic peace churches also had some members who
                    took this position instead of the more absolute stand of no compromise with any type of military
                    service that had been taken by the churches.35
            
            The oldest of the historic peace churches and the one which had the greatest number of conscientious
                    objectors in the civilian public service camps was the Mennonite church. This denomination, however,
                    is only one of a number of ecclesiastical groups within the Mennonite family. The other divisions of
                    the Mennonite family are the Old Order Amish church, the Conservative Amish Mennonite church, the
                    Old Order Mennonites, the General Conference of the Mennonite Church of North America, and the
                    Evangelical Mennonite church. The Mennonite group in Indiana totals almost twelve thousand baptized,
                    adult members.36
            
            In view of the troubled state of world affairs, the Mennonite church in 1937 adopted certain
                    resolutions which set forth its convictions in regard to participation in war and military service.
                    This did not establish a new doctrine but served merely to give a fresh expression of their beliefs
                    of four hundred years endurance. These resolutions pointed out that they could not bear arms nor
                    accept noncombatant service in the armed forces.37 Two years later,
                    representatives of the various groups of the Mennonite body met to discuss 
                  
                     34 Carlyle B. Haynes, "Servicemen," The
                                Sabbath Review and Advent Herald, CXXI, No. 43 (1944), 15, 18. This bill did not go
                            into effect.
                  
                     35
                            The Reporter, published by the National Service Board of Religious
                            Objectors (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1942-?), III (September 15, 1944), 3.
                  
                     36 Guy F. Hershberger of 
                                Goshen
                             College, 
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, to Lynn W. Turner, Director of the Indiana War History Commission, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, December 16, 1948, from a collection of letters in the archives of
                            the Indiana War History Commission. See also the answer to the Church History Questionnaire
                            by Guy F. Hershberger of the Mennonite Church, December 16, 1948.
                  
                     37
                            Peace, War and Military Service, a statement of the position of the
                            Mennonite church.
               
                     the formulation of a plan of action which would be accepted by
                    all the groups. The result of the meeting was the formation of the Mennonite Central Peace Committee
                    which drew up a plan of action for the Mennonites in case of war.38 This was
                    accomplished by September 30, 1939, and presented to the churches. The course of action included the
                    following steps: all those who had to, should register and at the same time state their
                    conscientious objection to war; when called for service, each individual should state his inability
                    to accept induction into the army and at the same time offer himself for certain nonmilitary
                    service; the Mennonite church was to offer to the President a list of certain forms of service which
                    would be acceptable by the church; the church was also to endeavor to secure an arrangement whereby
                    conscientious objectors would be under a civilian board of control; and finally that the fundamental
                    position of the Mennonite church was to be presented to the President as soon as possible.39 Thus, the Mennonites not only claimed exemption for their members from
                    military service, but also recognized the responsibility for providing an alternative for them. This
                    attitude was duplicated by the other peace churches.
            In January, 1942, the Mennonite Central Peace Committee was merged with the Mennonite Central
                    Committee. The latter was an older body and had had twenty years of experience in colonization and
                    foreign relief projects. It also became the operating organization of sixty civilian public service
                    camps, two of which were located in Indiana. One of the new functions of this committee now was to
                    look after the needs of Mennonite conscientious objectors.40 A special
                    educational training program for men in civilian public service camps was prepared and special
                    booklets were published for some of the courses offered. These included history, Bible, first aid,
                    Spanish, current affairs and pacifism, reconstruction, and agriculture which was the most popular.
                    The majority of the instructors were assignees. In regard to education, it should also be mentioned
                    that the Mennonite colleges, such as the one at 
                        Goshen
                    , adopted a plan whereby 
                  
                     38 Guy F. Hershberger, War, Peace and Nonresistance (
                                Scottdale
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1944), 164-166.
                  
                     39 Plan of Action for Mennonites in Case of War, a mimeographed sheet
                            prepared by the Mennonite Central Peace Committee, September 30, 1939.
                  
                     40 Hershberger, War, Peace and Nonresistance,
                        172.
               
                     any assignee to a Mennonite civilian public service camp would
                    be eligible for a month's free tuition for each month of service in camp, provided the
                    individual was accepted by the school. The maximum free tuition to any individual was not to exceed
                    twenty-seven months.41
            
            The Mennonites showed further interest in their conscientious objectors by organizing a pastoral
                    visitation committee.42 The members of this committee were to visit and give
                    spiritual help to their believers in the various camps. This did not include those who, perchance,
                    were in army camps. The pastors also visited those members who were on detached service, for
                    example, those working on farms and in state hospitals. They also appeared before appeal boards,
                    draft boards and courts, in behalf of their members who, because of their convictions, were having
                    trouble with the officials.
            The Church of the Brethren, although a small denomination of not quite two hundred thousand members,
                    is the youngest and the largest of the three historic peace churches. Its membership in Indiana
                    exceeded eighteen thousand and was divided among 112 churches.43 They have no
                    creed except the New Testament. Such principles from the New Testament as peace, temperance,
                    simplicity, and brotherhood have been set up as ideals by the church. During the Civil War period
                    the names of any members who bore arms were taken off the church books. In World War II, a position
                    of tolerance and forebearance was noticed. Anyone going into full military service did so against
                    the advice of the church, but did not lose his church membership. Young men were further advised
                    that noncombatant service within the army was inconsistent with the teachings of the Bible and the
                    church. Noncombatancy could not be reconciled to their historic peace position. Yet, in spite of
                    these church teachings, over ninety per cent of the members available for military 
                  
                     41 Melvin Gingerich, Service for Peace (
                                Akron
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1949), 403.
                  
                     42 O. N. Johns, a camp pastor, 
                        Louisville, Ohio
                     ,
                            March 31, 1949; Olin A. Krehbiel, a Mennonite pastor, Berne, Indiana, February 2, 1949; Eli
                            J. Bontrager, a camp pastor, Shipshewana, Indiana, March 12, 1949; and David A. Yoder, a
                            camp pastor, 
                                Elkhart
                            , Indiana, March 10, 1949.
                  
                     43
                            An Introduction to Friends Civilian Public Service (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1945), 13; and an answer to the Church History Questionnaire by J. H. Mathis
                            of the Church of the Brethren, November 4, 1948.
               
                     service were drafted or volunteered for full military service.
                    A small percentage of this group accepted the status of I-A–0.44
            
            In 1939, the Brethren Service Committee (BSC) was formed with the chief functions of dealing with
                    peace and relief. It approved and suggested certain types of alternate service as being suitable for
                    members of its churches. These services included reclamation and forestry, resettlement of refugees,
                    and farm service.45 Camp pastors were also used by the church to look after the
                    interests of their men not only in civilian public service camps, but also those who were in the
                    armed forces.46 The BSC recognized that the civilian public service program was
                    a limited instrument that was really inadequate for the achievement of all ends sought by pacifists.
                    They considered it as a working compromise between church and state in that the church had submitted
                    to an alternate plan for military service under conscription. The state, in turn, had recognized
                    conscience as a basis of exemption from military service.47
            
            Aims of the civilian public service program were: (1) to provide for individuals and groups
                    conscientiously opposed to war a means of exercising their freedom of conscience and expressing
                    their beliefs through alternate service, (2) to render service which would conserve and develop
                    human and physical resources, (3) to develop and exemplify ways of co-operative, nonviolent, and
                    serviceable community living, and (4) to prepare for the service of reconstruction.48
            
            A poll taken among the Church of the Brethren camps showed that about one-half of the men in these
                    camps were Brethren, and that the majority of the assignees were in their early twenties. The
                    largest group according to occupation and training were those engaged in farming and agricultural
                    work, with the second largest group consisting of those from the professional level, as teachers and
                    musicians. 
                  
                     44 Rufus D. Bowman, The Church of the Brethren and War
                                (1708-1941), (
                                Elgin
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1944), 245, 249; Leslie Eisan, Pathways of Peace (
                                Elgin
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1948), 18n.
                  
                     45 Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 38, 39.
                  
                     46 H. L. Hartsough, a camp pastor, 
                                North Manchester
                            , Indiana, to the writer, December 16, 1948.
                  
                     47
                            General Statement on Civilian Public Service, published by the Brethren
                            Service Committee (
                                Elgin
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1946), 4, 5.
                  
                     48 Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 45.
               
                     The area which furnished the largest number of assignees to the
                    Brethren camps was the east, north central group of states. This included 
                  Illinois, Ohio,
                            Michigan
               , and Indiana. Over one-third of
                    the men in their camps came from this region.49
            
            Realizing the hardships that would face some of its members after they were discharged from camp, the
                    Church of the Brethren formed a dependency council to aid the men until they were able to get on
                    their feet again. An emergency discharge loan fund provided loans up to one hundred dollars, and
                    loans above that sum were also considered. Similar to the Mennonite action, the Church of the
                    Brethren college at 
                        North Manchester
                    , Indiana, along with others provided free tuition for any church member who had served
                    in the civilian public service camps.50
            
            The Quakers, or the Society of Friends, who since their origin in the seventeenth century have
                    adhered to their pacifist tradition, organized the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) in 1917
                    for the purpose of offering to their government any constructive work in which they could
                    conscientiously serve humanity. Along with its many functions, the AFSC also dealt with the civilian
                    public service program as it affected the Friends.51 The Friends stressed the
                    idea that alternate service under conscription was a compromise based on the idea that if war was
                    wrong, so was conscription because it was a part of the whole; that conscription not only wasted
                    men, but that men deteriorated under it; and that if CPS did succeed, it would point the way to a
                    permanent peacetime labor draft. Nevertheless, the Friends also realized that alternate service was
                    an effective witness against war and conscription; that the pacifist could not separate himself from
                    the whole, but had to work alongside, through, and in the government; and finally that the best way
                    to improve the lot of the pacifist was to do a good job at the task assigned. During wartime, the
                    pacifist should emphasize not his rights, but the opportunity to serve. This participation of the
                    AFSC in the CPS program, however, did not imply its approval of conscription. By taking 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., 45.
                  
                     50
                            Brethren Greet Returning Members, a pamphlet (
                                Elgin
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , n.d.), 3, 4.
                  
                     51
                            An Introduction to Friends Civilian Public Service, 16, 24-26.
               
                     part in this program they insisted that it be nonpolitical, and
                    in harmony with their humanitarian views advocated that the camps be open to all, regardless of
                    race, color, or creed.52
            
            Almost one-third of the national membership of the Friends is concentrated in Indiana. It is due to
                    this fact that 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, and not 
                        Philadelphia
                     is sometimes referred to as the 
                        Quaker
                     center of the 
                        United States
                    . In 1942 at the Indiana Yearly Meeting, which is the country's largest,53 the Society of Friends renewed "its sense of fellowship with its
                    young men in CPS camps as well as those who had refused to register for conscription." Full
                    spiritual and financial support was to be given to these men and their families.54 The following year they passed two resolutions of historical significance, one of which
                    stated that "We do not censure Friends who conscientiously take part in the war effort
                    anymore than ourselves for failure to create conditions that might have done much to have avoided
                    this war."55 The peace section of the AFSC estimated that between
                    seventy-five and eighty per cent of the Quakers of draft age went into the army. As a result of this
                    the Friends found more affinity with pacifists of other denominations than they did with those
                    having the opposite view in their own faith. The failure of the individual 
                        Quaker
                     to carry on his pacifist tradition was matched by those of similar views in other
                    denominations.
            The Mennonites, the Church of the Brethren, and the Quakers met together several times after 1919,
                    and expressed their views, work, and experiences. In 1935, at one of their meetings, the name,
                    "Historic Peace Churches" was used 
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 30, 31, 65. There was some difficulty over this last view,
                            especially in camps in the South.
                  
                     53 Stanley High, "100,000 Quakers May Be Right," The Saturday Evening Post (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1821-), CCXII, No. 34 (1940), 14. The two yearly meetings in the area of 
                                Philadelphia
                             have a combined membership of less than 16,000, whereas the Eastern Yearly
                            Meeting in Indiana alone numbers this many.
                  
                     54 Harold E. Fey, "Quakers Meet in War Conference,"
                                The Christian Century (
                                Chicago
                            , 1883-), LIX (1942), 612.
                  
                     55 "Force or Power," Time (
                                Chicago
                            , 1923-), XLII (October 11, 1943), 46. The other resolution dealt with the
                            Fulbright Resolution, "which commits the 
                                United States
                             as favoring the creation of appropriate international machinery with power
                            adequate to establish and maintain a just and lasting peace among the nations, and as
                            favoring participation by the U.S.," as a step forward in the effort to better
                            international relations.
               
                     for the first time.56 The three
                    denominations at this time drew up a statement which covered their peace positions. In case of war,
                    the plan of unified action recommended that each group urge their members to observe the peace
                    position of the particular church. This meant that they would not co-operate in the war effort or
                    the acceptance of any military service. It further stated that these churches should provide proper
                    counseling and spiritual care for conscientious objectors and financial support for their
                    dependents. Two years later, representatives of these sects called on President Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt at the White House and stated their views on war and peace, as well as reasons for their
                    opposition to the bearing of arms.57
            
            When the Burke-Wadsworth Bill58 became a law in September, 1940, the historic
                    peace churches immediately pointed out that the bill contained almost the same provisions for
                    conscientious objectors as did the draft law of 1917. The result of their interest in the matter was
                    a clause, added shortly thereafter, which provided alternate service for conscientious objectors,
                    but no provision was made for the absolutist.59 Ways and means of administering
                    and financing an alternate service program were not mentioned. Questions as to the type of service
                    and assignment procedures were yet to be answered. In order to present a united front and to
                    co-ordinate their activities, the churches organized the National Service Board of Religious
                    Objectors (NSBRO)60 through which they continued further negotiations with
                    government officials. The NSBRO became the official organ not only of the historic peace churches,
                    but also of the other churches who had recognized the position of the conscientious objector.
            A threefold type of service program which included work directly under governmental agencies,
                    financed by the government; camps in conjunction with governmental agencies, 
                  
                     56 Hershberger, War, Peace and Nonresistance, 162.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 164; Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 34.
                  
                     58 The Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 was introduced by
                            Senator Edward R. Burke (
                                Democrat
                            , 
                                Nebraska
                            ) and Representative James W. Wadsworth (
                                Republican
                            , 
                                New York
                            ).
                  
                     59 Hershberger, War, Peace and Nonresistance,
                            166-167.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 168. See also Eisan, Pathways of Peace, 36. The
                            conscription Act of 1917 exempted members of the peace churches from military service but
                            not from noncombatant service.
               
                     but administered by religious agencies, with finances shared by
                    both; and projects financed and administered by the religious agencies, was approved both by the
                    selective service officials and the historic peace churches. When the program was presented to the
                    President, he expressed "instant and aggressive opposition to the plan" without
                    stating his objections. The peace churches had expected a variety of alternatives and financial
                    support from the government, but the outcome was one of two alternatives; either the government or
                    the religious agencies would have to take over the whole responsibility of financing and
                    administering the program for alternate service. This would include all conscientious objectors
                    regardless of their affiliations.
            The agencies of those churches supporting members in class IV-E would meet the wishes of the greatest
                    number of conscientious objectors; ei and, accepting the responsibility, they
                    agreed to finance the program for six months. After the end of the experimental period, a joint
                    meeting of selective service officials and representatives of the church agencies was held at 
                        Winona
                     Lake, Indiana, September, 1941. The entire program was reviewed and thoroughly
                    discussed. Both groups agreed to an extension of time, and to a renewal of the CPS program on a
                    yearly basis. By March, 1946, the historic peace churches had expended six million dollars to
                    administer the CPS program. Contributions from other churches amounted to $1,040,410,
                    whereas the cost of administering the camps for conscientious objectors of these other churches
                    amounted to $2,525,840.62
            
            Much of the money raised by the historic peace churches for the support of the CPS program was
                    through the cash contributions of their members. Instead of purchasing defense bonds and stamps, the
                    church members bought CPS stamps and certificates. The chief difference was that the latter were not
                        redeemable63 but an outright contribution of the individual. Indiana was one
                    of the few states that 
                  
                     61
                            The Origins of Civilian Public Service (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , n.d.), 7,8.
                  
                     62 Hershberger, War, Peace, and Nonresistance,
                            168-169; He Served His Country During the War, a leaflet published by the
                            NSBRO (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , n.d.).
                  
                     63 "Friends CPS Stamps and Certificates," The American Friend (
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1912-), n.s. XXX (1942), 138.
               
                     recognized contributions to CPS as equivalent to the purchase
                    of war bonds.64
            
            Indiana churches, as has been shown, varied in degrees by their attitude toward the conscientious
                    objector. Except in one or two instances where the church body adopted a more or less
                    "hands off" policy, the majority of churches recognized the conscientious
                    convictions of their members and supported them. A greater tolerance toward individual persuasion
                    was shown not only by denominations whose church tenets stipulated opposition to war, but also by
                    those sects whose beliefs included a favorable attitude in regard to participation in armed
                    conflict. Whether their members accepted active military service, noncombatant status, work in the
                    civilian public service camps, or had taken the stand of the absolutist, the churches for the most
                    part continued to keep their names on the church books, and supported them as much as was possible.
                    This support was to be expected, for where else could the person with conscientious convictions look
                    for aid, if not among the religious bodies?
            
               
                  64 "CPS Contributions in Lieu of Defense Bonds," The American Friend, n.s. XXX, 340; and Charles Daniel Brodhead,
                        "Expect 75,000 in Pacifist Camps," in The Christian Century,
                        LIX, 1574. Charles E. Hoover, the Deputy Administrator of the Indiana War Savings Staff stated
                        in a letter that, "We know of the generous contributions your members have made in
                        accordance with the dictates of their conscience. In many communities of Indiana, your people
                        are buying Civilian Public Service Certificates and are thus aiding their
                    nation."
            
         
         
         
            The Editor's Page
            Postmaster General Jesse Donaldson has announced a commemorative stamp to mark the 150th anniversary
                    of the establishment of the Indiana Territory. It will be a blue three-cent stamp, featuring
                    pictures of William Henry Harrison, the first territorial governor, and the first capital building.
                    Since 
                        Vincennes
                     was the first capital of the territory, it has been selected as the city to have the
                    first day sale of this stamp, which will be the first part of July.
            Although William Henry Harrison was appointed governor on May 13, 1800, the government of the new
                    territory was inaugurated by the secretary, John Gibson, who apparently did not arrive until July
                    22, 1800. Six months later Harrison took up his duties. The Territorial Hall, a picture of which
                    will appear on the stamp, has been restored and is still standing in 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            The Indiana Territory originally included what is now Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Wisconsin
               ,
                    all or most of 
                        Michigan
                    , and a part of 
                        Minnesota
                    . This area was reduced by about one-third in 1805 when a bill was passed and became law
                    for the establishment of the 
                        Michigan
                     Territory. Four years later a further reduction was made when an act of separation was
                    signed by President Thomas Jefferson for the formation of the 
                        Illinois
                     Territory. This left the Indiana Territory with boundaries almost identical with the
                    State of Indiana.
            Orders for the attractive first day covers are being taken by Willard Goodson, Ft. Sackville Stamp
                    Club, 924 Scott Street, 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            The Price of Isolation in Northern Indiana, 1830-1860
            
               Leon M. Gordon II*
            As prospective emigrants considered their choices of destination, it was only logical for them to
                    pick those sites which seemed to offer the best opportunities for speedy development. The natural
                    corollary was that unfavorable regions were largely ignored by home seekers while land in more
                    promising locations was still available. Because they suffered by comparison, eleven counties in
                    northern Indiana were largely by-passed in the development of a transportation and communication
                    system, a condition which resulted in slower growth and development. In general they were not far
                    from an important road or canal, but more than proximity was needed for them to benefit from such
                    improvements to the fullest extent. Many of these counties were traversed by rail lines in the
                    fifties, but on the whole the latter did not exert a profound effect before 1860.
            The first group of isolated counties includes 
                        Newton
                    , 
                        Jasper
                    , 
                        Starke
                    , 
                        Pulaski
                    , and 
                        White
                    , which lie in northwestern Indiana between the first row of counties south of the 
                        Michigan
                     line and those through which the Wabash River flows. Bounded
                    immediately on the north by the Kankakee River and occupying geologically the
                    Kankakee Lacustrine Section, this area's development was retarded in a large degree by wet,
                    boggy marsh lands in which ague and fever were common and cultivation was extremely difficult. Most
                    of the land surface is low and level with ridged portions of the sand-covered area in Indiana
                    spreading across the central portions of 
                        Jasper
                     and 
                        Newton counties
                    , southeastern Starke, and much of 
                        Pulaski
                    .1
            
            
               
                  Kosciusko, Lagrange
               , 
                        Steuben
                    , 
                        Noble
                    , 
                        De Kalb
                    , and 
                        Whitley counties
                     in northeastern Indiana north and west of 
                        Allen County
                     comprise the second isolated area and are located geologically in the Steuben Morainal
                    Lake Section characterized by a great mass of morainal deposits and irregular knolls as high as
                    twelve hundred feet with interspersed depressions, 
                  * Leon M. Gordon II is a graduate assistant on the staff of the Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Clyde A. Malott, "The Physiography of Indiana,"
                                Handbook of Indiana Geology (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), 115-116.
               
                     particularly in 
                        Steuben County
                    . Gravel plains cover approximately half of 
                        Lagrange
                    , 
                        northeastern Kosciusko
                    , and 
                        northwestern Noble counties
                    . A number of small lakes dot southeastern 
                        Whitley
                    , 
                        southeastern Noble
                    , 
                        northwestern De Kalb
                    , and 
                        eastern Steuben counties
                    .2
            
            These two sections are separated on the north by 
                        Lake
                    , 
                        Porter
                    , 
                        La Porte
                    , 
                        St. Joseph
                    , and 
                        Elkhart counties
                    , which had the advantage of Lake Michigan and the St.
                        Joseph of Lake Michigan and Elkhart rivers
                    in the creation of a superior transportation system. Moreover, the eleven counties under
                    consideration were also divided by 
                        Cass
                    , 
                        Fulton
                    , 
                        Marshall
                    , and 
                        St. Joseph counties
                     in north central Indiana through which the Michigan Road was built. Thus, the latter
                    tier of counties also had the advantage of much better transportation facilities, which largely
                    explains their more rapid growth. Finally, 
                        Allen County
                    , immediately southeast of the second group of isolated counties, received an invaluable
                    impetus from the Wabash River and the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal that its less fortunate neighbors did not enjoy.
            As indicated above, 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton counties did not greatly benefit from the 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Detroit
                     Road3 or from Lake Michigan, and little notice
                    was taken of them until the 1850's. Boundaries for both were outlined in a state act of
                    February 7, 1835, which applied to all unorganized territory where the Indian title had been
                    extinguished. Three years later 
                        Jasper County
                     was set off with approximately its present limits; but an act of January 29, 1839,
                    relative to the location of the county seat, also provided that 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton counties might be consolidated if such a course seemed wise to the
                    commissioners. They accepted the suggestion, and for twenty years 
                        Newton County
                     lost its identity; however, both units counted only 1,267 residents in the 1840 census,
                    a total which increased to 3,540 by the end of the next decade.4
            
            
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 116-124.
               
                  3 The western end of this road was surveyed by federal officials in 1825,
                        and roughly corresponded to the Great Sauk Trail from 
                            Detroit
                         to 
                            La Porte
                        . From there it more closely followed the shore of Lake
                        Michigan, while the Indian trail passed through 
                            Valparaiso
                         and Dyer, crossed 
                            Illinois
                        , and terminated at 
                            Rock Island
                        . Harry L. Spooner, "The Other End of the Great Sauk Trail," 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society Journal (
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , 1908-), XXIX (1936-1937), maps facing pp. 122 and 124.
               
                  4
                        Laws of Indiana, 1834-1835, General, 46; ibid., 1838-1839,
                        p. 83; Eleventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1890, Population, I, 16.
            
            
            Two centers in what became 
                        Newton County
                     began to attract settlers by the fifties. In April, 1851, Morocco was settled in the
                    southern part of the county, but contained only six or seven houses after two years. For ten miles
                    between Morocco and Bunkum, Illinois, there was nothing but open prairie. The latter town and 
                        Rensselaer
                     in 
                        Jasper County
                     were the nearest post offices until 1854, when 
                        Morocco
                     obtained one on condition that the weekly mail delivery to 
                        Rensselaer
                     be operated on a self-supporting basis.5 An emigrant from 
                        Ross County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in October, 1856, came to Brook, the other important town, through some
                    "pretty wild looking country," and noted a school and five other buildings in the
                    town's two blocks, and a sawmill on the outskirts, which he called the busiest place in
                    town. Because of a low money supply, the general store often accepted produce for goods. Eggs sold
                    for as little as three cents a dozen and butter for five cents a pound.6
            
            There are indications that the growing agitation for division of 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton counties was influenced by speculation in neighboring swamp lands for
                    several years prior to the panic of 1857. To capitalize on these lands, 
                        Indianapolis
                     opportunists marked out 
                        Kankakee County
                     and proposed Cobbtown as the county seat, but the movement died in the panic. Settlers
                    who favored a division for sounder reasons would not be denied, however, and a petition to separate 
                        Newton County
                     from 
                        Jasper
                     circulated at a meeting in 
                        Morocco
                     the summer of 1857. Not until December 8 was the petition filed with the 
                        Jasper County
                     commissioners, who failed to record it for two more years.7
                    Meanwhile, an act of March 5, 1859, allowed new counties to be formed from an area of less than four
                    hundred square miles.8 While the exact 
                  
                     5 John Ade, 
                                
                                    Newton County
                                
                             (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), 30-34.
                  
                     6 Louis H. Hamilton and William Darroch, A Standard
                                History of 
                                    Jasper
                                 and 
                                    Newton Counties
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1916), I, 325-326. Small as Brook was in the fall of 1856, it participated in
                            the first Republican presidential campaign. A current song went as follows: "Old
                            Bullion had a daughter fair, and Jessie was her name. A Rocky Mountain hunter, a-courting
                            her he came. He wooed her, and he won her, and he will make her, by the fates, the lady of
                            the president of these 
                                United States
                            . Chorus: Then come along, make no delay; come from every nation, come from
                                every way. Our land is broad enough, so don't be alarmed; for Uncle Sam is rich
                                enough to give us all a farm." Ibid., 327.
                  
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 170.
                  
                     8
                            Laws of Indiana, 1859, pp. 60-63.
               
                     date is uncertain, 
                        Newton County
                     was organized between March 5 and December 24, 1859. By the end of the deca
                        De Jasper County
                     numbered 4,291 people, and there were 2,360 settlers in 
                        Newton County
                    .9
            
            
               
                        Starke
                     and 
                        Pulaski counties
                     lay to the west of the Michigan Road, and contemporary notice of them was very slight.
                    In fact, only the barest statistics for the former can be given. An act of February 7, 1835, set up
                    its boundaries, but five years later only 149 people were living within them. 
                        Starke County
                     was organized on January 15, 1850, when the population had risen to only 557 residents.
                    Ten years later the county had 2,195 inhabitants.10
            
            
               
                        Pulaski County
                     was also delimitated on February 7, 1835, but lagged far behind surrounding counties in
                    population growth, largely because it lay off the path of any important emigration route. Its
                    inhabitants increased from 561 settlers in 1840 to 5,711 by 1860, when the county was
                        incorporated.11 Land sales at 
                        Winamac
                    , the county seat, attracted Lake and 
                        Newton County
                     settlers as early as October, 1833, and they continued to enter purchases there into
                    the forties. Under the land act of 1820, $1.25 an acre was charged, payable in gold or
                        silver.12 Fifty-seven residents, including two doctors and two merchants,
                    inhabited Winamac in 1840, one year after the government land office was moved there from 
                        La Porte
                    .13
            
            Although it was organized a year earlier than 
                        Pulaski
                    , 
                        White County
                    , immediately north of the row of counties through which the Wabash
                    River flowed, also suffered from retarded development. In 1835 one family took
                    twenty-nine days to reach the county by buggy from 
                        Ohio
                    , but excellent hunting conditions relieved pioneer rigors there through the forties.
                    Deer were especially abundant, although recurrent sieges of ague disrupted hunting activities and
                    further hindered development of the area.14
            
            
               
                  9
                        Ibid., 1861, p. 175; Eleventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1890, Population, I, 16.
               
                  10
                        Laws of Indiana, 1831-1835, General, 46; ibid., 213-214; Eleventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1890, Population, I, 17.
               
                  11
                        Eleventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1890, Population, I, 16.
               
                  12
                        History of 
                                Lake County
                            
                  , 
                            Lake County
                         Historical Association Publication (Gary, Indiana, 1929), X, 78;
                        Ade, 
                            
                                Newton County
                            
                        , 37.
               
                  13 [James W. Lester], 
                            Lake County
                         Old Settler and Historical Association Report (
                            Crown Point
                        , Indiana, 1911), 26; C. W. Cady, The Indiana Annual Register,
                        1845 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1844), 135.
               
                  14 P. A. Battey and Company, Counties of 
                                White
                             and 
                                Pulaski
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1883), 155, 157, 197.
            
            
            Despite the fact that only 4,761 residents were in the county in 1850, settlers and their families
                    utilized the extensive range land to herd cattle in the fifties and sixties. Herds of three hundred
                    were considered the easiest to handle, and each contractor was paid ten to twelve and a half cents a
                    month per head. Within six months each animal gained an average of two hundred to two hundred and
                    fifty pounds, and herds were occasionally kept over the winter for a variable charge that depended
                    on the quality of forage and water supply.15
            
            In 1838 there was a Norwegian "colony" of eleven hundred acres on the
                        Tippecanoe River in 
                        White County
                     settled by two emigrants from Drammen, Norway, who were attracted by fertile grass
                    prairies and flora either unknown or very rare in their native land. A self-appointed propagandist
                    praised the rich soil on which every common crop could be grown, although five yoke of oxen were
                    needed for the first plowing.16
            
            The county seat, 
                        Monticello
                    , which did not contain a single house in 1832, received the most attention. Six years
                    later the first jail, built with two rooms of heavy planking, was completed.17
                    By 1840, 
                        Monticello
                    's inhabitants numbered eleven hundred, including two lawyers, two doctors, and
                    four merchants. Later in the forties, a two-story unplastered frame courthouse, a frame school
                    building, a new dry-goods store, a post office in the harness shop, two wagon shops, a furniture
                    store, two physicians, one undertaker, two blacksmiths, a tailor, three carpenters, the circuit
                    judge, and two cobblers served the town.18 At this time, however, there was
                    neither a drug store, newspaper, railroad, mills, or water power in the county. Because of these
                    deficiencies, Norway, a few miles south of 
                        Monticello
                    , was considered a better trading center than the county seat.19
            
            
               
                  15
                        Eleventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1890, Population, I, 17; W. H. Hammelle (ed.), A
                            Standard History of 
                                White County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1915), I, 259-260. For a good treatment of the cattle industry in Indiana, see
                        Paul W. Gates, "Hoosier Cattle Kings," Indiana Magazine of
                            History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905-), XLIV (1948), 1-24.
               
                  16 Theodore C. Blegen (ed.), Ole Rynning's True
                            Account of America, 1838, Norwegian American Historical Society Publications (3 vols., 
                     Minneapolis,
                                Minnesota
                  , 1926), I, 78-79. For a
                        thorough study of Norwegian emigration to America, see Blegen's work, Norwegian Migration to America (2 vols., 
                            Northfield
                        , 
                            Minnesota
                        , 1931 and 1940).
               
                  17 Hammelle, History of 
                                White County
                            
                  , I, 401, 70-71.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., 412-413; Cady, The Indiana Annual Register, 1845, p.
                        156.
               
                  19 Hammelle, History of 
                                White County
                            
                  , I, 241.
            
            
            Although 
                        Monticello
                     was not on the route of any railroad, canal, or stage line, a few improvements had been
                    made by 1849. In that year, the square, frame, New School Presbyterian church20
                    was completed, two more physicians were practicing, and the stone foundation for a new courthouse
                    was laid.21 Surrounding land was owned in large tracts, some of which included
                    three thousand acres. In August and September of 1849 the camp meeting grounds outside of the town
                    attracted people who came as far as forty miles. They ranged their tents and wagons in a horseshoe
                    and placed the preachers' stand and mourners' bench at the open end.22 Three years later, another doctor, a mill, two blacksmith shops, and an Old School
                    Presbyterian church enlarged the facilities of 
                        Monticello
                    , but nearby Palestine consisted solely of a round log schoolhouse set in the
                        wilderness.23 Despite small settlements at 
                        West Bedford
                     and New Durham, the county population totaled only 8,258 by 1860.24
            
            Only the most meager statistical information relevant to the development of 
                        Kosciusko County
                     is available, because few contemporary observations of its growth were recorded. On
                    February 4, 1836, the General Assembly incorporated it, and four years later 4,170 inhabitants
                    resided there. Over the next two decades the total increased to 13,248, a surprisingly rapid
                        growth.25
            
            
               
                        Lagrange County
                     was incorporated on February 2, 1832, and in 1839 there were six hundred and fifty
                    families and 3,657 inhabitants within the county. The latter figure was probably somewhat high since
                    a year later the federal census recorded 3,664. James Chute, the Presbyterian missionary at 
                  
                     20 The terms "Old School" and "New
                            School" Presbyterian arose from the Exscinding Act of the 1837 Presbyterian General
                            Assembly which separated the two synods of western 
                                New York
                            , the synod of Utica, and the synod of the Western Reserve from ecclesiastical
                            connection with the Presbyterian church. Supporters of the assembly's action became
                            known as the Old School, and adherents of the expelled group were called the New School.
                            Rev. James H. Hotchkin, A History of the Purchase and Settlement of Western 
                                    New York
                                , and of the Rise, Progress, and Present State of the Presbyterian
                            Church (
                                New York
                            , 1848), 147-148.
                  
                     21 David Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1903), 85-97.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 104-107.
                  
                     23 Hammelle, History of 
                                    White County
                                
                     , I, 297-298.
                  
                     24
                            Eleventh 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1890, Population, I, 17.
                  
                     25
                            Laws of Indiana, 1835-1836, General, 55-57; Eleventh 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1890, Population, I, 16.
               
                    
                    
                        Fort Wayne
                    , greatly regretted that a majority of children in 
                        Lagrange County
                     between the ages of five and fifteen attended school less than three months a year or
                    not at all. Despite similar handicaps, the population increased to 11,366 by 1860.26
            
            When 
                        Lagrange County
                     was organized, 
                        Lima
                     became the temporary seat of justice until the General Assembly authorized selection of
                    a permanent site on February 13, 1840. Christopher Cory, the Presbyterian missionary there, observed
                    in January, 1834, that expenses were considerably greater than at his home in 
                        Orange County
                    , 
                        New York
                    . Six beautiful prairies enhanced the area's attractiveness. Despite the
                    general disregard for Sundays, thirteen individuals, many of whom had never before heard a
                    Presbyterian minister, formed Cory's first congregation. Ravages of fever the previous fall
                    and a courthouse planned for the following summer also provoked his comment.27
                    Throughout the year 1834, Cory regretted the intemperance, profanity, Sabbath-breaking, and gambling
                    which were the "crying sins" of the region. By fall bilious fevers and ague had
                    seriously interrupted religious activity at 
                        Lima
                     and other settlements in the area, but he hoped the projected drainage of an extensive
                    mill pond would alleviate the situation. Coupled with his other problems, Cory feared the actions of
                    what he called a "Roman Catholic spy." As for civic affairs, he criticized the
                    courts of justice as exceedingly deficient but noted that anticipation for completion of the
                    courthouse ran high. About twenty other new buildings were soon to be erected.28
            
            During the following year many of the same problems confronted the missionary. Sunday schools were
                    suspended over the winter of 1834-1835, and attendance at all religious events declined. Cory hoped
                    that by spring occupation of the new courthouse would provide a more central and comfortable place
                    of worship. Although he stated once that better citizens were replacing the irreligious element of
                    the community, 
                  
                     26
                            Laws of Indiana, 1831-1832, pp. 110-112; James Chute to Absalom Peters, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , June 13, 1832, American Home Missionary Society manuscript photostats
                            (hereafter referred to as A. H. M. S. MSS photostats), Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana; Eleventh 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1890, Population, I, 16.
                  
                     27
                            Laws of Indiana, 1839-1840, General, 47-48; Christopher Cory to Peters, 
                                Lima
                            , January 23, 1834, A. H. M. S. MSS photostats; F. A. Battey and Company, Counties of 
                                    Lagrange
                                 and Noble, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 152.
                  
                     28 Cory to Peters, 
                                Lima
                            , April 1, July 8, and October 1, 1834, A. H. M. S. MSS photostats.
               
                     he lamented an abundance of religious error and regretted the
                    influx of a few Mormons. Evils resulting from two manufactories of "liquid fire"
                    in the county were soon countered by arrangements to form neighborhood temperance societies in every
                    settlement. As the year 1835 came to an end, Cory blamed the failure of the resident Presbyterians
                    to maintain their financial pledges on sickness the previous fall and partial crop failures for two
                        years.29
            
            Subsequent notices of conditions in other county towns were very slight, although strong memories
                    persisted of the terrible ravages of illness during the winter of 1837-1838, which halted business
                    and incapacitated the majority of the inhabitants. Surprisingly, observations of the permanent
                    county seat, 
                        Lagrange
                    , were quite scarce except for one settler who remembered only a brush heap at the site
                    in 1836.30
            
            Records of early pioneers in 
                        Steuben County
                    , immediately east of 
                        Lagrange
                    , were characterized by complaints against poor roads, sieges of illness, and a scarcity
                    of provisions. An early arrival in 1835 noted only ten white families in the county who used sleds
                    extensively over nearly impassable roads. One emigrant party in August, 1836, cut a wagon road to
                    present 
                        Salem
                     Center, and later one of the men reached the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     land office over an old Indian trail after a two-day trip. This party got its first
                    provisions from Pretty Prairie to the northwest and from 
                        Ohio
                    , while others went to English 
                        Prairie
                     in 
                        La Porte County
                    . A large influx of settlers in 1837 and 1838 were blamed for the scarcity and expense
                    of wheat, but the volume of emigrants resulted in organization of the county on January 18,1837.31
            
            In 1840 there were 2,578 settlers within the county limits, of which two hundred populated 
                        Angola
                    , including four lawyers, two doctors, and three merchants. The severe winter of
                    1842-1843 created a shortage of provisions for both men and animals, and by spring much of the stock
                    had perished. In 1848 or 1849 a mail route was established from 
                        Auburn
                    , 
                        De Kalb County
                    , through 
                        Salem
                     to Orland. Despite very 
                  
                     29 Cory to Peters, 
                                Lima
                            , February 3, April 1, and July 8, 1835; Four Elders to Peters, 
                                Lima
                            , October 29, 1835, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30 Battey, Counties of 
                                    Lagrange
                                 and 
                                    Noble
                                
                     , 151; Inter-State Publishing Company, History of 
                                    Steuben County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 280.
                  
                     31 Inter-State, History of 
                                    Steuben County
                                
                     , 282, 303-305, 288; Laws of Indiana, 1836-1837,
                            General, 56-57.
               
                     extensive illness in the summer and fall of 1858, emigration
                    increased the county population to 10,374 by 1860.32
            
            
               
                        Fremont
                     and Jamestown were other small county settlements that attracted some notice. Besides
                    the 
                        Brookville
                     post office at 
                        Fremont
                     in 1839, the year in which the village was laid out, only six or seven other frame and
                    log cabins and a blacksmith shop a mile and a half from town gave evidence of habitation in the
                        vicinity.33 A family which arrived in the spring of 1835 built the first
                    cabin in Jamestown Township, but because of the prevalent shortage of provisions, they paid two
                    dollars a bushel for wheat and one dollar for corn on English 
                        Prairie
                    . Abundant crops in 1837 gave variety to their diet of potatoes and salt, and surplus
                    wheat was sold at 
                        Adrian
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , for fifty cents a bushel.34
            
            Contemporary descriptions of 
                        Noble County
                    , directly south of 
                        Lagrange
                    , are even scarcer than those of its neighbors. An emigrant to Sparta Township in 1835
                    worked for forty to fifty cents a day and paid one dollar a bushel for corn on 
                        Elkhart
                        Prairie
                    . Although the county was incorporated in 1836, the eastern half was still a dense
                    wilderness covered with hard and soft timber through which few roads passed. Scarcity of money was
                    partly counteracted by using animal skins and selling "black salts," or lye
                    compounds, made from tree ashes. Wild animals abounded in the forests, and domestic stock ran loose
                    until the annual fall round-up. Cattle fed on wild hay or marsh grass. Despite danger from pools of
                    stagnant water which encouraged the spread of malaria, inhabitants of the county totaled 2,702 by
                    1840, and fifty people, including two lawyers and one merchant, resided in 
                        Port Mitchell
                    . The population of 
                        Noble County
                     increased from 7,946 in 1850 to 14,915 by 1860.35
            
            General descriptions of 
                        De Kalb County
                     in the thirties indicate the importance of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as a market and source of supplies and also reflect typical frontier hardships. A
                    settler in 1831, for example, required three and a half days 
                  
                     32
                            Eleventh 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1890, Population, I, 17; Cady, The Indiana Annual
                                Register, 1845, p. 143; Inter-State, History of 
                                    Steuben County
                                
                     , 283-306.
                  
                     33 Inter-State, History of 
                                    Steuben County
                                
                     , 294-295.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 524-525, 281.
                  
                     35 Battey, Counties of 
                                    Lagrange
                                 and 
                                    Noble
                                
                     , 232; Samuel E. Alvord, History of 
                                    Noble County
                                , Indiana (
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, 1902), 130-133; Eleventh 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1890, Population, I, 16; Cady, The Indiana Annual
                                Register, 1845, p. 158.
               
                     to pass through the heavy woods and swamps from western 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Franklin
                     Township. In December, 1833, two men got lost in the woods between Antwerp and the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of the Maumee. They found the river partially frozen but succeeded in crossing it the
                    next morning on a broken tree trunk.36 Another early pioneer a year later took
                    two days for the trip to a 
                        Fort Wayne
                     mill with two bushels of corn and used the frozen stream as the easiest highway. In the
                    summer of 1834 or 1835, the treacherous expanse of wilderness north of the river confused two
                    companions who got lost in a prickly ash swamp and had to cover themselves with foliage for
                    protection from swarms of mosquitoes.37
            
            In the fall of 1836 an early Jackson Township settler paid nine dollars for a barrel of salt at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . After finally securing two bushels of corn, he went five times to the mill nine miles
                    distant before he could get it ground. In the following spring some families paid two dollars a
                    bushel for corn on the northwestern prairies, although it sold for as low as a dollar near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Hazardous travel conditions plagued two newly weds in January, 1837, as they traversed 
                        De Kalb County
                     through wide cottonwood swamps and over narrow, frozen streams. That same winter a
                    young man was paid in produce for clearing heavy oak and elm timber from the river bottom at the
                    rate of one dollar a bushel for potatoes, sixteen cents a pound for pork, and other items in
                        proportion.38 Provisions remained the primary consideration of all settlers
                    in the area, however, and under difficult transport conditions the winter supply of pork was also
                    obtained from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Settlers sometimes secured supplies up the Maumee at the site of Defiance, 
                        Ohio
                    , but the pirogues were difficult to manage in rough water.39
            
            Another potential source of supply was Gilead, 
                        Michigan
                    , but in winter the trip over the prairies, sometimes in driving snow storms, was
                    extremely arduous, and settlers frequently lost the path. One man having made the trip to White
                    Pigeon Prairie in southern 
                        Michigan
                    , obtained fifteen bushels, but the grist cost him forty-five dollars in addition to the
                    initial 
                  
                     36 Inter-State Publishing Company, History of 
                                    De Kalb County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 300-301, 284-285.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 508, 285-286.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 639-640, 286, 955-956.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 641-642.
               
                     cost of the corn. Roads in the southern part of the county were
                    also crude and undeveloped. One man and his father who went from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Auburn
                     in the late thirties were forced to by-pass the worst swamps and erect a crude bridge
                    over a tamarack swamp.40
            
            Such poor supply and transportation facilities were largely responsible for the slower rate of growth
                    in 
                        De Kalb County
                    . Only 1,968 residents inhabited the area in 1840, of which 137 were in 
                        Auburn
                    ; there were also two lawyers, one doctor, and three merchants in that settlement.41
            
            Despite almost unprecedented difficulties even for a frontier region, population in the county
                    gradually increased during the forties. A severe winter in 1842-1843 meant a serious setback, for
                    heavy snows and freezing weather exacted a heavy toll of livestock from lack of forage. In March a
                    freezing rain that encased trees in ice further decreased the cattle's food supply.
                    Nevertheless, the county population increased from 8,251 to 13,880 between 1850 and 1860.42
            
            Of all the settlements in 
                        De Kalb County
                    , Spencerville and its vicinity during the pioneer period were pictured especially well
                    through the letters of Samuel Widney, who later became a county judge. A long list of the books in
                    his library indicated that he had more volumes of good quality than those found in most pioneer
                    homes. While a great many dealt with religion, secular authors like Milton, Homer, and Vergil were
                    represented; in addition, he possessed tracts on geography, history, grammar, and surveying. In
                    November, 1838, Widney wrote that despite a labor shortage due to sickness, crops were generally
                    good: corn and potatoes sold for fifty cents a bushel and wheat for $1.25. Within two
                    years five sawmills and four grist mills had been built within fifteen miles, and his brother was
                    earning $1.50 a day at a sawmill about seven miles distant. Three state roads planned for
                    the immediate vicinity encouraged hopes for better communication facilities.43
            
            
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 759-760, 273.
               
                  41
                        Eleventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1890, Population, I, 16; Cady, The Indiana Annual
                            Register, 1845, p. 158.
               
                  42 Inter-State, History of 
                                De Kalb County
                            
                  , 958-959; Eleventh 
                                United States
                             Census, 1890, Population, I, 16.
               
                  43 Samuel Widney to Samuel Williams, 
                            De Kalb County
                        , August 5, 1837, April 16, and November 20, 1838, MSS in the Samuel Williams
                        Papers, Indiana Historical Society Library.
            
            
            By the following March, despite a scarlet fever epidemic in the winter during which four or five
                    children died, religious activity was encouraging, although the Campbellites had become a source of
                    concern to Widney. A temperance society was strongly supported, and this early settler particularly
                    praised the Yankee element for its support of school activities. Four months later crop prospects
                    were considered good, but Widney blamed a slackening of religious zeal on "the cares and
                    troubles of beginning [life] in the woods."44
            
            Most of the large harvest in 1839 was destroyed by raccoons and squirrels, but Widney's
                    brother sold about one hundred bushels of wheat in the fall at eighty-seven cents a bushel. Widney
                    himself planned to have twenty acres under cultivation by the next spring, and had already built a
                    larger and more comfortable cabin. His first one was so near the river that every spring freshet
                    flooded it. In the spring of 1840 part of the town of Newville had been laid out on land belonging
                    to his brother.45
            
            In October, 1834, the first settler at the site of 
                        Auburn
                     found deer quite scarce, but raccoons and a cache of honey provided food. Wesley Park,
                    the founder of 
                        Auburn
                    , came from 
                        Lima
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , to locate a county seat in February, 1836. After upsetting his canoe in
                        Pigeon River and camping out in four inches of snow, he selected the town
                    site and began laying out the future seat of justice. To obtain provisions from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Park cut a road to Pleasant Lake, and then converted his shanty into a tavern and inn,
                    where on one occasion fifteen found shelter. After the county was organized on January 14, 1837,
                    Park's cabin became the site of all county business. About thirty families in the area by
                    the winter of 1836-1837 made the usual complaints against poor roads, especially since they had to
                    take grain as far as White Pigeon Prairie to have it ground. 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was their principal market.46
            
            The comparatively isolated counties also included 
                        Whitley
                    , which, like White, found itself just north of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, yet was unable to share the latter's advantages to the fullest
                    extent. On February 17, 1838, the General Assembly 
                  
                     44 Widney to Williams, 
                                De Kalb County
                            , March 20 and July 1, 1839, MSS in Williams Papers.
                  
                     45 Widney to Williams, 
                                De Kalb County
                            , December 25, 1839, March 19 and May 7, 1840, and April 28, 1842, MSS in
                            Williams Papers.
                  
                     46
                            Laws of Indiana, 1836-1837, General, 57-58; Inter-State, History of 
                                    De Kalb County
                                
                     , 490, 291-296, 604, 274.
               
                     organized the county, but two years later its population
                    numbered only 1,237. From 1850 to 1860 that total increased from 5,190 to 10,730.47
            
            Having surveyed conditions in the eleven counties which were comparatively isolated from 1830 to
                    1860, at least three general conclusions appear tenable. Probably the most obvious is that pioneer
                    conditions persisted into the fifties largely because of handicaps from the absence of adequate
                    transportation facilities. None of these counties were served by any large navigable river; no
                    important state or national roads passed through them; and railroad lines were either not built to
                    serve them until late in the fifties, or there were no major stations within those counties.
            Secondly, although communication systems thus bypassed these areas, some fared better than others
                    because of proximity to such facilities. As was indicated above, 
                        Jasper
                     and 
                        Newton counties
                     were too far south of the 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Detroit
                     Road to be greatly affected by it. That handicap, not compensated for by any other
                    factor of equal importance, was reflected in the low population totals for the two counties as late
                    as 1860. Of the three isolated counties nearest the Michigan Road, 
                        Kosciusko
                     showed the greatest development between 1830 and 1860. This can be explained partly
                    because it was larger than surrounding units, but in general 
                        Kosciusko
                     represented the major exception to the serious consequences resulting from the lack of
                    transportation facilities. Starke and Pulaski, the other two counties near the Michigan Road, both
                    entered the sixties with low populations. The five isolated counties in the 
                        Allen County
                     area—
                  Lagrange, Steuben
               , 
                        Noble
                    , 
                        De Kalb
                    , and 
                        Whitley
                    , entered the sixties with similar population totals. In part, however, De Kalb was
                    aided by a section of the St. Joseph River which flowed through it. On the
                    whole, all five benefited from the far greater development of 
                        Allen County
                    , without contributing positive influences of their own. 
                        White County
                    , larger in area than both nearby Cass and Carroll, lagged behind them in every census
                    period from 1830 to 1860, again largely because it suffered from the absence of any major
                    communication facility.
            Finally, there are indications that geographical features within the isolated counties contributed to
                    their slow development 
                  
                     47
                            Laws of Indiana, 1837-1838, Local, 408; Eleventh 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1890, Population, I, 17.
               
                     and explained at least in part the fact that means of
                    transportation were slow in coming. Early settlements in 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton counties, for example, were all in the southern part, as far as possible
                    from the Kankakee marshes. Moreover, the first railroad also passed through their extreme southern
                    sections. Similarly, as indicated above, 
                        Starke County
                     was largely covered with Kankakee marsh lands. Numerous complaints against travel
                    difficulties in the six counties north and west of Allen have been noted above, and even when rail
                    lines were opened across 
                        Lagrange
                     and 
                        Steuben
                    , there were no important stations within their bounds. 
                        White County
                     suffered indirectly from failure of the Michigan Road commissioners to route the road
                    through Delphi, which was due to their fear of the swamps north of the town.
         
         
         
            The Julia L. Dumont Club of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana
            
               Julie Le Clerc Knox*
            The Julia L. Dumont Club, one of the oldest existing literary clubs in the state, if not the oldest,
                    was organized in 1886 by Mrs. Estelle Dufour Barker, granddaughter of Jean Daniel Dufour, one of the
                    French-Swiss brothers that founded 
                        Vevay
                     in 1801. The very first literary association of 
                        Switzerland County
                     was formed by Jean Daniel, so it was particularly fitting that his granddaughter should
                    continue to inspire culture, but the club he organized was for men only as at that benighted time
                    men were supposed to have a "corner on brains."
            Mrs. Barker was a woman of unusual intellect. Married to Captain Edwin Barker, an easterner, she
                    spent much of her married life near 
                  Boston, Massachusetts
               , but returned to her girlhood home
                    in the early eighties, when her husband became head clerk on one of the large Ohio
                    River steamers. She bought a pioneer house, which, although not built by the Du-fours,
                    had been occupied through the years by several branches of that family. She remodeled the large
                    edifice, making it one of 
                        Vevay
                    's most attractive residences. And this was the birthplace of the Julia L.
                    Dumont Club.
            Mrs. Barker was a leader in religious, civic, literary and social affairs and an early music teacher
                    of the community. Cousin Estelle had a broad vision of the future when she gathered a few of her
                    daughter's friends together in October 1886, and organized the first woman's
                    literary society in this Congressional District of this literary state. There were only seven
                    charter members of which the writer, the youngest, a school girl, was included, by virtue of the
                    fact that I was always a bookworm and a close relative of Mrs. Barker who was interested that I
                    should grow up in a cultural atmosphere.
            While Mrs. Barker remained in 
                        Vevay
                     her commodious home was the weekly meeting place. The large attic was furnished as a
                    banquet hall and was the scene of many gay as well as profitable evenings. There Mrs. Barker served
                    the famous Yankee dinner with baked clams, imported by special order from 
                        Boston
                    . New names were rapidly added to our nucleus, the dignity of a written constitution was
                    reached, and Mrs. Barker was formally elected president which office she 
                  * Julie Le Clerc Knox is a resident of 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana.
               
                     held as long as she remained in 
                        Vevay
                    . At the instance of Sallie Northcott, long deceased, the motto, "Plus
                    Ultra," suggestive of an intangible hope, was adopted, and has been adhered to ever since,
                    and a bow of orange ribbon was chosen as the insignia. A name was cast about for, and in a spirit of
                    mirth, the mystic symbols, H. & P.L.S., were fixed upon, the hidden significance of which
                    was Hen and Pullets Literary Society. Cousin Estelle, the only matron, was the hen, who had gathered
                    us pullets under her wing. This was our club secret; to divulge which might mean to be hanged
                    "from the battlements at sunrise." Our initiation ritual was to hand the new
                    member a paper with the name in full thereon, and the looks she cast about her were as blank as an
                    envelope without address. The state secret leaked out at the Clam banquet, April 19, 1889, a double
                    anniversary of Cousin Estelle's birthday and Paul Revere's ride, when Miss Em
                    Patton read an original versified history of our society, meant for the ears, only, of the
                    initiated. But the visitors who were present thought the joke too good to keep and proclaimed it
                    from the housetops. Accordingly we deemed it necessary in order to support our increased years and
                    dignity, to change our cradle name to the Woman's Study Club, which after some two decades,
                    was discarded as not being sufficiently specific. Our present title, honoring our famous pioneer
                    educator, Mrs. Julia L. Dumont, was given us by Grace Stepleton.
            For some months after Mrs. Barker and her daughter, Ella, a talented, witty, and beautiful woman,
                    returned to 
                        Massachusetts
                    , we were as sheep without a shepherd, and fell into a state of suspended animation, but
                    in October, 1890, we reorganized in the home of the Misses Hall and elected Mrs. Jenny Van Pelt
                    president, which office she very acceptably filled, off and on, for several years. She invited us to
                    make her home our permanent headquarters, where every Friday night, from seven until ten, the
                    council fires were kindled, and we inhaled knowledge by the cubic inch.
            Mrs. Van Pelt was also a wonderful leader; a woman of unusual intellectual attainments, and
                    consummate tact. She had been a successful teacher before her marriage to a pioneer doctor. We
                    continued to frequent her hospitable home until she moved to 
                  Montgomery, Alabama
               .
            She was succeeded in leadership by her sister-in–law, Mrs. Florence Fiske, who bought her
                    home, and invited us to continue  making it our regular
                    rendezvous. Mrs. Fiske was a witty, vivacious person. She had the first victrola in town, and
                    through it taught us to become classical-music conscious. A stickler for grammatical precision, she
                    made us more careful of our diction by insisting on the importance of the critic's report
                    as a part of our regular program.
            We began our literary studies with Longfellow, Holland, and Hawthorne. Hiawatha was our cradle song.
                    This was followed by Evangeline and Miles Standish, and then we enjoyed Bittersweet, Katrina, Marble
                    Faun, Scarlet Letter, and Brooke Farm. From this rather modest beginning we swung out to more
                    pretentious mental pabulum, and in our sixty-four years we have, so to speak, carried a convincing
                    candle around the whole sky line, and, with a few trifling exceptions, everything in the sky above,
                    the earth below and the waters underneath, has come under our scalpel. Hampered by the small size of
                    the world, we may soon weep, like Alexander, for more fields to conquer.
            In examining our file of programs, I am rather astonished, myself, to look back over the amazing
                    amount of study we did and I mean STUDY. In those beginning years most of us were yet unmarried, and
                    thus free from the responsiblities of motherhood and home making, could devote our intellectual
                    energies to the weekly meetings. When there were still no movies, radio, auto, or telephone, and no
                    other women's organizations except Ladies' Aid and Mite societies, there was
                    plenty of time to study assignments. I really believe I got more from this club than I did from my
                    college courses later. My professors at Indiana University praised our programs, and expressed
                    surprise that a small town could produce such evidence of culture.
            Before we had a town library we bought our own reference books, and when the public library was
                    organized, in 1915, we donated our collection of some sixty-four volumes, the first gift from an
                    organized body.
            In 1892-1893 we began to have printed programs. We've always had a strong leaning towards
                    history and literature, supplemented with mythology, art, science, civics, and music, and
                    we've rather stressed book reviews. Of recent years the systematic arrangement of subjects
                    has often shifted to miscellany and visual entertainment through films. For those who may be
                    interested, a complete list of our scope of study is appended.
            
            We spent two winters studying Shakespeare by dramatic readings with occasional attempts at costuming.
                    One year we concentrated on 
                  London, Paris, New
                    York
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                    , and when afterwards it was my good fortune to visit those cities, the work of that
                    year bore fruit. The time spent on the history and literature of our own country made our journeys
                    more informative, and in my travels abroad the study of many foreign lands prepared me for more
                    enjoyment of what I saw. Art galleries were like meeting old friends I'd been introduced to
                    in the Club.
            When we studied 
                        Germany
                    , Professor C. R. Melcher, Head of the Language Department at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    , lectured on that country where he had spent two years in preparation for his teaching.
                    At another time Mr. Ben Wal-denmaier, of 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , gave us an interesting description of a recent tour of 
                        Germany
                    , 
                        Switzerland
                    , 
                  Italy, France
               , 
                        Holland
                    , and 
                        England
                    . Both gentlemen were native sons, connected with our club through their sisters, the
                    latter also through his wife.
            When we studied Holland, Miss Janet Schenck, of that country, gave us a charming address, attired in
                    native costume, wooden shoes, et al. The daughter of a civil engineer, whose
                    family accompanied him to all parts of the world, she had many vivid experiences to relate of the
                    "far away places with strange sounding names" where she had been. She was brought
                    to us by our member, Elizabeth Brochschlager, a teacher in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Another evening the writer contributed her "two cents worth" in
                    giving her impressions of the land of windmills and dikes.
            One of the two winters we studied South America. Mr. and Mrs. Hal Adkinson of 
                  Orlando, Florida
               , just returned from a comprehensive tour of that country, gave an
                    illustrated lecture, and displayed a wonderful collection of souvenirs. This was a large guest
                    evening at the Schenck mansion on the hill.
            When our year's topic was our Island Possessions, the Ad-kinsons, world travelers, fresh
                    from 
                        Hawaii
                    , again favored us and invited guests with a lecture and an exhibit of moving pictures
                    of that colorful land. Mr. Adkinson was a former citizen of 
                        Vevay
                    .
            Major Sam Woodfill, designated by General Pershing, as the One-man–army of World War I,
                    now a resident of 
                        Vevay
                    , was guest of honor at a patriotic evening at Mrs. Helen  Danglade's, and by request, addressed us and modestly showed
                    his some thirteen or fourteen medals, among which is the Congressional Medal of Honor, the Croix de
                    Guerre, the French legion of Honor decoration, etc., etc.
            Our first appearance before the footlights was early in our career, when we gave a burlesque
                    operetta, "A Dress Rehearsal". Later we presented Goldsmith's
                    "She Stoops to Conquer" before some sixty-five invited guests. The necessary male
                    roles in these first theatricals, were taken by our most daring members, but trousers were sternly
                    taboo. As time went on and some sweethearts and husbands were acquired they were shanghaied into
                    taking these parts. We reached our dramatic peak in the farcical comedy "Arabian
                    Nights". We were drilled by Dwight Smith, a native son and actor, then on vacation. The
                    very satisfactory box-office receipts (this was a public performance in the nearest approach to a
                    theater we had at that time) were due to the fact Mr. Smith was the star, but the rest of the
                    dramatis personae were assured that we shone with at least a little reflected glory. We have never
                    attempted anything so ambitious since but have put on one or two one-act plays for parlor
                    consumption, such as, "When Women Rule," "Who won the
                    Revolution?" etc. In studying "Hoosier School Master" we presented three
                    very clever monologues in which those taking part showed considerable histrionic talent.
            In our earlier years music held a very prominent place on our programs. Professor James Pleasants,
                    returned from several years of musical study in 
                        Germany
                    , had as pupils several of our members, trained pianists, only one of whom remains, Mrs.
                    Hazel Hines. Professor Jimmy was very gracious about furnishing entertainment, but he, also, has
                    passed on. We had a number of vocalists in those days—Mesdames Van Pelt, Fiske, and
                    Misses Ella Barker, Isadora Kessler, Frederica Boernor, and Isabel Melcher (afterwards Mrs. Casad).
                    Later ones were Misses Fannie Shadday, Fannie Culbertson, Hannah Waldenmaier, Jennie Denmann, Mrs.
                    Leila Bledsoe, Mrs. Adelaide Griffith and Mrs. Lela Shadday. Only the two latter are still with us,
                    though Fannie Shadday is an associate member. A few of the girls played the mandolin and guitar.
            In the days when Mrs. Van Pelt was with us she inspired her friend, Miss Caby Froman of Ghent, just
                    across the river in 
                        Kentucky
                    , to form a club in her town. It was at first called the H. & P.L.S. Jr., but
                    later took the name of its  founder. It has been active all
                    these years and recently we held a couple of exchange meetings with it. From it sprang the Eggleston
                    Club of 
                        Vevay
                    , in this way;—Mrs. A. J. Schenck came to our town as a bride, and being of
                    literary mind joined the Ghent organization, as it met in the afternoons, while our club has always
                    held night meetings, and Captain Schenck desired that his new wife spend her evenings with him. As
                    the river was sometimes a barrier, Mrs. Schenck decided to get together an afternoon association.
                    Originally composed of only married women, it gradually expanded to include their daughters and
                    other detached women.
            For some time we held joint annual meetings with the Egglestons—guest evenings with
                    printed programs of fine entertainment. For several years we had both state and district federation,
                    and during that time were awarded the merit flag for civic improvement for three years, and the
                    fourth time when we tied with the Egglestons, we conceded the honor to them as we'd won so
                    often.
            With that club we entertained the District Convention at which time Mrs. Lura Thiebaud, one of our
                    members, was District Chairman. But like the C.C.C. of 
                        Columbus
                    , we finally withdrew from both federations because it restricted our initiative in
                    program planning; we preferred to chart our own course.
            Our first attempt at civic improvement was made in conjunction with the Egglestons to get the pigs
                    and cows "put up." Almost every member of each club went before the Council to
                    plead that the liberty of these obstreperous but necessary creatures be properly restricted. We
                    might as well have been battering at the gates of 
                        Rome
                    , and would not have been surprised if the tobacco spitting solons had called down the
                    fires of Jupiter to shrivel us up for our unbridled audacity in presuming to take a hand in affairs
                    that belonged to men. So, we trailed home like birds with broken wings, but we finally won out and
                    convinced the "city dads" that women's clubs were to be reckoned with,
                    and later prevented the removal of the iron fence around the courthouse lawn.
            With the Egglestons and P.T.A. we arranged a public exhibition of some hundred canvases from the
                    brush of state artists, one of which was the work of our member, Mrs. Nora Dupraz. We sponsored a
                    lecture course or two, contributed to the Chautauqua fund, donated yearly to welfare and health
                    drives, and to the support of a county nurse, and Christmas 
                    tree project. We gave one hundred fifty dollars to the Riley Hospital, and twenty-five dollars to
                    defense work in 1942. Our organization contributes annually from five to twenty-five dollars to each
                    Red Cross, T.B., Polio, Cancer, Salvation Army, and Heart Health drives etc. besides what we give
                    individually.
            For the last ten years we have awarded an annual five dollar prize to the member of the graduating
                    class of the 
                        Vevay
                     High School who has done the best work in both written and spoken English. We gave
                    fifty dollars for the stage curtain of the old gym and fifty dollars recently for blinds used when
                    films are shown. We helped by money and personal service in the project of furnishing food to
                    undernourished children during the depression. We have assisted in civic and patriotic efforts both
                    in peace and war. In an attempt to beautify Market Square we held Arbor Day ceremonies and planted
                    three trees in memory, respectively, of our founder, Mrs. Barker, our early dea ex machina, Mrs. Van
                    Pelt, and our famous, pioneer educator, for whom our organization is named, Mrs. Julia L. Dumont.
            During World War I, in support of food conservation, we refrained from serving the fabled
                    "delicious refreshments." We knitted, made scrapbooks, sent candy and letters to
                    our own boys; subscribed liberally to U.S.O., and collected money and supplies for war sufferers
                    abroad; joined the Red Cross where we rolled bandages etc. Several of our members have officiated as
                    head of the Red Cross where they did yeoman service, and one of them now holds that position. We
                    were the first club in the state to adopt a war orphan—a little French
                    girl—that we supported for three years and from whom we received grateful letters.
                    Together with other clubs we unveiled and dedicated the stone in the courthouse yard to the memory
                    of our county boys who never returned.
            During World War II one of our members was chairman of bond sales for the women's
                    organizations of the county and received state and federal commendation—congratulatory
                    telegrams from state and federal headquarters, and a certificate of Honor—because our
                    county was one of the first to "go over the top" in each drive—total
                    sales were more than five times our quota.
            We have been active in T.B. work, giving unselfish service, one of our members often being at the
                    head. In war time we had a chairman of defense. We have a chairman of Child Welfare, and assist in
                    linen sales for the blind.
            
            Between the World Wars we built a Receiving Vault in our cemetery as at that time we did not yet have
                    our fine funeral home. This building of concrete blocks has a chapel and crypt, and art glass
                    windows. It was completed at a cost of thirty-five hundred dollars which would be about twice as
                    much or more now. This represents individual and united effort—teas, church suppers,
                    apron sales etc. There were generous donations from former members, residing in other places, and
                    from citizens in general. This was accomplished in three years, and June 22nd, 1924, the corner
                    stone was laid with appropriate formal ceremonies, and the building was presented to the county. In
                    recognition of our efforts Mr. James Crozier of 
                        Madison
                    , gave a handsome border of candle pines to the cemetery.
            We have carefully observed our birthday every decade with special ceremonies, the most impressive
                    being our fiftieth and sixtieth, during which the writer, only surviving charter member, was made
                    president. Our Golden Anniversary, the Jubilee year, was opened by a Candle Light Pageant on New
                    Year's Eve at the Baptist church. This was followed by an Art Loan Exhibit at the home of
                    Mrs. Grace Copeland. The members brought out all their treasured heirlooms, which, when added to
                    those of the Copeland home, made the largest and most unique display ever assembled in 
                        Vevay
                    . It was "for free" and was viewed by the Indiana Historical Society
                    then on Pilgrimage, as well as by our own and neighboring communities. Then there was the dinner at
                    the Swiss Inn when Melvin Lostutter, 
                        Columbus
                     editor, son of one of our charter members, as guest speaker, reviewed his novel, High Fever just off the press. Many besides the club and their husbands were in
                    attendance, and "a good time was had by all." This was followed by an open session
                    at the High School gym with Barton Reese Pogue and Frances Sellars as entertainers. The study year
                    closed with a banquet at the president's home, where toasts were given by past presidents
                    present, messages read from those who were non-residents, and tributes rendered to those deceased.
                    The secretary read the names of all who had ever been affiliated with the Club. The season of
                    planned events was climaxed by a summer garden party, when the Club, for the second time, posed for
                    its photograph. The first time we sat for our likeness was in the Barker parlors, our birthplace
                    when the photographer, a pilgrim and a stranger, reversing the usual procedure, "took us
                         in." Even our calendars for the fiftieth year were
                    very special, with gold paper covers and a list of all past presidents and vice presidents.
            During our sixtieth anniversary we had many outstanding affairs, beginning with a
                    Presidents' night at the home of Mrs. Hazel Hines. Many past presidents were there and
                    responded to roll call with the high lights of their term of office. Greetings from former members,
                    scattered from the Atlantic to the Pacific were received. Mrs. Isabella Chittenden read the club
                    history which she had been appointed to give when one of the churches, recognizing the influence
                    clubs wielded, had invited several to present their history to the church audience. But the most
                    impressive occasion of this period was when we entertained some two hundred guests in the High
                    School Auditorium with speeches, toasts, and birthday cake with sixty candles.
            In our long career over the turnpike of letters we have sponsored a variety of entertainment. Among
                    the early gatherings the Egyptian evening at the Grisard home stands out. The back parlor was an
                    Egyptian scene; on one hand was the Temple of Apis, and on the other that of Bubastis, pylons and
                    all. Hieroglyphics, lotus, and scarabs were strongly in evidence, and the refreshments were
                    representative of the "flesh pots" of the land of the Nile.
            One meeting in which fun predominated was the famous cat trial, in which with all solemnity and due
                    course of law, Alice Yonge was condemned by judge and jury for chloroforming a superfluous pussy,
                    but when, using one of its nine lives, it was waiting, as good as new, on her doorstep, the next
                    morning, the judgment was reversed.
            Then there was the Hallowe'en ghost party of which Mrs. Jane Wright was hostess. Zombi
                    dances and ghoulish stories were the order of the evening. The Masque Party and Guess-Who sequel was
                    another program in lighter vein, as was also the one when Mrs. Fiske entertained some two hundred
                    guests at Metropolitan Hall with a program preceding Professor Quiz.
            The Mexican evening at Isabel Melcher's featured papers on our southern neighbors, and an
                    exhibit of Mexican curios, loaned by our travelers, concluding with a luncheon consisting of
                    tamales, chili con came, etc. The menus were decorated by our water color artists.
            
            A meeting with Sara Hall as hostess had as guest speaker, a woman who had lived at an Indian post,
                    and there was a display of Indian arts and crafts—Navajo blankets, basketry, and Hopi
                    pottery, jewelry, etc. Our most recent exhibit was one of the many woven coverlets in our club. An
                    April Fool program at Mrs. Leo Protsman's was in a merry mood with shadow pictures and talk
                    on Shakespeare's Fools and others. With scrapbooks and program files before me I could go
                    on indefinitely for there were many other outstanding affairs.
            These experiences represent many enjoyable and profitable associations, meaning more to us than
                    perhaps we realize. Few of the Old Guard who have shared all these memorable occasions remain. Death
                    has rifled our roster of many of the "intellectual giants" of those days. Our
                    history would not be complete without some mention of the most outstanding not before referred to.
                    Miss Em Patton, our first vice president, inherited her Irish wit from her father, a major in the
                    Civil War, and a graduate of the University of 
                        Dublin
                    . She could dash off clever verse and cariacature at a moment's notice. Miss
                    Bettie Carter who succeeded her, was educated in Catholic schools and was talented in music, art,
                    and literature. She was a daughter of a colonel in the Mexican war, with 
                        Virginia
                     background. Both of these gifted members left to make their home in 
                        California
                    . Miss Ella Parker wrote our club song and other verse, and was one of our early
                    vocalists, as was also Miss Isadora Kessler.
            Miss Hannah Waldenmaier was most versatile; she decorated our invitations, menus, favors, etc. with
                    dainty water color sketches, and original verse; played the guitar and mandolin; furnished original
                    ideas; and was always the "life of the party." She was treasurer of the Vault
                    fund, and her efficiency is recalled with admiration. The vocal duets which she and her inseparable
                    friend, Miss Jennie Demann (more retiring but solidly competent) furnished, are remembered with
                    pleasure. Although Miss Hannah, a primary teacher, used two crutches, that could not cramp her
                    style. She was quite a traveler and on a trip abroad with Miss Jennie and her father, she made her
                    way from 
                        Germany
                     to 
                        England
                     alone.
            Mrs. Lou Protsman Waltz, and her cousin, Miss Lou Grisard (who survives, and lives in 
                        Missouri
                    ) skilled pianists, were affectionately called our "Twolous." They
                    entertained  us with classical music. Mrs. Isabel Melcher Casad,
                    who, although a resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                     for some years, retained her membership till her death, delighted us with her gay
                    repartee and lovely soprano solos. Miss Frederica Boernor, our fourth president, who had an
                    excellent alto, carried on the work of the weather bureau at a time when it was almost considered
                    white magic. Miss Grace Stepleton, popular and gifted high school teacher, was queenly and
                    statesmanlike. Miss Mary E. Hall, expert businesswoman, widely popular and intensely reliable, and
                    her sister Mrs. Adah Rabb furnished gaiety to all occasions. Others who contributed were Mrs. Nora
                    Dupraz with her photographic memory, ready pen, witty expressions, and artistic ability; Miss
                    Frances Culbert-son, popular and able high school instructor, with golden voice and gracious
                    personality; Mrs. Corda Wiseman, whose sprightly wit enlivened our meetings; Miss Alice Yonge,
                    saintly but merry hearted; and Miss Laura Lamson, gentle and self-effacing, serving the public as a
                    teacher and Head of Red Cross, etc., and others. They have been going down the valley very rapidly
                    in the last few years. Our most recent loss was Mrs. Effa M. Danner in August, 1949. One of our most
                    valuable and distinguished members, she had attained wide recognition as local historian and
                    genealogist. Her article on Edward Eggleston in Indiana Magazine of History
                    brought her a letter of commendation from Meredith Nicholson, then our representative in South
                    America. She was made a member of the National Society of Genealogy in 1942 and a Fellow of the
                    Institute of American Genealogy. She was a D.A.R. with several bars, member of the Indiana
                    Historical Society, and charter member of the 
                        Switzerland County
                     Historical Society of which she was the first president, and held the office for twelve
                    or thirteen years. When she resigned, she was made historian for the remainder of her life. Our
                    study of 
                        Switzerland County
                     for the last two years has been based largely on her research work. She also wrote
                    poems. Few of the early members remain. Outstanding among them are Miss Sara Hall, retired teacher,
                    so familiar with club routine that her advice is deferred to, and she is regarded as the Thomas
                    Jefferson of the organization; Miss Ella Waldo, relied on for scholarly book reviews; Mrs. Nell
                    Waldenmaier, although long a resident of 
                        Washington, D.C.
                     is still claimed as one of us. She is a recognized genealogist and  compiler of several books along that line. Mrs. Mary Van Pelt Waldo,
                    our clever versifier, who occasionally sends, from her 
                        Virginia
                     home, rhymed history of our early meetings; Miss Annette Danglade, who has a flair for
                    antiques and local history; and Mrs. Kate Benedict, one of our most faithful attendants, are being
                    rapidly pushed up our chronologically arranged roster to the status of the Old Guard to fill
                    vacancies left by those who have joined the Upper Circle.
            It is impossible to mention all who should be spoken of. As this is chiefly ancient history there has
                    been only indirect allusion to the vigorous and able younger women now taking over and carrying on
                    the torch lighted so long ago.
            Our members are teachers, retired and otherwise, businesswomen, civic workers, mothers, homemakers,
                    musicians, artists, an editor, writers of both prose and poetry, contributors to newspapers and
                    magazines, and authors of a couple of books. We have representation in "Women of
                    Indiana," in both Eugene Field and Mark Twain honorary societies, and in the
                    Poets' Corner, Inc., a state affair where we have won several first prizes. All but a few
                    are members of the Eastern Star and several belong to the D.A.R. One or two have served on
                    committees of the Indiana Historical Society and contributed articles to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History. All the officers, but one, of the county historical society belong to
                    the Julia L. Dumont Club of which it is largely composed. At least three are members of Delta Kappa
                    Gamma. The Penholders, a creative writing group, consists chiefly of our members. We are represented
                    on the local library board and staff, in the Tri Kappa, athletic and home economic clubs. The
                    president of the latter is one of us. Very few have not traveled extensively and one or two might be
                    considered world travelers. More and more are becoming college graduates, all are keenly alert to
                    self improvement. We have been called on to serve on local and federal juries and election boards.
                    All denominations are represented, but the Baptists predominate. The pioneer woman physician, Dr.
                    Hannah C. Rous, was a wonderfully important member until her death.
            The historic home of our Mrs. Jane Wright, and an interview with her, found place in Frederick
                    Simpich's "So much happens along the 
                        Ohio
                    ," in the February, 1950, National Geographic.
            
            Our membership is limited to thirty-six. We have seven associate members, and two non-residents. Our
                    meetings are fortnightly from October until May. The club flower is a chrysanthemum, and the club
                    color orange. Officers are chosen for one year and cannot succeed themselves without an intervening
                    year. Our present officers are: President, Miss Gertrude Wahl; Vice-president, Miss Julie Le Clerc
                    Knox; Recording Secretary, Mrs. Lovina Bakes; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Lela Shadday; Treasurer,
                    Mrs. Olive Du-four Trafelet; and Keeper of Records, Mrs. Blanche Ricketts. Although basically a
                    cultural organization, we have tried to do our part in civic and patriotic endeavor.
            In conclusion may we say, without being accused of "Russianizing" that we look back
                    on the cultural and civic growth of our community with some satisfaction, and in "our
                    artless Japanese way," claim of it that we've "had a great
                    part?"
            Subjects studied by the Julia L. Dumont Club from 1886-1950
            
               Hiawatha, Evangeline, Miles Standish, Bittersweet, Katrina, Marble Faun, Scarlet Letter and
                        Brook Farm.
               History, literature and art of U.S.
               Two winters — English History and literature to Tennyson.
               Women of the French Salons— actors and actresses.
               Mozart and Beethoven, Goethe, Hugo, Ruskin and Browning.
               French history and literature. 
               American literature of historical significance.
               
                  
                            Egypt
                         — its history, mythology, and literature bearing on it.
               Asiatic Nations — Chaldea, Assyria, Media, Babylonia, Phoenicia, Parthia, Persia
                        and Jewish history.
               Heine, Mendelssohn, the Rubaiyat —the Rothschilds, Disraeli.
               
                  
                            Greece
                        —Illiad, Odyssey, etc.
               
                  
                            Rome
                        —Quo Vadis, Ben Hur.
               Byzantine Empire and five Shakespeare dramas.
               Shakespeare.
               19th century English literature, artists, current events.
               Mexico and book reviews.
               History and literature of 
                            Germany
                         — Wagner, Schubert, Heine.
               History and literature of Norway and Sweden.
               
                  
                            Japan
                        , ornithology, and book reviews.
               Development of the Opera.
               Famous Cities and Musical history.
               Geography, history and literature of Indiana.
               Shakespeare—another year.
               
                  
                     London, Paris, New York
                   and 
                            New Orleans
                        .
               English literature from Beowulf to Burns. Famous artists and their works.
               19th century English Novelists.
               Tennyson. Women-past, present, future. Civics.
               
                  
                            Russia
                        , 
                            Poland
                         …. Music.
               Two years on the Bible. Indiana Current events.
               
               
                  
                            Brazil
                        . Civics. Miscellany.
               History and literature of 
                            Ireland
                        . 
               Travel. Poetry of the Bible.
               History and literature of 
                            Scotland
                        . Musical composers.
               Modern Russia. Bird lore. Art.
               One act plays.
               American history, literature and music.
               
                  
                            Denmark
                        . Miscellany.
               
                  
                            Canada
                        . Historic beauty spots of Indiana.
               South America. Mountain people of our south. Noted women.
               Our Island Possessions. Indian Folk Lore.
               Holland. Better Speech. Contemporary rulers.
               Early American history thru book reviews. American achievements. Science. Two consecutive yrs.
               American Heroes and shrines. Historic Homes. Famous Cities. Colleges and cathedrals.
               
                  
                            Australia
                        , Alaska, Art. Modern science.
               Persia. Art. Modern science.
               Patriotism. Geography. Current events. Miscellany.
               Famous Cities. Oceanology. Music. Current events.
               South America. 
                            Hawaii
                        . Miscellany.
               Program arranged to individual choice each evening.
               Africa.
               
                  
                            Switzerland County
                        . Famous Cities. Scientific Advancement.
               
                  
                            Switzerland County
                        … a second year.
               Federation topics during our federation were used.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            The Minutes of the Edgeworthalean Society, 1840-1844
            
               Edited by Lawrence Wheeler*
            In the winter of 1840-1841, thirty-three women of 
                        Monroe County
                     joined together in the organization of a club which met weekly so that the members
                    might ponder the argumentative questions of the day. The original minute book is in the archives of
                    Indiana University. The final entry is dated June 14, 1844.
            The organization adopted a constitution and by-laws and carried on its business under the rules of
                    order as they existed in the early nineteenth century. In the words of the first president, Mrs. M.
                    E. Hughs (Hughes), similar organizations had been limited to the "other sex." At
                    least three such organizations for men had existed in Indiana Seminary; Henodelphisterian, prior to
                    1828; Athenian, 1830; and Philo-mathean, 1831.
            At their meeting on January 22,1841, the women adopted the name "Edgeworthalean" in
                    honor of Maria Edgeworth, English author, whose works had been issued in many editions. She had been
                    born in 1767 and died eight years after the 
                        Bloomington
                     club was organized.
            The Minerva club, which was organized on September 20, 1859, at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, has long claimed to be the first women's club in America to have a
                    written constitution and by-laws. Miss Constance Owen Fauntleroy and eleven other women were the
                    charter members of Minerva. As with the Edgeworthalean Society, the constitution and by-laws of the
                    Minerva Society have been preserved.
            Many of the activities of the Edgeworthalean Society were similar to those of the Athenian and
                    Philomathean societies. The men met on Friday evenings; so did the Edge-worthaleans. The officers
                    who criticized the literary activities 
                  * Lawrence Wheeler, Professor of Journalism and Director of Communications at
                            Indiana University, prepared the material concerning the Edgeworthalean Society. His
                            attention was called to the Minute Book in the Archives by Mrs. Mary B. Craig, Archivist in
                            the office of President Herman B Wells. Dr. William Lowe Bryan, president emeritus of
                            Indiana University, could not add additional material toward the identification of the
                            members of the Society.
               
                     were similar in title and duties. Fines for absence and for
                    being unprepared to take part in the programs of the clubs were alike.
            Numbered among the Edgeworthalean members were young ladies and women from the 
                        Monroe County
                     families whose names appear frequently in the history of early Indiana. A list of the
                    members follows: 
                  Miss Mary Maxwell Alexander, charter member, born December 10, 1822; died September 26,
                            1866.
                  Mrs. M. W. Barnes, charter member.
                  Miss Margaret Anderson Batterton, born October 7, 1821; died December 7, 1915; became
                            member, May 21, 1841; became honorary member, May 16, 1844; married Samuel Forbes Dunn,
                            March 30, 1848.
                  Miss E. Baugh.
                  Miss M. L. Bollman.
                  Miss C. Bowland, or Borland or P. Borland, became member August 13, 1841; honorable
                            dismissal, December 13, 1842.
                  Miss Mary A. Buskirk.
                  Miss V. V. Buskirk, or V. Buskirk.
                  Miss Elizabeth Deming, became honorary member June 14, 1844.
                  Miss S. Jane Dunning, charter member.
                  Mrs. M. Forbes, became honorary member December 23, 1842, "When she removed
                            North."
                  Mrs. M. L. Hinkson, or Hinkston or Hinson, charter member.
                  Miss Louisa Jane Howe, born May 23, 1819; died July 20, 1907; married James Darwin
                            Maxwell, July 6, 1843.
                  Mrs. M. Elizabeth Hughs, or Hughes, charter member. Died January 6, 1842. Mother of Miss
                            L. Hughs and the Reverend Levi Hughes.
                  Miss J. F. Hughes, charter member, honorably dismissed, September 3, 1841. Became Mrs. J.
                            F. Ringgold.
                  Miss L. Hughs, or Hughes, charter member.
                  Miss E. J. Kirk.
                  Miss E. Livingston, or A. E. Livingston, became member on August 13, 1841, and honorary
                            member on March 25, 1842.
                  Miss M. E. Lowe.
                  Miss A. McDonald.
                  Mrs. McGee, became honorary member, May 16, 1844.
                  Mrs. Mary A. Martineau, became member on August 26, 1842, disowned on December 30, 1842,
                            "having missed 4 meetings, being warned, still neglects her duty."
                  Miss J. L. May, charter member.
                  Miss Amanda Maxwell, charter member, born August 9, 1822; died December 20, 1914. Married
                            the Reverend Levi Hughes, October 11, 1848. Together they established the First Presbyterian
                            Church of 
                        Minneapolis, Minnesota
                     .
                  Miss Margaret Anderson Maxwell, charter member, born January 1, 1820 (the first white
                            child to be born in 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana); died June 29, 1888. Married the Reverend W. Y. Allen. Together they
                            founded the first Presbyterian churches in 
                                Houston
                             and 
                                Austin
                            , 
                                Texas
                            .
                  
                  Mrs. C. Morrison, charter member.
                  Miss H. E. Parks.
                  Miss R. L. Rogers, or R. Lu. Rogers, charter member.
                  Miss J. Severs.
                  Miss M. Sleeper, became member on August 12, 1842.
                  Miss C. Swearingen, became member on June 2, 1842. Died July 29, 1843.
                  Miss M. Venable.
                  Miss S. Williams.
               
            
            CONSTITUTION 
                        Article 1st. This society shall be called Edgeworthalean.
                        Art. 2 The officers of this society shall be a President, Vice President Secretary
                            Treasuress, two Critics, a librarian, and a Censoress all of whom shall be chosen by the
                            voice of the whole society and hold their offices 3 months.
                        Art. 3rd It shall be the duty of the President upon entering the duties of her office to
                            deliver an inaugural address which shall be recorded unless objected to by two-thirds of the
                            whole society, to preside in all regular meetings, to decide all questions of order, to
                            appoint committees, to impose all fines not otherwise provided for and require of each
                            member a strict observance of the provisions of this constitution.
                        Art. 4th. It shall be the duty of the Vice President in the absence of the Pres. to discharge
                            all the duties pertaining to that office.
                        Art. 5th It shall be the duty of the Secretary to record all the proceedings of the society
                            and furnish the treasuress with a list of the fines imposed during her term of office.
                        Article 6th. It shall be the duty of the treasuress to receive all moneys paid to the
                            society, collect all debts & report the state of the funds at the expiration of her
                            term of office.
                        Art. 7th. It shall be the duty of the two critics to inspect compositions, write criticisms
                            on them pointing out the beauties and defects, and correcting the errors which shall be read
                            before the society and delivered to the members on whose compositions they were written.
                        Art. 8th. It shall be the duty of the Censoress to supervise the general moral character of
                            the society, admonish all offenders, and see that the character of this institution be not
                            injured by the disorderly conduct of any of its members.
                        Art 9th. The exercises of the society shall consist of recitations, compositions
                            argumentations, Reading writing diction, analysing sentences or any such exercises as may be
                            found to be conducive to the improvement of its members.
                        Article 10th. It shall be the duty of the officers to divide the members into classes and
                            assign to each class its respective duties.
                        Article 11th. No person shall be entitled to membership without paying a fee of [ ] cts but
                            inability to comply with this requisition shall not debar the worthy.
                        
                        Art. 12th. Any person desiring membership shall make application in writing accompanied by
                            the names of 2 members who can state that they believe the applicant is influenced by a
                            desire for improvement and that her admittance would be beneficial to herself and the
                            society
                        Art. 13 One negative vote shall be sufficient to debar membership, provided objector can give
                            good grounds for her opposition to a select committee appointed by the officers.
                        Art. 14 A library of select books shall be procured as soon as circumstances will permit, and
                            all moneys not otherwise appropriated shall be expended for this purpose
                        Art. 15th. Should this society ever be dissolved its library and other effects shall descend
                            to any other society of ladies of this town that will adopt the leading features of this
                            constitution.
                        Art 16th. This constitution shall be subject to amendment or alteration, but no amendment or
                            alteration shall take place without a concurrence of two thirds of all the members in
                            regular attendance.
                    
            
            BYE LAWS 
                        Article 1st The President shall take the chair precisely at the hour to which the society
                            shall adjourn and call the house to order
                        Art 2n. The secretary shall make out a roll of the names of the members which shall be called
                            at the opening of every meeting, and every member who is absent shall pay a fine of GVi, cts unless a sufficient excuse be rendered, or leave of absence be
                            granted by the President.
                        Art 3rd. Every member who shall fail to discharge any of the duties required by the
                            constitution shall be fined 6% cts.
                        Article 4th. Every officer who shall fail to discharge any of the duties required by the constitution and these Buy Laws shall be fined 12% cts.
                        Art. 5th. No member shall be permitted to speak longer than 10 minutes or oftener than twice
                            on the same subject unless permitted by the President.
                        Art. 6th. The President may permit any member to participate in the debate provided those
                            whose duty it is to debate shall not object.
                        Art. 7th. Every member shall have the privilege to make critical remarks on any of the
                            exercises of the society.
                        Art. 8th. It shall be the duty of the President to decide the question debated, on the
                            strength of argument offered by the affirmative & negative and take the vote of the
                            society on the merits of the question.
                        Arti. 9th. The classes in their exercises shall rotate that is the 2nd shall take the place
                            of the 1st, the 3rd of the 2nd; the 4th of the 3rd, &
                        Art. 10th. If any member shall absent herself voluntarily from 4 regular meetings or refuse
                            to conform to the rules & regulations of the society it shall be deemed sufficient
                            cause to disown her
                        Art. 12th. No member shall be allowed to leave her seat during the exercises of the society
                            without permission from the President; and permission should not be requested when any
                            member is on the floor.
                        Art. 13th. The President may call any person to her chair and participate in debates, or
                            motions and resolutions.
                        
                        Art. 14th The Librarian shall take chargé of the library and loan the books to the
                            members.
                        Article 15th. No member shall be allowed to keep a book longer than two weeks and any member
                            abusing a book shall be fined at the discretion of the Librarian
                        Article 16th. The President is at liberty to grant optional attendance to those members
                            living at a distance from town
                        Article 17th Any member of leaving the society shall be entitled to a certificate signed by
                            the President, Secretary, and Governess; provided such a member shall have sustained a
                            respectable standing, paid all debts & fines, and provided also that she shall have
                            been a regular member for at least 6 months.
                    
            
            The Articles 18 and 19 are added, each in a different hand. 
                        Art. 18th No person shall attend any meeting of this society as a spectator, unless the
                            consent of its members be obtained before-hand. Article 19th. Leave of absence may be
                            granted to any member so requesting either by voice or letter, provided a majority of the
                            Society deem the reason stated sufficient.
                    
            
            Once the Constitution and By-Laws had been set down in the Minute Book the record of the meetings of
                    the Society start abruptly with Friday, January 8, 1841. There had evidently been an earlier meeting
                    for the unidentified secretary notes "the society met pursuant to adjournment, Miss H. not
                    being present, Mrs. Hughs was called to preside protein. The composition class performed with credit
                    to its members and the criticism was both appropriate and encouraging. The meeting then adjourned to
                    meet the following Friday afternoon."
            Miss L. Hughs was again absent on January 15. Mrs. M. E. Hughs (Hughes) was elected president
                    unanimously. The secretary noted the fact and said "it is expected she will deliver an
                    inaugural address accordingly. The several classes performed their duties with much credit to
                    themselves and to the young ladies of the county. It is to be hoped that the embarrassment which is
                    still consequent on our exercises may soon be done away or exchanged for that modest freedom which
                    is necessary to the proper criticism of all the exercises and to the right improvement of the
                    members."
            A week later the inaugural address was given. It set the tone of the work of the Edgeworthaleans and
                    emphasized the pioneer character of the Society. Mrs. Hughs said: 
                    
                        Address
                        Ladies, Fellow-members of the Edgeworthalean Society,
                        I appear before you on the present occasion with mingled feelings of gratitude for the honor
                            which you have been pleased to confer upon me, and a conviction of my own inability to
                            discharge properly the duties assigned me. For the confidence manifested in electing me to
                            preside over your meetings, you will please accept my accept my sincere
                            thanks. Permit me likewise to bespeak what I shall certainly need— your kind
                            indulgence towards the many errors which must necessarily grow out of my entire ignorance of
                            the rules and regulations pertaining to the office.
                        Although societies similar to character to the one which we are now engaged
                            in forming have long existed in places not very distant, yet, in our own immediate community
                            they have hitherto been confined exclusively to the other sex. As we may therefore be
                            considered in some degree innavators in the established order of things it
                            may be necessary and proper to state our intentions in forming this organsociation.
                  
                        Our object is the cultivation and improvement of the mind; and to effect this we have adopted
                            such exercises and regulations as other socities of the same nature have found most
                            conducive to the same end.
                        In the progress of society the belief has been gradually gaining ground that the station
                            assigned to women in the social scheme is one of much greater importance than it has
                            hitherto been considered and that her position in the various relations of daughter wife
                            mother mistress of a family and the acknowledged arbitress of the rules which regulate
                            social intercourse, gives her an influence which may be powerfully wielded either for good
                            or for evil. To enable her therefore to fulfil her destiny with credit and happiness to
                            herself, advantage to others philanthropists now deem it necessary to give her the aids of a
                            solid and useful education. We gather from history that in the earlier ages of the world
                            when all else was made to yield to physical superiority, the lot of woman was hard and her
                            state degraded: she was esteemed suffciently honoured in being made the household drudge and
                            slave of man. At a later period when the wild and romantic spirit of chivalry pervaded
                            nearly all the nations of the Earth, the caprice of her masters wrought an astonishing
                            change in her condition, and she found herself elevated to the rank of an earthly divinity
                            — a godess worthy the adoration of the other sex: since that time the benign
                            influence of Christianity has been silently working out yet another [illegible] in her
                            destiny; and it has now grown quite customary to view her as a rational being, intended by
                            her Creator to perform a useful and respectable part, and endowed by Him with the faculties
                            necessary to enable her to fulfil the end of her being. The two former theories however are
                            not entirely exploded and while some contend sturdily for the puppet system, others are to
                            be found, who would fain set her down in their list of chattels. But to return to the
                            subject more immediately before us.
                        When discussing the propriety of our present undertakings it has been objected by many that a
                            part at least of the exercises customary in such societies was too masculine to be proper
                            for females and was  calculated to dim the lustre of
                            that modest reserve which is justly considered the sexes best ornament
                        However much I may prize the jewel in question or respect the honest prejudices of those who
                            think thus, I do not participate in their fears as to the result as this would to me wear
                            the appearance of making a woman's modesty, and propriety of deportment dependent
                            on her ignorance for their preservation. There may indeed be a false modesty which is placed
                            in the above predicament; and perhaps the true and false (like the sublime & the
                            ridiculous) may be but a single step assunder, but if it be so, is it not an additional
                            reason for strengthening all her powers of mind, that she may the more readily discriminate
                            between the two?
                        With the notice of one more objection, I will now conclude. It is agreed by many that mental
                            culture unfits a woman for the performance of these domestic employments which make a part
                            of her daily duties. That this pursuit like every thing good under the sun, may be abused
                            perverted cannot be denied; but surely when properly directed it has no such tendency and I
                            trust I do not misrepresent the sentiments of my fellowmembers when I assert that we
                            advocate it because we believe it to be eminently calculated to strengthen and perfect the
                            sex in the discharge of their duties, thereby rendering home the seat of happiness.
                    
            
            On January 29, the first subject for debate was raised: "Is there more pleasure in pursuit
                    or in possession?" Two weeks later a special assignment was given to Mrs. Barnes and Miss
                    Howe to write a dialogue, if possible. And, on February 26, the members agreed on a method whereby
                    the members would serve in rotation in the various classes: Reading, Composition, Recitations and
                    Debating. A week later the debate subject was: "Is wealth productive generally of the most
                    happiness or misery to mankind?" When the decision was made on March 12 it was agreed that
                    wealth had brought more misery than happiness. That decision having been made, the Society buckled
                    down to the question: "Is it important that ladies study the dead languages?" The
                    secretary never did record the answer.
            On May 21 the Society discussed "whether Observation or Reading most improved the
                    Mind" and agreed that Observation was most important. It then turned to another question:
                    "Which is the Most Important, Male or Female Education?" On the 28th, when the
                    arguments were given the club voted that, for strength of argument, Male Education won but that, on
                    the merits of the case, Female Education was overwhelmingly important.
            June 4 came and J.F. Hughs was "unpunctual" but on  roll call she gave a sufficient reason and was excused. Miss V. Buskirk
                    was not prepared for her part in the program and was fined. 
                        Columbus
                     came out ahead in the debate which contested whether he, for discovering, or 
                        Washington
                    , for defending America, was the most important.
            Mrs. M. W. Barnes became president on June 11, 1842. Her address was long and included the suggestion
                    that Phrenology might hold the solution of the superiority of the male or female brain. She
                        said:
                        Ladies of the Edgeworthalian Society:
                        Accept my thanks for the implied preference which has chosen me to preside at your meetings
                            and let me hope that to the brief address which (in compliance with our established
                            regulations) I offer you — you will extend your indulgence, attributing its
                            defects, or insipidity, not to any want of interest in the subject which would seem
                            appropriate for the occasion but to inability perhaps to treat them as I would wish; and
                            indeed to entire ignorance as to the usual mode adopted and considered proper in similar
                            cases; — the field for discussion (however) must necessarily be extensive; nor
                            can the subject be deficient in number or barren in interest if even limited to those
                            connected with or arising from our immediate situation as a society, yet in its infancy:
                            — But which has for its great object and aim the intellectual culture and
                            improvement of our sex. And if (as we believe) institutions of a like nature have heretofore
                            been found profitable in the many instances where they have been established for the benefit
                            of the other sex— as well as in the more limited trials that have been given by
                            our own — have we not every reason to expect that (with due perseverance and
                            energy) results equally happy will crown our exertions (in a cause which must strike each
                            one of us as being the most desirable of any that could possibly claim our attention)
                            — nor need we, I think— fear that at any future period of life we
                            shall be disposed to regret or deem misapplied whatever portion of time or thought we now
                            withdraw from our other occupations and devote in the manner here prescribed;—
                            and indeed does not our actual experience even thusfar go to favor such a belief? For to
                            most of us (I must think) our mutual relations and exercises have already been productive of
                            much pleasure — with regard to myself I confess so far has the experiment
                            exceeded my expectations that it would now be with great regret I should be compelled to
                            forego its advantages — nor should we, I think, feel discouraged that our numbers
                            are not greatly augmented;— prospects being decidedly more favorable with a few
                                eneregetic spirits than if our number were greater and the interest
                            more languidly sustained.
                        Most happily for women that dark season in the world's history which deemed her incable of sustaing the general character of a rational
                            being, well as the more confined one of her own peculiar sphere — is rapidly
                            passing away — and she is now called upon to come forward and herself assist in
                            the great work of emancipating the spirit from  the
                            thraldon and degration in which the ignorance of past ages have held her bound —
                            for though the sentiment which prevailed some years since of the inferiority of females
                            intellect seems exploded in this age of universal refinement and a woman of cultivated
                            understanding is no longer a phaenomina though the portals of science are
                            thrown open even to her and the paths of knowledge rendered accessable — what
                            matters it if she herself is not actuated by the proper spirit! — is not alive
                            and on the alert to seize and appropriate the rich and invented advantages that are now
                            offered to her acceptance for that we have good advantages compared to the
                            females of the olden time imperfect and mechanical as it is even yet our system of education
                            all must admit and that also the superiority of the modern to the ancient civilized world is
                            in a marked manner displayed in this particular for though we do hear of one or two gifted
                            women in 
                                Greece
                             and 
                                Rome
                             of Sappho, of Asphsia, and of Porcia — yet were the majority
                            consigned to the distaff, — and scarcely thought of in connexion with any more
                            elevated employment — but opinion is now more than ever in favor of the general diffusion of knowledge— and it is only to be expected
                            that women must profit by this enlargement of feeling — men of learning have
                            stooped from the elevations of science to accelerate her improvement — they now
                            abridge, complete, explain for her assistance and advancement in literature —
                            Shall we then be less active or shall we not rather gratefully unite our efforts with theirs
                            for the promotion of an object so desirable to each one of us and to our sex generally?
                            — convinced as we are that the cultivation of the mind ever opens exhaust-less
                            sources of amusement and delight of which the ignorant can form no estimate and in woman
                            equally with man is the beneficial effect of a proper system of culture made manifest
                            rendering her superior in all respects from being accustomed to think and be discriminate
                            her opinion is no longer a mere momentary impulse, her sphere is enlarged and she is as much
                            actuated by selfish motives or so likely to receive critical and consequently errorneous
                            impressions— she is generally more correct in her own sentiments and liberal to
                            those of others for tis mediocrity or ignorance that is intolerant and opionative but that knowledge is a treasure most heartily to be desired by all and
                            equally proper for all,— few now will question nor does the belief entertained by
                            some (that of this possession men are more tenacious than of any other and less willing to
                            share it with us) seems altogether probable — may it not rather be that in many
                            instances females are but superficially taught and when satisfied with that imperfect
                            teaching do sometimes make it the plea for undue assumption from which real information
                            would shrink— and there are, too, instances of female pretenders in learning who
                            seem to think it absolutely necessary to remove as far as possible from feminine grace, in
                            order to approach manly vigor of intellect; we cannot in such cases wonder that men should
                            prefer proficient to smatters in science— yet, there is no
                            reason why female acquirements should be identified with such folly or as is sometimes the
                            case with slovenly attire, an ill arranged table or an ill conducted household —
                            on the contrary the tendency of real knowledge is to make her sensible as well as humble
                            — nor will accomplishments  in any degree
                            indispose her for active domestic duties, "order is the sympton
                            of a well regulated mind and she who has felt the importance of interior arrangement will
                            scarcely be indifferent to a well directed household and if experience has
                            ever seemed to militate against this opinion it must proceed from constitutional defect
                            which mental discipline may have in some degree amended but which it has not been wholy able to correct" — is it then natural that man,
                            when superior himself, should wish to encounter even in a female companion the
                            contractedness of ignorance or inaptitude of folly— would he not rather wish to
                            meet in the domestic circle a friend who could sympathise if not participate in his higher
                            pursuits— who could appreciate literary excellence and taste intellectual
                            pleasures — to whom knowledge had given elevation and refinement? Let us then
                            bear in mind that it rests in a great degree with ourselves— whether we sink
                            again in the social scale —maintain merely our present position or rise still
                            higher, to be indeed the fit companion for man — his equal and his friend! that
                            such a state of things is practicable as well as desirable, I must believe until at least it
                            shall be proven by fair opportunities of trial— by Phrenology or other
                            incontrovertable evidence that our minds are actually incapable of the high degree of
                            attainment which constitutes the glory of man— but, if (as I must believe) we are equally endowed by nature how can we, nay how dare we, suppose the
                            divine attribute of intellect yielded us but to remain inactive or unemployed indeed I must
                            think there is more than mere matter of pleasure or inclination involved in this question
                            for should we not rather consider it an imperative duty to exercise and encourage whatever
                            portion of talent we may possess; if nothing was made in vain, surely this richest, choisest gift of God to man, was not designed to remain idle or
                            unappreciated; — then though many of our necessary occupations may seem in
                            compatible with mental culture let us be the more careful to devote even a portion of what
                            we are wont to misterm our spare moments to some profitable attainment and we shall be
                            astonished at the close of a year at the advantage we may derive from even the small payment
                            of time that otherwise would have been but useless blanks in each days history—
                            We may doubtless affect much in this way if we will but apply ourselves diligently to the
                            task — much too independent of the information gained at school where (even under
                            the most favorable circumstances) the whole business of obtaining an education (as it is
                            termed) is confined to a few brief years of perhaps the most thoughtless portion of life
                            — instead of constituting (as it should) and often does with men a part, at
                            least, of the daily work of a lifetime, for it is most generally after that season has gone
                            by that we learn to think (if we ever do) to apply the facts with which the mind may then
                            have been stored and which will but lie upon the memory as in the books from which they were
                            taken unless by the exercise of our own understanding we make them our own— it is
                            then by self directed study and reflection principally that we must prove what we have heard
                            and read extract from what we have learned from others all its nutrecious
                            juice, strengthen and enrich the soil of our own intellect which unless the reasoning
                            faculties are properly exercised, can no more be effected than can a limb or  muscle be strong or vigerous without a constant and healthy
                            application of it, to its use— Neither must we forget that there is nothing truly
                            valuable to be obtained without some pain or exertion — then surely with us the
                            sacrifice of a little present comfort might well be endured, for the sake of the rich reward
                            that must undoubtedly follow; and the young lady who would not shriek from an occasional
                            vigil in her untiring search mid learning's treasured hordes though she might peril
                            the blooming freshness of her cheek would be more than compensated by the additional lustre
                            and beauty thrown around her life and character.
                        It is to be regretted that the good sense and industry of the women of former days is not oftner imitated in this particular for (though literature) was indeed a
                            rare accomplishment among them (as they had great difficulties to encounter) yet, when they
                            did attempt it they were satisfied with no ordinary proficiency
                            —‘Parnassus itself was a craggy rock but the muses dwell upon its
                            top."
                        It has been remarked that many a bright and shining talent may lie hid in a napkin for very
                            want of activity to unfold it — and I must think it impossible to be greatly
                            under the influence of indolence, when actually unaware of the fact, in ourselves, this,
                            then is one among the many reasons that render it desirable to form and encourage a society
                            such as we now constitute for (unless there is some portion of him set apart and devoted
                            exclusively to intellectual improvement) we are too likely to neglect it
                            altogether— still quieting conscience and the spirits yearnings for light with
                            the assurance that we cannot possibly do otherwise;— tis not indeed unusual to
                            hear persons habitually complain of the want of time, ever in a hurry, and so perplexed with
                            business as to be unable to enjoy themselves or the society of a friend — when
                            with these very persons an habitual diligence and methodical arrangement would so dispose
                            the affairs of life that none would be found to intrude upon another; see (for instance the
                            dispatch with which some in public stations manage a multiplicity of the most important
                            concerns) to contemplate them we would almost conclude nothing (is) too
                            extensive for the human mind to compass yet diligence and methods are the charms that effect
                            it all: — let us then check every intimation which may occasionally urge that we
                            have no time to attend to the duties prescribed by our institution.—I will not
                            believe as some have predicted that we are destined to be shortlived and proffitless in our career — some opposition we have had (and where too
                            we might have expected more liberal and enlightened views) — yet such will affect
                            us but little if we but maintain the proper spirit within ourselves —
                            remembering— that those who too easily influenced by every adviser or intimidated
                            at the appearance of difficulty must necessarily be desultory and unsettled and effect
                            nothing of consequence because unable to persevere in any undertaking.
                        Let us then not doubt that we shall— as the name we have chosen
                            indicates— continue to prosper in this undertaking that, as we progress in years,
                            and increase in numbers, we shall be more and more convinced of the substantial benefits
                            derived through our mutual connexion and those of us who have supported
                            the measure in the season of its  greatest need shall in
                            future years consider it no mean gratification to be numbers among the founders of the first
                            female Literary Society of 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                    
            
            As the summer moved along June 18 found the members debating the wisdom of mature years as against
                    the happiness peculiar to youth. Again there was a split decision. The members liked the arguments
                    for Wisdom but they chose Happiness. From that the Society a week later considered whether a
                    murderer or a slanderer exerted the most pernicious influence. Those who argued for the murderer
                    won. On July 2 the question of manual labor was debated—whether it was a curse or a
                    blessing. It turned out to be a curse; as far as debating ability went. A foretaste of many another
                    argument these hundred years was given on July 9 when the Society discussed who had the greatest
                    reason to complain of their treatment: the Whites, the Indians or the Negroes. "The debate
                    was carried on with spirit and is now one of the most pleasant and useful exercises of the
                    Society," noted the secretary. The Edgeworthaleans decided for the Negro.
            During the remainder of 1841 the Society met regularly and received acclaim for its work from the
                    secretary. The questions for debate continued to hold the interest of the members. They were:
            July 15. Which profession affords the best opportunities to benefit mankind—Law or Physic?
                    Law won. (The defender of Physic failed to attend.)
            July 22. Which has caused the most bloodshed— Love or Anger? Love won. (Miss May
                    — to speak for Anger, failed to attend. She was fined 61/4 cts.)
            July 30. Is a young person of the lower ranks happier with a good education and a well informed mind
                    or with an education just equal to those around him? The decision went to the debaters favoring
                    equal education but all members agreed they would prefer a superior education.
            August 6. Is Conscience an inate principle? It is.
            August 13. Which is the greatest crime, slandering or stealing? Slandering.
            August 20. Which would be the most conducive to our happiness, to be at once created with all the
                    knowledge to be acquired or to obtain it by slow degree? The question was not answered. Neither of
                    the debaters was present.
            
            August 27. Did Napoleon exert a good or evil influence over Europe? The vote of the Society decided
                    that the argument was strongest against Napoleon but the president held that the good he had done in
                    Europe outweighed the evil.
            September 3. Which was the most blameworthy in the original transgression, Adam or Eve? The president
                    held for Eve and the Society voted that "Adam was less guilty."
            September 11. Which is the most honorable passion, Ambition or Love? As argued, Love.
            September 18. Is there more happiness found in the married or single state? And the vote of the
                    Society was for the single state!
            September 25. Should novels be abolished? A positive "No" was registered.
            By mutual agreement there were no meetings until November 12 when it was decided that parties were
                    not injurious to society.
            November 19. Should capital punishment be inflicted or not? The Society thought it should be
                    abolished.
            November 26. Is happiness more dependent on the mind or on surroundings? The mind won.
            December 3. Was Elizabeth justified in her conduct toward Mary Queen of Scots? That question of
                    British history was never answered — the secretary copied the minutes of a week before
                    and repeated that those in favor of "the mind" won.
            December 10. None of the officers came to the meeting. The few members present adjourned.
            December 17. A similar situation developed.
            December 24. Is there such a thing as disinterested benevolence? The date being Christmas Eve, the
                    vote was unanimous in favor of disinterested benevolence.
            On January 9, 1842, the secretary wrote: "It was proposed during a meeting of the Society, a
                    few weeks previous to the Anniversary of the Edgeworthalean Society that Judge McDowall should be
                    requested or invited to deliver an address on that occasion— it was unanimously agreed
                    to— and "Mrs. Barnes, L. Howe & M. Maxwell were appointed a committee to
                    inform the gentleman of the arrangement—and obtain his answer."
            ‘The invitation was accepted and at the appointed time, New Year's Evening, 2
                    o'clock, an appropriate and very  beautiful address was
                    made—claiming our highest admiration and entire satisfaction. On the evening of the same
                    day, the members of the Edgeworthalean society together with the young Ladies of the Academy, and as
                    a further celebration of the anniversary, adjourned to the Seminary, where they had previously
                    prepared and arranged an abundant repast.
            ‘Each individual had the liberty of inviting a certain number of their friends and when
                    all were assembled there were upwards of a hundred and twenty persons. The evening was pleasant and
                    passed off to the general satisfaction of both entertained and entertainers.
            ‘There were some small expenses, for spermaceta candles &
                    & that were defrayed by the funds of the Society; everything else necessary for the occasion
                    was contributed by the different individuals."
            A week after the party, on January 6, 1842, death took Mrs. Hughs, the first president, from the
                    ranks of the Society. Suitable resolutions were drawn at a special meeting on January 8 including
                    "That we truly sympathize with her afflicted family especially with her youthful daughter
                    who was formerly a member of our Association and whom we would earnestly commend to the
                    ‘Father of the Fatherless’ trusting that she may inherit the virtues of her
                    deceased parent, And, That in token of our regret at this irreparable loss we wear a badge of
                    mourning for 20 days, And, That a copy of this resolution be presented to the family and also that
                    they be published in the 
                        Bloomington
                     Post."
            Mrs. M.L. Hinkson became president on January 28, 1842. She found "the star of women
                    rising" and hurled defiance at those who would injure her cause. In her inaugural address
                    she said: 
                        Ladies
                        It is with fear and trembling I enter upon the duties you have assigned me; knowing that much
                            depends on the President to excite and maintain an interest in the exercises But your united
                            zeal for the prosperity and permanance of this institution, I trust will amply compensate
                            for deficiency and inability on my part. Associated together for the laudable purpose of
                            training the higher faculties of our nature in accordance with the laws of science and art
                            — of striking out thought by the colision of intellect, of
                            strengthening memery, invigorating mind and facilitating the acquisition
                            of knowledge, we have much to hope and but little to fear. The short period of our existence
                            as a body has not passed without many advantages. Every member, no doubt, is  already sensible of having received much benefit. In the brief
                            space of a year, a name, a character is established of which you may well feel proud; and I
                            trust that you will sufficiently appreciate the responsibilities resting upon you to sustain
                            and increase your present reputation by unremitting industry. True the society has met with
                            some disappointment— the collection of a library has not commenced, but then
                            access to 
                                the County
                             & other libraries is so easy that but little anxiety need be felt on
                            that account. One seat has been vacated in our little assembly which will long remain a memento mori: and should also remind us of the zeal and punctuality of the
                            highly prized member whose loss we deplore.
                        Fairly equiped and started on an expedition to the promised land of improvement with every
                            necessary advantage, there is no looking back to the smooth plains of indolence without
                            bringing contempt upon the Society and upon the sex, so far as its influence extends; and
                            that extends much farther on accoutn of such societies still being rare. Indefatigable
                            & energetic exertions are, therefore, imperiously required. Not only would a failure
                            bring obloquy and sarcasm on the abandoners of so noble a cause, but
                            rising genius would be damped— woman's energies suppressed—
                            the friends of humankind disappointed — and the narrow minded envious part of
                            (the) community would feel gratified that their croakings of woman's lack of
                            perseverance were no nearly confirmed.
                        Under the favorable auspices of the present age, if woman fail to improve the increasing
                            means, which the Arts and Sciences present, and which the wise and generous of the opposite
                            sex so nobly accord she tacitly acknowledes her indolence and proves her unfitness for
                            anything but the blind worship, abuse and scorn of him whome she should
                            sedulously emulate. But this cannot be her destiny. The star of woman is rising, and though
                            its beams have hitherto only glittered on our intellectual mountains, yet a ray has reached
                            the Edgeworthalean phalanx to illume its onward upward march. Then let its members beware
                            how they yield to the impulse of sloath and the suggestions of contracted minds lest they
                            fall behind the rapid strides of female improvement in various parts of the world.
                            Persevere. Be among the pioneers into woman's future sphere. The real
                            philanthropist is looking to such women and such institutions to prove to the world that
                            woman will become what he has asserted she can — the reasoning
                            counterpart of man. The gate to the temple of science is now unbarred & many secret
                            wishes and approving voices are urging woman up the laborious but invigorating steep. Shall
                            she faulter because the sneers and scoffs of the idle, vain, and
                            thoughtless are heaped upon her? Will she linger on the threshold of knowledge because fools
                            assert she has not energy enough to grasp its blessings? Nay let her fearlessly enter
                            confounding her enemies and proving to friends that she has zeal and industry enough to
                            overcome obstacles, at least.
                        She who superficially skims over the surface of useful studies and merely strives to excell in ornamental will ere long be viewed in the same light with a
                            student who should spend his college course in experimenting on fiddle strings What though
                            she may flutter in the  assembly with all the graces of
                            Venus, yet man must acknowledge that Minerva is a more interesting character —
                            that mind makes the woman as well as the man. The time will arrive— nay it is
                            almost here — when those only who are distinguished for intellectual and moral
                            worth shall be considered the truly accomplished.
                        The stability and prosperity of our Government must materially depend upon the proper
                            direction of the female mind. For a government to be truly republican woman must be
                            free— not from the laws of social life— but from ignorance and
                            superstition— from pride and vanity the spontaneous productions of an
                            uncultivated mind.
                        That women exert a vast influence in republican government has been acknowledge(d) in
                            different ages of the world, and for that reason the wise have repeatedly urged their claims
                            to a higher degree of mental discipline. But the great amount of domestic duties rendered
                            such a course generally impracticable. Only consider in addition to our domestic duties that
                            of spinning, weaving, and embroidery occupying two thirds perhaps of the time and because
                            fashionable as well as necessary it must be done. How much our condition is bettered. We
                            hava leisure for reading and thanks to Dame Fashion for taking that under her protection so
                            that it will generally be practised. The manual labor of woman is reduced nearly one half.
                            Indeed it seems that man by his numerous inventions is determined to strip her of the only
                            plausible excuse she has had for not improving her mind equally with his. Of the earliest
                            advocates of female education Pythagoras is the most prominent. It is said that many females
                            ranked among the brightest ornaments of his philosophical school. But the world was then
                            unable to appreciate strength of mind without corresponding physical strength. Therefore the
                            effort was premature, the mass of womankind was not sufficiently prepared for so great a
                            change.
                        But the way has been gradually prepared by the inventions and discoveries of ages. Man no
                            longer believes that the greatest mind necessarily dwells in the most athletic frame. And
                            now woman must show that she has kept pace with the changes of the times — that
                            she is ready to partake of the proffered tree of knowledge — to sacrifice ease,
                            in order to become the companion of man in his advanced state of civilization. What though
                            she never rival Bacon, Locke, or Newton yet need she despair? May she not aspire after
                            knowledge and seek for wisdom as for hid treasures? Though the richest ores and deepest
                            veins may perhaps be beyond her grasp, yet many a sparkling gem and priceless treasure will
                            be hers. Though the records of the past do not furnish many examples of surpassing talent,
                            still there are enough for ample testimony, that sex is no demarkation of capacity.
                        United together for the cultivation of mind— of the immortal past. How important
                            the duty— How glorious the privilege. What intrest should
                            characterise our meetings and stimulate our exertions. But it should be borne in mind that
                            to realize the greatest amount of good from such an association several things are
                            requisite. In the first instance; Every member should set an example of cheerful obedience
                            to the laws framed for the good of the whole. Regularity and punctuality in attendance are
                            almost indispensible to the interests and prosperity  of
                            the Society; especially while its numbers remain so small. Attention to the discussions,
                            compositions recitations and reading should be carefully bestowed. In the selections read,
                            the truth or falsity of the subject— the beauty or defects of the author
                            — might properly be criticised.
                        Above all things, order should characterize every part of the exercises. An observance of the
                            rules of punctuality, order and attention will tend to promote valuable mental habits, and
                            in conjunction with due preparation for the performance of the duties of the class, will
                            ensure those benificial results which we anticipate in becoming members of the
                            Edgeworthalean Society.
                    
            
            No sooner was Mrs. Hinkson comfortably seated in office than the club debated the question:
                    "Is there sufficient evidence to prove the truth of Phrenology?" and found that
                    there wasn't. Likewise the question of slavery arose in a debate on "Is it right
                    to hold slaves?" That, too, was answered in the negative. In February a most vital question
                    was asked: "Which has the most extended influence, Riches or Women?" The young
                    ladies of 1842 answered "Women." But a week later when the question was asked:
                    "Which is the more desirable in a young lady, Riches or Beauty?",
                    "Riches" won. One of the most strongly contested debates was over
                    "imprisonment for debt." The Society was against it.
            On June 3 the Society met but immediately adjourned so that the members could attend "the
                    Temperance Meeting." The Society had obtained its own quarters and dated its minutes
                    "Edgeworthalean Hall." In late June the Society discussed a topic that was to echo
                    in other halls for three quarters of a century: "Is it desirable that females should take
                    an active part in the great political questions of the day?" The president refused to
                    decide the issue.
            When Mrs. C. Morrison delivered her inaugural address on July 29, it proved to be one of the most
                    unusual in the annals of the Society but was, perhaps, more typical of popular addresses of the day.
                    It follows: 
                        Ladies
                        Bad health and business of a peculiar kind have this week prevented me from preparing myself to appear before you in a manner suitable either to the calling or
                            the occasion. I hope therefore to receive your indulgence while I in an imperfect and
                            bungling manner address you.
                        I cannot, dear ladies, thank you for your unanimous voice in confering on me the most arduous
                            office of this society which I am well aware you all know that I would in no-wise willingly accept, on account of my utter incapacity to rightly discharge
                            its responsible duties. But  I am highly gratified by
                            the honor thus confered on me and therefore thank you and also for your partiality, for there by you have shown that you do believe me to be as competent, and
                            able as is requsite under present circumstances to do some little, or at
                            least to preside while you show forth to the utmost of your minds your power to do what
                            should be done by our mutual co-operation, and let me tell you, that we can do nothing
                            without co-operation, some may not see nor appreciate the value of it but do you keep in
                            mind its indispensibility, I would never again take this chair let the consequences be what
                            it might did I not believe I should have your assistance,— the assistance of each
                            one of you in conducting this body a short distance along the road of preparation for
                            heavenly enjoyment. But, believing that you do sympathise with me on account of the great
                            weight that is now pressing my puny hand, that no reprimand will ever be required, that each
                            one is fully able to govern herself, that what you may see in me, that you
                            can fully approve you will not with-standing admit is right in me, considering my high
                            station as your president, and in fine believing that you will, on account of this my
                            standing, consider me incapable of error, during my presidential career. I feel strong in
                            your help as it is in Jesus our mutual master, who will crown us with reward's according to our works, for his own righteousness sake, what if
                            it should be to enjoy uninterruptedly His own lofty, pure, incomparable mind, but oh! it has
                            not entered into the heart of man to conceive the blessings that are in store for those that
                            serve God. To serve him in a society; capacity is now our high privilege, and how to do it
                            our study. A very few years hence say half a century and the place that now knows us; will
                            know us no more; it will not then be even supposed that each of you or I ever stood here.
                            This thought excites in us an awful, holy humility: fifty years hence and probably not one
                            of us will be living to witness the change, if any that one will be looking forward for her
                            dissolution as soon to take place. Will any say that this is a melancholy picture, I do not
                            consider it as such, unless we dwell upon it and say painful reality, instead of looking to
                            the promise and saying, bright, glorious realities.
                        Is not one dear one already gone. Oh! how soon — in the twinkling of an eye as it
                            were she was snatched away. Oh! Why so soon? but may be not too soon, who can say
                            —but we did need one tried spirit; tried in our very midst to stand up before our
                            Lord and influence our track thither. The loss at first appeared to us irreparable surely
                            she is not lost to us, for have we retrograded since her change? No, we have increased in
                            strength and energy. We appear doubly attached to each other, harmony and goodwill prevail
                            among us to a greater degree and though our meetings sometimes small and sometimes we are
                            pained at the loss of a member, still our ardour faileth not, and we are frequently
                            encouraged by the admission of a new and valuable member, and if our aim is still high, our
                            object noble and our motto T R U T H we will advance upward and onward in spite of bitter
                            scorn, cruel oppression and indeed in spite of every opposition.
                        To some of us the attendance here with the duties require much self-denial, but in their
                            accomplishment confer much pleasure, while to  others
                            there is very little self-denial and still much happiness enjoyed, in proportion as we deny
                            lazy self, take the cross and follow the line and precept of duty, we will derive unalloyed
                            pleasure….not withstanding to prepare for these meetings requires self-denial of
                            some and labor of others while it affords a continual stream of delight to others, it is
                            with mingled feelings of delightful satisfaction, intrest and pleasure
                            that we cooperate in its duties, witnessing its operations upon its members, the improvement
                            of some, the renewing of mental abilities in others, and the bringing to light and flame
                            talent sparks in a third class while the members of a fourth if not doing so much themselves
                            are the happy spectators of the society's advancement and elevating exertions, in
                            spite of obstacles which it is wonderful so small a body so lightly armed could have
                            conquered. Is there any desire more enobling than that of cultivating and improving the mind
                            that thing immortal and coeval with the great Creator of the universe, let us then set our
                            standard high, even to prepare ourselves to be companions with the perfect, an approximate
                            according as He gives us strength to proceed.
                    
            
            Perhaps reflecting some of the religious ferver of Mrs. Morrison's remarks the debate
                    question on August 5 concerned the question: "Should the Roman Catholic religion be
                    tolerated in the 
                        United States
                    ?" The president decided it should but the secretary was careful to record in
                    the minutes that the vote was six to six.
            Then a question arose that apparently stirred the town— "Should the literary
                    societies of 
                        Bloomington
                     unite in encouraging and supporting a good literary paper, for their own pleasure and
                    as a credit to the place?" The Society voted not to join in such an ambitious enterprise
                    but did vote to subscribe to two copies of "The Western World." (Mrs. Morrison
                    agreed to pay for one.)
            In August the question of Phrenology appeared again. This time the Society debated "Would it
                    be advisable for the young ladies and gentlemen of 
                        Bloomington
                     to have charts taken of their heads and sent to Fowler to see which would make suitable
                    companions for life?" And the Society decided it would! Whether the members ever did is not
                    an item in the minutes.
            Miss M. Maxwell became president November 11, 1842. Her address gives more of an insight into the
                    weekly meetings of the Society than the Minutes do. Her remarks would indicate that some problems of
                    presiding officers have not changed a great deal. She said: 
                        Fellow Edgeworthaleans—
                        We are met again, after the lapse of a month, to resume the usual  duties of our Society, either with active and energetic
                            spirits, or to give it an impulse, merely sufficient to keep it in existance during the
                            winter, without interest or improvement.
                        I know how much depends upon the President in this case, and truth forbids me to express any
                            great gratification at the position in which I find myself placed. There may be honor or
                            even partiality attached to the bestowal of the office, yet the responsibility so far
                            exceeds it, that the pleasure it might otherwise afford, is lost sight of. It is but right
                            and just that the office should be held in rotation: yet I can but wish that your choice had
                            fallen elsewhere, or falling upon me, that I was more worthy to accept it, more fully
                            competent to perform the duties, and to enforce all the regulations and laws of our
                            Constitution. — And permit me ladies, while "dressed in the little brief
                            authority" which you, yourselves have given, to say, that, we have of late been
                            somewhat wanting in due deference to the smaller matters of order, matters (however trifling
                            in themselves) upon which depend, in a great measure, the success of our Society. It were
                            better far to have too much formality and punctuality in our Association than too little. If
                            we wish to make it a sociable affair, a place equal for amusement and enjoyment, with
                            literary improvements, we should make laws to that effect; but while we acknowledge
                            ourselves governed by a particular constitution, we should strictly and uniformly act up to
                            its requisitions. Our By-Laws expressly forbid any member to speak upon the same subject
                            oftener than twice, or longer than ten minutes, or even leave her seat without
                            permission;— but methinks it will not prove a very severe tax upon any of our
                            memories to recall instances in which we have acted independantly of these regulations, long
                            before the usual duties of the evening were brought to a close; neither would it have always
                            taken the most observant eye to detect three four and sometimes more speaking at once and as
                            often as we chose — This is not a very heinous offence in
                            itself but it creates confusion and makes the exercises tedious to those who are disposed to
                            join the remarks and who are thus prevented from hearing the arrangements made for the
                            ensuing meeting.
                        I entreat your pardon ladies, for thus wearying your patience with such minute details; but
                            it were at least safe to bear in mind that a slight departure from the right may end in serious evil — It had been better, perhaps, to have
                            dispensed with such regulations altogether, at least better, than having, not to abide by
                            them: Or it might be construed into a want of confidence in ourselves, implying a doubt as
                            to the falsity of the universal accusation against our sex, that woman's tongue is
                            never still— Or perchance it may be that impulse within us, the surest legacy
                            left us by our Mother Eve, that ever tells us "forbidden pleasures are
                            sweet." Thus without restrictions or temptation our good sense would have taught us
                            the way to preserve order and insure success.
                        But do not understand me to say that I would have our Association to consist in a mere
                            mechanical routine of duties — we should ever be familiar and cheerful in our
                            intercourse and yet perform the exercises simply as they are required to be done. Indeed
                            such an Association as ours is calculated to form and perpetuate friendships which else had
                                 never existed. We can drink of the Pierian Spring
                            and yet gather the sweet flowers of friendship which bloom upon its margin. And should a
                            bitter draught mingle with the clear crystal of the fount their lovliness and fragrance
                            alone will change it into the waters of oblivion.
                        Our intercourse has not been marked merely with literary improvement but it has opened to
                            many of us, perhaps to all, new friendships, new thoughts, and new desires — We
                            who met as strangers, now meet as friends,— and often we find something to admire
                            in those from whom we least expected it and which, but for our association as a society,
                            would have remained (to us at least) unknown and unappreciated. We may not know until the
                            casket is opened (though rough and unseemly it be) what priceless jewels are concealed
                            within.
                        "True friendship" says a lady Authoress, "is a liberal and
                            expansive nature and seldom flourishes so well as when extended through a circle."
                            The same writer says "That woman's sympathy and friendship for a few will
                            extend to the whole sisterhood of her sex until she becomes what woman ever must be
                            — in her noblest, purest, holiest character — the friend of
                            woman."
                        If we are prosperous as a society, the pleasure and advantages are alike to all; if
                            opposition crosses our path, we meet it together and this unity in action and thought
                            creates a bond which may not be severed by light and thoughtless words. And have we met with
                            opposition! and from whence! From the other sex, as we possibly might expect? Nay! but from
                            our own. If I have at all feared ridicule it is from this source — but with a
                            Mark Anthony generosity we will say — We will not stir your hearts and minds to
                            do them wrong, for they are all sensible women. This however is but one
                            kind of opposition and the least dangerous— There is another kind more fatal to
                            our progress and success than this from our neighbors—it is opposition from
                            ourselves, against ourselves— Every member who is irregular in the performance of
                            her duties, who wants punctuality and perserverance, who yields to the disinclination she
                            has for mental exercise, and omits or slights the performances, is opposing her own interest
                            and the advancement of the society.
                        What matters it, if we do make sacrifices of personal comfort and the pleasures of
                            society— or what matters it, if we are compelled to make preparation by the
                            waning lamp of the midnight hour if it but serve to make brighter the light within us. At
                            such a time are there not moments when the longing for wisdom and knowledge— when
                            that yearning to know, and still to know, would tempt us to sacrifice all, yea, that which
                            we would almost startle to mention, and in such feelings is there not a warning, a voice
                            that tells us we have an unquenchable spirit withinm which seeks and must have food.
                        It is said the moral reformation of the world depends upon women. Are we
                            capable of undertaking the task? I fear not, until our mental reformation has at least
                            progressed further if not perfected. But upon this subject I need make no remark. The
                            emancipation of woman from the thraldom of ignorance and servitude has been portrayed by
                            those who have preceeded me in true and beautiful colors. Indeed I am almost compelled, in
                            self justification (however improper the time may  be
                            for passing a compliment) to say that my predecessors have said everything that can well we
                            said on the occasion of inaugural addresses. For this reason I have in some measure had to
                            carve out for myself a new path and like most other new paths it has no doubt been somewhat
                            rugged and barren of interest. And if in the farther discharge of the
                            duties pertaining to the office I should meet with difficulties or inadvertantly pursue a
                            wrong course I must solicit your kind assistance to extricate me and point out the true way.
                            I cannot flatter myself, as I am the first single lady whom you have honored with authority,
                            that I shall preside with as much dignity and ability as those whose maturer wisdom and
                            years so well fitted for the station.
                        In conclusion I would say that to carry on pleasantly and smoothly the good work we we have
                            so prossperously begun we must bear and forbear with
                            each other — rejoice when we are successful, persevere when we meet with
                            difficulties and we may ultimately present that anomaly in the records of men, a body of intelligent yet rational women —with minds well cultivated
                            yet possessing a taste for the domestic duties of life.
                    
            
            
               
                        Bloomington
                     weather began to take a hand in the affairs of the Society early in 1843 and several
                    meetings were abandoned. On March 3 an ever present question was debated—
                    "Should women be allowed to vote?" A. D. Maxwell, E. Baugh and M.A. Batterton took
                    part. The decision was unanimous. Women should not be given the ballot. The Society made a similar
                    decision concerning dueling.
            On June 23, the secretary had difficulty. After the regular meeting a question for debate was offered
                    and the secretary put it in the Minutes: "Is jeneous herditary or
                    not?" This didn't look quite right so another member wrote in the book:
                    "Is jenious hereditary or not?" On June 30 the Society decided
                    genius was a heritage. This out of the way, the debaters turned to "Does Sir Walter Raileigh deserve more censure for the introduction of tobacco or
                    praise for the introduction of potatoes into 
                        England
                    ?" The vote was taken and tobacco was tolerated, at least, although
                    "Mr. Raileigh" was censured.
            Death entered the ranks of the Society again on July 27 when Miss C. Swearingen died. Suitable
                    resolutions were passed.
            Miss M.E. Lowe became president on September 1, 1843. Her inaugural address is the last of those
                    preserved. It reads as follows: 
                        Ladies
                        The task both of writing this address and presiding over such an intelligent association
                            would be delightful if it were not for my inability  to
                            perform either creditably. You have heard every effort of mine at original composition:
                            therefore I know you will not expect much from me in the way of an address. My talent for
                            governing remains to be tried. Dignity, self-possession, impartiality and insight into human
                            actions and passions are qualities that should belong to your president. I am fearful that I
                            have but a slight claim to any of these, much less to the whole of them. A want of these
                            attributes will make me depend on your discrimination in my official decisions: which let me
                            hope you will not withold. It is not to be expected that we should be equally endowed with
                            genius or filled with important suggestions or aided by an equal amount of practical wisdom
                            yet all those contribute largely to the prosperity of society, either particular or
                            universal. Diversified minds blending and diffusing their different powers and dispositions
                            combining all the happy influences and promptings of their nature is what constitutes the
                            perfection, wisdom and happiness of all society. The varieties of female character are as
                            numerous as education and nature can make them and if it should be the destiny of any of us
                            not to be ex-i cessively refined or intelligent we are able at least to make truth and
                            nature our guides. If our style is but simple and chaste, we in all probability may appear
                            as well to a correct taste as if we should attempt some superfluios or
                            foreign decorations. "Valuable thoughts when unadorned are admired the
                            most." If it is but little that we are now able to accomplish; yet our feeble
                            exertions and limited sphere of action may become unbounded in its extension and influence.
                            We should be encouraged by the recollection that it is the plan of 
                                Providence
                             to accomplish mighty results by the use of very simple means. Every achievement
                            has a beginning. Even our own dear bought freedom was kindled from a spark that remained
                            unextinguished in the bosoms of the few patriotic fathers of our liberty. It was the
                            unkindling of this very spark that leaves us this day in possession of privileges and
                            attainments which far surpass those possessed by women of other nations of the earth: who
                            were comparatively mere beasts of burden. But woman is no longer the slave of degraded man.
                            The excellencies and accomplishments which should have been hers, she has at last assumed.
                            Man's nature which in every age was not human nature now feels that she has her
                            undoubted rights, capacities and powers: and that she should freely exercise all (of) them
                            in support of her highest dignity and happiness. A steadiness of purpose in a well directed
                            plan of intellectual, moral and social culture is only necessary to the highest development
                            inwoman as well as in man. These are highly necessary to her usefulness in society, both in
                            and out of the domestic circle. That woman is very useful without education is no argument
                            against her being far more so with it. If it is the business of education to cultivate the
                            powers and virtues of the mind why should it be denied the companion of self-exalted man, or
                            how can it be expected that the exalted sympathies and excellencies of woman's
                            nature could be exhibited without its aid. When it takes years of mental labor to develope
                            the powers of the minds of man. It is the favorite theory of tyrants that the education of
                            the governed makes them disorderly. But it has been found from experience that mental
                            cultivation instead of raising women above her duties tends to give her a deeper  sense of her responsibility and enables her to discharge them
                            more faithfully.
                        Since this is proven true by so many living examples the world is compelled to feel and
                            acknowledge the importance of female education: and exert their noblest efforts to raise
                            them to that station which nature and reason show they should attain. The temple of science
                            like the paradise of Mohamed was formerly considered a place too sacred for the intrusion of
                            woman and although its jealous barriers are broken down and they are permitted to enter yet
                            the effects of this repulsion exert an influence sufficiently strong to keep the greater
                            number from making the attempt.
                        Every individual of this society is endowed with a rational and immortal soul, therefore we
                            are all important beings: whether rich or poor, learned or illiterate, we are held
                            responsible by our Creator for the talent given us. We should then in view of our present
                            usefulness and future happiness assert ourselves. If we but make the necessary exertion and
                            are influenced by correct motives we shall not be found wanting nor our talent hidden at the
                            general reconing. Let us remember that the source of all improvements
                            depends upon the improvement of the human mind and this again upon the state of literature
                            and science. I might say that literature has almost become incorporated with the life and
                            constant employments of the more favored of us. No fashionable amusement— none of
                            the seductive arts of the age are necessary to recommend it to our pursuit; but when
                            presented in its purity we are willing to grasp it and love it for itself alone.
                    
            
            In January, 1844, there were indications of difficulties in the affairs of the Society. The Minutes
                    read: "Society convened as usual. The roll being called several members were absent, upon
                    which those present (being a quorum) resolved upon an adjournment. On the following Saturday, Jan
                    20th, the members met and disposed of the business affairs of the Society; after which M.L. Bollman
                    was appointed to keep the records and during the last week in April to notify the members
                    individually and further to solicit of the Trustees the privilege of again occupying 
                        the County
                     Seminary as a place of meeting one evening every week. After which there was a regular
                    adjournment to the first Friday in May."
            Meetings were recorded for May 3, May 16, May 31, and June 14 but thereafter the record is a blank.
                    At the final meeting noted, a subject was entered for debate: "Which has done the most harm
                    in the world, fashion or fire-arms?" Assignments were recorded as usual but "the
                    Society adjourned."
         
         
         
            Lincoln and the Diplomats
            
               John A. Garraty*
            Among the papers of Henry Cabot Lodge at the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society are two notebooks in which Lodge kept sporadically throughout his
                    long career, a journal. During his early years he was in almost constant contact with older men who
                    had played important roles in the drama of the Civil War. Occasionally these men recounted for him,
                    often in the course of dinner parties, political meetings, and on trains, personal memories of the
                    important events with which they had been connected and the famous men they had known and with whom
                    they had consorted. Young Lodge had an historian's interest in these tales, and recognized
                    their permanent value, so he recorded many of them in his journal, along with casual jottings on his
                    personal doings.
            The following two selections concern Abraham Lincoln. The first offers some previously unpublished
                    recollections of Carl Schurz, certainly a friendly observer, and the second is an account by Charles
                    Francis Adams which helps explain the coolness which existed between the Great Emancipator and his
                    distinguished representative in Great Britain. 
                  
                     
                        
                           Feb 11th [1876. 
                                        New York City
                                    ]
                        …Dined at Brevoort and then to see Schurz …. We then talked on
                                    various subjects particularly Mr Lincoln. Mr S. said he was convinced of
                                    Lincoln's abilities & sterling qualities by the Douglas
                                    controversy. Told me an anecdote of Lincoln's diplomatic methods &
                                    how popular he was with all the foreign ministers. Mr Lincoln sent for Lord Lyons1 on one occasion & bidding him to sit down near him
                                    said "Now look here lord Lyons I want to keep peace with 
                                        England
                                     but I can't stand this. You just write to the Queen &
                                    tell her that I don't want to go to war but I can't stand this
                                    sort of thing." (referring to some of 
                                        England
                                    's insidious acts of hostility) Mr Schurz also described to me
                                    an interview with Mr Lincoln during the campaign of '64. The intense
                                    sadness & sorrow of Mr Lincoln & the manner in which he said in
                                    reference to attacks upon him "Why do they misunderstand me so" Mr
                                    S. said brought tears to his eyes. He also told me that Lincoln was a lover of
                                    Shakespeare & that his favorite play was Macbeth. A natural preference
                                    & sound taste but in view of Lincoln's tragic fate it seems
                                    something more. To no man more than to Lincoln did the sublime lines beginning
                                    "After Life's fitful fever" better apply.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               * John A. Garraty is a member of the department of history and political science at 
                            Michigan
                         State College, East 
                            Lansing
                        , 
                            Michigan
                        .
               
                  1 Richard Bickerton Pemell, 1st Earl Lyons, was British Minister at 
                            Washington
                         from 1858 to 1865.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           June 10th [1876 Nahant, Mass.]
                        …At 1 P.M. to town [
                                        Boston
                                    ] & then to 
                                        Quincy
                                     to dine C.F.A. Jr.2 Present Prof. Sumner3 (for whom the dinner was given) Godkin,4
                                    C. F. Adams & C.F.A. Jr & wife. Conversation at first general.
                                    Towards close of dinner Mr Adams got talking about his English mission. Said after
                                    his appointment went with Mr Seward to see the Pres. & get instructions. On
                                    being introduced he of course expressed his acknowledgements to which Lincoln
                                    replied—‘Very kind of you to say so Mr Adams but you are not
                                    my choice you are Seward's man" & then turning to Seward
                                    said "Well Seward I have settled the 
                                        Chicago
                                     Post Office." Mr A. admitted that this had always been present
                                    in his mind in connection with Lincoln & had colored the Seward eulogy. Mr
                                    Adams also told of Washburne's5 application to Lincoln
                                    for the 
                                        Chicago
                                     P.O. & L's saying to him "You can't
                                    have the 
                                        Chicago
                                     P.O. it's already promised" (then drawing out a long
                                    list of places & salaries) "You shall have the ministership to
                                    Paraguay."
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  2 Charles Francis Adams, Jr., son of Charles Francis Adams, was a Union
                        officer during the Civil War.
               
                  3 William Graham Sumner, economist and sociologist. In 1876 he was a
                        professor at 
                            Yale
                        .
               
                  4 Edwin Lawrence Godkin, editor of the Nation.
               
                  5 Elihu Benjamin Washburne, Congressman from 
                            Illinois
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Art and Life in America. By Oliver W. Larkin. (
                        New York
                    , Rinehart & Company, Inc., 1949, xviii, 547. Illustrations, bibliographical
                    notes, and index. $6.00.)
            Oliver W. Larkin's Art and Life in America is to American art what H. G.
                    Wells's Outline of History was to history. There is one major
                    difference—Wells hit all the high spots, Larkin misses many but goes deep into a glowing
                    account of some of the valleys! The structure of the story is beautifully set up, the writing is
                    lucid and entertaining, and the prodigious accomplishment of the whole thing is a wonder for a first
                    effort by any author! Its pages and illustrations would give mental and aesthetic indigestion to
                    anyone attempting to forge through it; but nobody will, for it is much too heavy a volume to hold at
                    any angle—this fault of publication is my most serious criticism of the whole effort!
                    Larkin has beautifully divided his material into six very nearly equal parts; they would have made
                    at least three easy to handle separate volumes that anyone would have been delighted to pick up and
                    peruse anywhere, anytime. That's exactly the kind of writing it is—the author
                    made it spontaneous fun, but the publisher turned it into a laborious job.
            One is carried from page to page by the beautiful English, the good humor and the graceful bounding
                    from subject to subject. The reader is also impressed by the amazing survey of the vast material. In
                    fact, no one knew the subject was so vast! The bibliography adjoining the index at the back of the
                    book covers about everything that has ever been published on American art and you feel that Larkin
                    has read it all. He becomes the largest and busiest of all bookworms, chewing his way through the
                    vast walls of art literature that surround him.
            His book covers the visual arts from pre-colonial days to 1949 with special emphasis on architecture
                    as the visible building of the background of American life. His coverage of sculpture is sensitive
                    and at times, eloquent, but it is not all inclusive.
            His account of the crafts is casual and fails to recognize some of the vulnerable spots of the
                    country. He is not too aware of the art attainments in the South, Middle West, and along the Pacific
                    Coast. In fact, outside of 
                        New England
                    , 
                    
                        New York
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        Virginia
                    , one has the feeling that the author has had few personal experiences, but rewrites the
                    opinions of others.
            In the field of painting he makes a resplendent picture of the accomplishments in our country,
                    although refuses to admit many of them as American in spirit. This attitude he augments by bringing
                    Cezanne, Matisse, Duchamp, and Derain into the American picture. One finds himself in complete
                    contradiction with his estimate of Copley and Edward Savage, but rejoices in his courageous
                    deflation of the, "Mop, Pail and Ash Can" era! In fact, his classification of late
                    nineteenth and twentieth century painting is delightful and spirited. Only two of the great
                    Expositions are mentioned, no recognition of the important art influences of the Fairs at 
                        San Francisco
                    , 
                        San Diego
                    , 
                        Dallas
                    , 
                        Buffalo
                    , 
                        Chicago
                     (1933-34), and 
                        New York
                     (1939-40). Also completely ignored are the superb art museums throughout the country
                    with their fabulous treasures and their active programs of exhibitions of contemporary American art
                    and loan exhibits from abroad. Also the art schools and the rapidly developing art departments of
                    the great universities and colleges are not mentioned, but it is very possible that this new
                    brilliant writer on the fine arts is saving this for another volume.
            
               The Art Institute of 
                            Chicago
                        
                Dudley Crafts Watson
         
         
            
               Bank Note Reporters and Counterfeit Detectors, 1826-1866. By William H.
                    Dillistin. (
                        New York
                    , The American Numismatic Society, 1949, pp. viii, 175. End plates. $3.50.)
            This volume is No. 114 in the Numismatic Notes and Monograph series. It describes the chaotic
                    conditions that prevailed during the so-called "wildcat banking period," and
                    explains the techniques developed for dealing with the depreciated wildcat bank notes. It also
                    devotes considerable space to the problem of counterfeit currency.
            The confusion in banking and monetary matters during the period covered was due in large measure to
                    an unusual combination of circumstances. There was no effective national control of banking policy,
                    and the state banking laws were in most instances notoriously lax. With respect to the  currency, there was no effective limitation of bank note issues, and no
                    adequate provision for their redemption. The bank notes appeared in a bewildering variety of
                    designs, and with cheap paper and grossly inferior printing and engraving. In the absence of
                    adequate supervision and control unscrupulous adventurers found it easily possible to enter the
                    banking business. A large percentage of the banks that were established were both unsound and
                    unnecessary, and soon the country became flooded with state bank notes. To make matters worse, many
                    of the banks made no pretense of redeeming their notes in specie. In fact it became a common
                    practice to establish banks in the depths of forests or in other inaccessible places so that it
                    would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to present the notes for payment.
            Under these conditions the bank notes in circulation during the wildcat banking period had widely
                    varying degrees of acceptability. A discount of as high as 40 per cent was not uncommon, and in
                    extreme cases the notes became utterly worthless. Gradually there developed the business of trading
                    in the notes of distant or out-of–state banks, and interestingly enough the bank note
                    brokers frequently combined their traffic in bank notes with the sale of lottery tickets. Thus the
                    holder of notes issued by distant banks could take them to a local lottery office and exchange them,
                    at the current discount, for the notes of local banks.
            As the bank note currency increased in both volume and diversity, the businessmen were ready to
                    welcome any assistance available in the problem of evaluation. As early as 1818 certain newspapers
                    began to publish bank note tables or lists, giving the latest quotation on each issue. Later these
                    listings came to be published independently, and were known as "bank note
                    reporters." As might be expected, the publishing of this information frequently resulted in
                    litigation, as the officers of the wildcat banks would try every means to prevent the facts from
                    becoming known. There were also some dishonest publishers, who were guilty of
                    "puffing" worthless bank notes. Such cases were rare, however, and on the whole
                    the publishers of bank note information performed an important protective service.
            The circulation of paper currency usually brings with it the problem of protection against bogus
                    notes. It is said that the Bank of 
                        England
                     was in operation for sixty-four  years before the
                    first discovery of a counterfeit Bank of 
                        England
                     note; but this was something of a record. In this country, counterfeiting was a serious
                    problem even before the middle of the eighteenth century. As early as 1726 the newspapers contained
                    warnings of the appearance of counterfeit bills, and a century later the flood of bogus notes had
                    reached alarming proportions.
            The author classifies and describes the bogus currency as follows: "A counterfeit note has been described as one that resembles and has been copied from a
                    genuine note. It is usually the same size, shape, pattern and similar in all respects to a genuine
                    note. A spurious note has been characterized as a peculiar style of counterfeit
                    and has been so termed due to the fact that it has been printed or engraved from an original plate
                    although it bears no resemblance to a genuine note, except as to the name of the bank and the
                    signatures of the officers. An altered note is usually one where the name of a reputable bank has
                    been substituted for that of a suspended bank. Genuine notes upon which the amount has been raised
                    to a higher denomination are generally referred to as raised notes" (p.
                    16).
            In 1859 it was estimated that there were nearly four thousand counterfeit or fraudulent bills in
                    circulation, with new discoveries of spurious notes averaging at least ten per week. There were also
                    in circulation a large number of notes of banks that had been broken or closed. By this time it had
                    become regular practice for the publishers of bank note reporters to add to the listing of genuine
                    bank notes a separate section called a "counterfeit detector." This section gave
                    detailed descriptions of the various counterfeits reported to be in circulation.
            We may observe that our paper currency problems did not end with the establishment of the national
                    banking system, and the subsequent withdrawal of state bank notes from circulation. We have made
                    progress; but at best improvement has come slowly. As early as 1810 Abel Brewster published a
                    pamphlet urging the desirability of having a uniform paper currency, as a protection against fraud;
                    but it was not until the issue of the "New Series" in 1929 that uniform designs
                    were adopted for all the circulating paper currency. With our present system the denomination of a
                    bill can be ascertained by the portrait as well as by the numbering, and  this makes it much more difficult to pass bills that have been
                    "raised." But in spite of all precautions the counterfeiters are still active. The
                    suppression of counterfeiting and alteration of bills is one of the duties of the 
                        United States
                     Secret Service, and according to a recent report from the chief official there were 174
                    new counterfeit notes in production in 1949, and during the year 478 persons were arrested for
                    counterfeiting offenses.
            The book under review is very readable, and the material presented is well arranged. The appendix
                    contains a useful bibliography, and an extensive listing of bank note reporters, giving dates,
                    number of issues, and places of publication. There is also an excellent series of plates of bank
                    notes, illustrating the differences between genuine and bogus bills. The author deserves credit for
                    having provided us with an informative account of the currency difficulties, and of the protective
                    devices used, during a rather turbulent period in our banking and monetary history.
            
               Indiana University James E. Moffat
         
         
            
               The Army Air Forces in World War II. Edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea
                    Cate. Volume II, Europe: Torch to Pointblank, August 1942 to December 1943. (
                        Chicago
                    , The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1949, pp. xxii, 897. Illustrations, maps, charts, appendixes, glossary, and
                    index. $6.00.)
            The present is the second of the projected series of seven volumes to appear as the official
                    chronicle of the army air forces in World War II. As the subtitle indicates it is concerned with the
                    story of the air arm in the war from the conception of the plan for allied landings in north and
                    northwest Africa (TORCH) in the summer of 1942 to the fulfillment of the Combined Bomber Offensive
                    (POINTBLANK) as a preliminary to the invasion of western Europe in the spring of 1944. A subsequent
                    volume will record the remainder of the European phase of the war to VE Day.
            Initially planned general strategy, by which it was hoped to accomplish a global victory against the
                    tripartite alliance of the Axis powers, which had been formed in 1940, called for defensive measures
                    in the Pacific and offensive efforts  in Europe. This was
                    generally delayed and altered to some degree by the amazing amount of successes the Japanese were
                    accumulating after Pearl Harbor. Priority of the limited resources then available was made to allied
                    operations in the Pacific. Only after the Japanese defeat at Midway, in June, 1942, generally
                    conceded to be a turning point in the war, were the allies able to wage offensive war in Europe.
                    With the B–24 attack on the Ploesti oil refineries in Rumania on August 1, 1942, the
                    first large scale heavy bomber attack on a strongly defended target and the longest major bombing
                    mission undertaken up to that time, and with the B–17 attack on the marshaling yard of 
                        Rouen
                    , 
                        France
                    , on August 17, 1942, inaugurating the experimental campaign of daylight bombing, the
                    offensive air war against 
                        Germany
                     was begun.
            Two sections of the book, written by Thomas J. Mayock, who covered the north African theater
                    operations for the historical office during the war, and Albert F. Simpson, who served in 
                        Italy
                     as a historical officer, are devoted to the Mediterranean theater. Preferential bias
                    for the air force is so lacking in these accounts of the north African, Sicilian, and Italian
                    campaigns, that, at times, a careful culling of the narration is necessary to ascertain the specific
                    role of American and British air forces. The close co-operation and integration of the combined
                    land, sea, and air forces necessary to execute modern warfare is ably related.
            Arthur B. Ferguson, who devoted his attention to the antisubmarine and Eighth Air Force operations
                    during the war, and Alfred Goldberg, who served as a historical officer in the European theater,
                    have authored the two sections of the volume devoted to the campaign of strategic bombardment
                    against 
                        Germany
                     and occupied Europe. One concludes from the account rendered on this phase of the war,
                    and perhaps rightly so, that the air force operated rather independently of the ground and sea
                    groups. In addition to being a picture of the activities of the air force operations from 
                        England
                    , it is also necessarily a narration of the very struggle of acceptance by military
                    leaders of the fundamental tactical assumptions upon which they were predicated and the difficulty
                    of obtaining the requisite forces and supplies to execute these assumptions.
            Attempt is made, by Goldberg and Simpson, in the concluding section of the book to show the intimate
                    connection  between the Mediterranean and European theaters by
                    dealing with reorganizational changes which co-ordinated more closely their efforts leading to the
                    "grand invasions" of 1944. The concept of interdependence of the two theaters,
                    both in theory and in practice, has been portrayed throughout the volume; this section successfully
                    adds to an understanding of the necessarily close co-operation from the organizational standpoint.
            As in the previous volume, the editors have attained a remarkable degree of uniformity in style and
                    objectivity of presentations even though the accounts have been written by four different writers.
                    Typographical errors are relatively few in number, but errors of fact may be of greater frequency
                    than can be accurately checked. This is due to the easy exaggeration with which combat results are
                    reported under war time stress. What material difference correction of these inaccuracies would make
                    in the over all picture, it is not possible to say. Perhaps this can never be determined because an
                    absolute check would involve a careful comparison with enemy battle reports and statistics, some of
                    which will never be available.
            The maps used to illustrate the campaigns in the Mediterranean theaters are excellent and most
                    helpful. Those accompanying the text describing the offensive against 
                        Germany
                     and occupied Europe are too few in number and too sparse in detail. A key or
                    explanation of symbols used in several of the maps throughout the volume would add to their utility
                    in understanding the story which they illustrate.
            This, as the previous volume, will bring home to the reader the overwhelming amount of detail and
                    careful planning involved in "total" war. It is a picture as seen from the eyes of
                    strategists and rendered "in terms of the cold statistics which ultimately measure air
                    victories" (p. 670). As a documentary record of the air war from the American point of
                    vantage, The Army Air Forces in World War II is a most valuable contribution to
                    military history.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State University Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               The History of the Sisters of 
                            Providence
                         of Saint Mary-of-the-Woods. By Sister Mary Borromeo Brown with an introduction
                    by the Most Reverend Paul C. Schulte, D.D. Volume I, 1806-1856. (
                        New York
                    , Benziger Brothers, Inc., 1949, pp. xiii, 826. Maps, illustrations, appendix,
                    bibliography, and index. $6.00.)
            
            This lengthy volume is primarily the story of the growth and activities of the community of the
                    Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     of Saint Mary-of–the-Woods from the time of the arrival of the first sisters
                    at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1840 to 1856, the year of the death of the Foundress, Mother Theodore. Anne-Therese
                    Gurin (Mother Theodore) entered the novitiate of the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     at Ruille-sur–Loir in the autumn of 1823, and upon her profession was named
                    Mother Superior for the school recently opened in 
                        Rennes
                    . Celestin de la Hailandiere, Bishop of 
                        Vincennes
                    , was in 
                        France
                     in 1839 seeking financial assistance and sisters for his diocese, and the Superior
                    General of the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     promised to send a missionary group, provided Mother Theodore would be its leader. And
                    so it was that on July 16, 1840, Mother Theodore, Foundress of the Community in America, and five
                    sisters started on their journey to America. Not until September 5 did they reach 
                        New York
                    . On October 21 they were in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , installed in a crude farm dwelling, their first motherhouse. It was truly a house
                    "in-the–woods," and the adjustment which the young French sisters had
                    to make to life in the remote, inconvenient place is one of the most interesting themes of this
                    book. With almost no money and little help, they labored in the fields, planted, harvested, founded
                    their schools, and finally gained a strong and permanent foundation.
            The Sisters immediately started preparation for their boarding school which opened in July, 1841, as
                    St. Mary's Academy for Young Ladies. The prospectus announced instruction in writing,
                    arithmetic, geography and history, English composition, natural philosophy, chemistry, botany,
                    mythology, astronomy, rhetoric, plain and fancy needlework, bead work, tapestry, and lacework. Both
                    Catholics and Protestants were enrolled. By November there were ten boarding students. In August,
                    1842, the first commencement was held. "The closing exercises were preceded by a public
                    examination conducted by invited gentlemen from 
                        Terre Haute
                     …. the demure little group of frontier young ladies [were] seated in a
                    semi-circle their hair brushed back from their clear brows. They wore small black silk aprons donned
                         for the occasion to go through the ordeal of the
                    examination, which was de regueur afterwards for many years."
            This school's reputation spread over the state and daughters of many of the outstanding
                    pioneers were enrolled. Booth Tarkington's mother was one of the early students. Years
                    later her son wrote: "Something rare and fine was brought from 
                        France
                     to Saint Mary-of–the-Woods, and none of those who were students there
                    remained unaffected by it. For lack of a better word, I must call it
                    ‘distinctive.’ The visible effect was a manner of simplicity and gentle
                    dignity."
            The Sisters started their first mission schools in 1842, the year after the Academy opened. The first
                    included the village school in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and schools at 
                        Jasper
                     and St. Francisville. These were maintained primarily as day schools where pupils were
                    received at nominal fees. Later missions were founded at 
                  Madison, Vincennes
               , 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and 
                        Evansville
                    . The Sisters also took over the orphan asylums for boys and girls at 
                        Vincennes
                     founded by Bishop de Saint-Palais. In 1849 the Community had twenty-seven professed
                    religious, six novices, fourteen postulants, and was carrying on seven schools with a total
                    enrollment of about six hundred.
            The history of these activities of the Community is almost submerged by the author, however, in her
                    detailed account of the struggles which the Community had to survive during its first nine years.
                    Poverty, prejudice, and above all the unfriendly, sometimes openly hostile, attitude of Bishop de la
                    Hailandiere to the Community which he had been instrumental in bringing to America, threatened its
                    very life. The crisis came in 1847 when Mother Theodore was deposed by the Bishop, dismissed from
                    her Congregation, forbidden to return to St. Mary's, or communicate with the Sisters. A few
                    weeks later she was permitted to return. The Bishop was leaving 
                        Vincennes
                     and he renounced all right over the Community. During this period the devotion and
                    fortitude of Mother Theodore, and the devotion and loyalty of the Sisters of the Foundress saved
                    their community. Following Bishop de la Hailandiere's departure, under the regimes of
                    Bishop Bazin and Bishop de Saint-Palais, progress was steady. Building programs were carried forward
                    and curricula expanded.
            The lengthy correspondence between the Sisters in America and their friends and relatives in 
                        France
                     and with the  motherhouse at Ruille has been
                    preserved and drawn upon by the author. The book is well organized and quite readable, and the
                    casual reader may skip the long quotations and detailed accounts of some incidents not essential to
                    the history. A bibliography of published and manuscript sources and an index is included.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Gayle Thornbrough
         
         
            
               Manufactural 
                            Evansville
                        , 1820-1933. By Bernard H. Schockel. (
                        Chicago
                    , University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1947, pp. x, 263. Tables, pocket map, appendix, illustrations, and bibliography.
                    $3.00.)
            In recent years a number of studies based on the socioeconomic conditions existing in certain
                    manufacturing and industrial areas, which tend to indicate an increasing appreciation of the
                    significance of such contributions to American society have appeared. Unfortunately, however, most
                    of those published so far have been either highly technical or popularly superficial. Perhaps a new
                    type of historical writing which will emphasize the best features of both needs to be developed.
            This paper-covered volume is a study of the evolution of manufacturing in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, from 1820 to 1933, with emphasis on the period 1929-1933. The author attempts
                    to answer three questions: (1) "Has there been more than a modicum of order inherent in
                    Manufactural 
                        Evansville
                    ?"; (2) "Is the outlook for future manufacturing in 
                        Evansville
                     optimistic?"; and (3) "What would help Manufactural 
                        Evansville
                    ?" All three of these questions are interrelated, of course, and the author
                    claims that the answer to each is "positive." From his study he arrived at two
                    major conclusions: first, "that discernible order permeates much of Manufactural 
                        Evansville
                    "; and second, that "the time of possible demise of extensive
                    manufacturing in 
                        Evansville
                     lies happily remote."
            A tremendous amount of data has been collected and assimilated in this volume. No less than eighty
                    tables are included and analyzed. There are thirty-eight illustrations, including several
                    photographs. There is also a generous sprinkling of footnotes, and an adequate bibliography. A
                    pocket fastened to the back cover contains a map.
            
            Unfortunately a doctoral dissertation of this kind is not very apt to appeal to the general reader,
                    and it is doubtful that it will be received with much interest outside its locale. Perhaps in order
                    to meet the graduate school requirements, the author was compelled to display an unusual amount of
                    erudition, but the general effect has a tendency to repel the casual reader. A little popularizing
                    would have given it balance.
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         College I. George Blake
         
         
            
               Northwood Sketches. By Chase S. Osborn and Stellanova Osborn. (Lansing,
                    Historical Society of 
                        Michigan
                    , 1949, pp. xiv, 127. $2.50.)
            This delightful little volume by former Governor Chase S. Osborn of 
                        Michigan
                     will be read with pleasure not only by the people of that state but by all lovers of
                    the great outdoors. It will also be of interest to those who are concerned with the history of the
                    Upper Peninsula region of 
                        Michigan
                    .
            The forty-six sketches range in chronology from Governor Osborn's first experiences in the
                    wilderness area around Florence, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , to happenings at his retreat on Duck Island in the St. Marys River. He endured the
                    hardships of primitive existence through necessity as a youth, and by choice continued to make his
                    home in log cabins and simple camps until his recent death in the ninetieth year.
            The amateur, as well as the trained woodsman, will benefit from Osborn's experiences in the
                    north woods. The sketches, "Indian Woodcraft" and "Bough Bed"
                    reveal the secrets of the comfortable life in the wilderness. Deer hunters will gain much from
                    "Real Sportsmen Do Still Hunting" and "What to do with a Slain
                    Buck," while the general reader will chuckle at the efforts of the tenderfoot in
                    "Eating a Rubber Boot." All will sympathize with "The Supreme Court
                    Justice and the Bear," and the student of history will be better acquainted with the Upper
                    Peninsula.
            The author's humor is stimulating and his philosophy wholesome. Nature lovers will agree
                    with him that "The best thing about the woods and the fields and the waters is that they
                    are for womanly women and manly men." Children brought up in them or permitted to spend a
                    portion of each  year in them may come to something and do
                    things. If they know how to choose, they shall be made clean.
            The Historical Society of 
                        Michigan
                     is to be congratulated on this publication.
            
               Calumet Center Indiana University Powell Moore
         
         
            
               Colonial 
                            St. Louis
                        : Building a Creole Capital. By Charles E. Peterson. (
                        Saint Louis
                    , 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society, 1949, pp. v, 69. Illustrations. $1.00.)
            In this pamphlet the 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society has reprinted (with additions and corrections) a number of articles
                    originally published in its Bulletin in 1947. Architect-author Charles E. Peterson
                    makes no pretense of having written a complete history of the town's early years.
                    Apparently he has concentrated his efforts on those aspects which are closely allied to his
                    profession, for the greater part of the work is devoted to treatments of such subjects as the
                    commons, the dwelling house, early mills and factories, building construction, craftsmen, and works
                    of defense.
            Interested historians will appreciate these discussions of phases of the building trade by a writer
                    well-qualified to treat them. It is unfortunate, however, that the pamphlet has such a large number
                    of typographical errors.
            
               Indiana University Frances Krauskopf
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Abstracts of Early 
                        Wayne County
                     Wills1
            
            
               Dorothy Riker*
            
                    
                  Symons, Jesse. Will dated January 8, 1812; proved April 22, 1812. Heirs: sons,
                        Thomas, Nathan, Jesse; daughter, Lydia Bell; granddaughters, Sarah and Lydia Symons. Owned land
                        in section 22, township 16 north, range 12 east. Executors: son Jesse and John Smith. Witnesses:
                        William Pike, Daniel Trimble. 
                            Wayne County
                         Will Records, 1812-30, pp. 1-2.
                    
                  Little, Jacob, Sr. Will dated November 24, 1812; proved February 22, 1813.
                        Heirs: wife, Hannah Little; children, Abraham, Lewis, Peter, Jacob, Charity Barfield, Mary
                        March, Christina Jones; grandson, Laban Garner. Executor: George Hunt. Witnesses: Jacob Rupe,
                        Henry Fender, William Durham. Ibid., 2-4.
                    
                  Sutherland, William. Will dated March 25, 1815; proved July 17, 1815. Heirs:
                        wife, Lydia Sutherland; children, John, William, Betsy, David, Hannah, Anna, Forger, Nancy.
                        Executors: Andrew Woods, son John. Witnesses: George Hunt, Joseph Davisson. Ibid., 4-5.
                    
                  Way, Henry. Will dated May 29, 1815; proved October Term 1815. Heirs: wife,
                        Charloty; sons, Seth, Joseph, Paul, Nathan; daughters, Rachel Way, Lydia Frisbee (?), Mary
                        Brock; younger children, Anne, Charloty, Henry, William. Executors: wife and son Seth.
                        Witnesses: James Morrison, Benjamin Hutchens, Joseph Ladd. Ibid., 5-7.
                    
                  Fouts, Daniel. Will dated September 25, 1815; proved February 26, 1816. Heirs:
                        wife, Sally; daughters, Polly, Sally; sons, Noah, Jesse. Owned northwest quarter of section 18,
                        township 12 north, range 1 west. Executor: George Hunt. Witnesses: Andrew Fouts, Isaac Esteb.
                            Ibid., 7-8.
                    
                  Whitehead, Lazarus. Will dated February 4, 1815; proved January 31, 1816.
                        Heirs: wife, Martha; children, Lazarus, John, Martha Hunt, Polly Hunt. Owned land in 
                            North Carolina
                        . Executors: sons John and Lazarus. Witnesses: John Ellis, Stephen Williams. Ibid., 9-10.
                    
                  Bonine, Daniel. Will dated September 25, 1815; proved August 5, 1816. Heirs:
                        wife, Mary; children of deceased daughter, Mary John; daughters, Hannah Copeland, Elizabeth
                        Burgher, Sarah Jones, Rachel Williams, Rebeckah Hoover, Ann, Lydia; sons, David, Isaac, Thomas,
                        and James. Member of Friends Church. Executors: sons David and Isaac. Witnesses: Jonathan
                        Townsend, David Willis, Jonathan Brattain. Ibid., 10-11.
                    
                  Lewis, William. Will dated March 13, 1816; proved June 1, 1816. Heirs: wife,
                        Hannah; children, Martha, Thomas, William, Elizabeth, James, Preston (?) Applebury, Cynthia
                        Lewis. Member of Friends 
                     * Dorothy Riker is an editor on the Staff of the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana.
                     
                        1 Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 (Indiana) Will Records, 1812-30, made for the Society of Indiana Pioneers
                                in 1943 and deposited in the Archives Division of the Indiana State Library.
                  
                         Church. Executors: wife, Nathan Farlow, Samuel Stover.
                        Witnesses: Richard G. Paris, Lewis L. Canada, Garizon (?) Dawson. Ibid.,
                        12-13.
                    
                  Hawkins, John. Will not dated; proved March 5, 1816. Heirs: wife (name not
                        given); children, Nathan, James, Martha Comer, Mary Comer, Sarah Cook, Ann Hawkins, Rebecca
                        Hawkins, Tamar (or Lamar) Smith, Lydia Wright, William. Owned land in 
                            South Carolina
                         on a branch of Tyger River called Long Run and in section 27
                        & 28 on Whitewater River. Executors: sons Amos and John (not mentioned in list of
                        heirs). Witnesses: Jacob Jessop, William McClain, Isaac Jessop. Ibid., 13-14.
                    
                  Price, William. Will dated April 26 (?), 1817; proved May 3, 1817. Heirs: wife,
                        Sally, and children (names not given). Executors: Abijah Cain, Caleb Smith. Witnesses: George
                        Smith, — Cox. Ibid., 27.
                    
                  
                            
                                Greene
                            
                         (or Grave?), Jacob. Will dated February 13, 1817;
                        proved June 2, 1817. Heirs: granddaughters, Esther and Lydia, daughters of deceased son, John;
                        daughter-in–law, Mary, widow of son John; sons, Enos, Jonathan, Jacob, Nathan.
                        Executor: son Jacob. Witnesses: John Thomas, William Starbuck, Jeremiah Cox, Jr. Ibid., 28-29.
                    
                  Willis, Jesse. Will dated May 5, 1817; proved October 13, 1817. Heirs: wife,
                        Sarah; children, Isaac, John, David, William, Jesse, Rachel, Mary. Executors: John Canaday, son
                        Isaac. Witnesses: Elihu Swain, John Canaday. Ibid., 29-31.
                    
                  Higgins, William. Letters of administration in the estate of Higgins granted to
                        Jehu Perkins, January 27, 1818. Ibid., 32.
                    
                  Hunt, Samuel. Letters of administration in the estate of Hunt granted to Beal
                        Butler and Caleb Harvey, November 27, 1817. Ibid., 32-33.
                    
                  Porter, Jerry. Letters of administration in the estate of Porter granted to
                        Thomas Brierly, February 24, 1818. Ibid., 33-34.
                    
                  Miller, Christian. Will dated March 27, 1818; proved May Term 1818. Heirs:
                        wife, Catharina; sons, Adam, Samuel, Henry, Isaac, and Christian; daughters, Elizabeth,
                        Catharina, Polly, and Aree (?). No executor named. No witnesses. Ibid., 35-36.
                    
                  Smithson, Josiah. Letters of administration in the estate of Smith-son granted
                        to Caleb Smith and Joseph Ratliff, July 13, 1818.
                    
                  Hunt, Charles. Will dated June 17, 1814; proved November 19, 1818. Heirs:
                        daughters, Polly, Rebecca, Sally, Nancy, Caty; sons, Jonathan, James, George, John, Timothy,
                        Smith, William, Charles, Stephen G. Executors: sons Jonathan, James, and Timothy. Witnesses:
                        John Ring, Nathan Roysden, Benjamin Brown. Ibid., 37-38.
                    
                  Hollett, Mark, of 
                            Waterloo
                        , 
                            Wayne
                         Co. Will dated October 15, 1818; recorded November 9, 1818. Heirs: wife, Ann
                        Newsom, and children (names not given). Executors: Asahel Woodward, John Mc-Combs. Witnesses:
                        Charles H. Stanly, Eli Heaton, Catherine McCarty. Ibid., 39.
                    
                  Alderson, William. Letters of administration in estate of Alderson granted to
                        John Gailbreath, November 24, 1818. Ibid., 40.
                    
                  Hollet, George. Letters of administration in estate of Hollett granted to
                        Thomas Hollett, December 8, 1818. Ibid., 40.
                    
                    
                  Young, Jesse. Letters of administration in estate of Young granted to William
                        Young and Moses Martindale, January 16, 1819. Ibid., 41.
                    
                  Elliott, 
                                Israel
                            
                  . Will dated January 4, 1819; proved May 3, 1819. Heirs: wife, Wilmet (?);
                        son, Jacob; daughters, Eve Shoemaker, Esther, Rose, Edith. Executors: Jacob Elliott, George
                        Holman, John Maxwell. Witnesses: Jacob N. Booker, Samuel Booker. Ibid., 42.
                    
                  Bundy, Joseph. Will dated August 27, 1817; proved May 10, 1819. Heirs: sons,
                        Nathan, George, Josiah; daughters, Sarah Bell, Mary Delon, Gulielma Morris, and Charity (?)
                        Morris; granddaughters: Mary Morris, wife of Joshua Morris, Elizabeth Henley, wife of 
                            Jordan
                         Henley. Executors: George and Josiah. Witnesses: Isaac Willits, Loring A. Waldo,
                        Jehoshaphat Morris. Ibid., 43-44.
                
         
         
         
            Query 135 
                        Where in Indiana are the graves of: Charles Carrico, born about 1770-75, and wife? Charles
                            Carrico and brother Josiah Carrico, were in 
                                Knox County
                             (court records) in 1805. They were in 
                                Sullivan County
                             (census records) 1820-30-40. Margaret Carrico, daughter of Charles Carrico,
                            married James Anderson Wilson. They lived in 
                                Kentucky
                             in 1832, later moved to 
                                Greene County
                            , Indiana, and on to 
                                Ozark County
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            . Margaret Carrico's brother Josiah Carrico married Jane Williams (was
                            she sister to Billy Blue Jeans?) Reward of $5.00 for first absolute proof of
                            parents of Margaret Carrico, bible record of Charles and wife and children, or any legal
                            record.
                        Who were the parents of William J. James and brothers Jesse B. and Rollin James, Jr. They
                            were in 
                                Putnam County
                             early in 1800 since they built their cabins not far from Brick Chapel (History of 
                                    Putnam County
                                
                     , Weik). Court records show William J. James married Sarah Frazier in 
                                Monroe County
                             in 1821. Was she his second wife? What was the name of the first wife of
                            William J. James? Was she buried near Brick Chapel? Were the above men sons of Rollin James,
                            revolutionary war soldier, buried in 
                                Huntsville
                            , 
                                Tennessee
                            ? John James, born 1818, in 
                                Kentucky
                            , married in Indiana in 1836, Byriah Skidmore, daughter of Joseph Skidmore and
                            wife Mary Barker Skidmore. This Skidmore family had seven sets of twins and seven singly
                            born children. Does anyone having Skidmore or James data have names of parents of John
                            James? Was he son of William J. James, given in data? Anyone having information on either
                            Carrico or James family please contact
                    
            
            Mrs. Tessie James Miller 2821 N.W. 25th
                    
                        Oklahoma City
                    , 
                        Oklahoma
                    
            
            Query 136 
                        I should like to correspond with any of the Merriman families in 
                                Virginia
                             in the following counties: 
                                Henrico
                            , 
                                Goochland
                            , 
                                Cumberland
                            , 
                                Mecklenburg
                            , 
                                Amelia
                            , 
                                Dinwiddie
                            , 
                                Powhatan
                            , and 
                                Lunenburg
                            , concerning the early settlers. Also I would like to correspond with Merrimans
                            in the vicinity of 
                                Woodstock
                            , 
                                Strasburg
                            , 
                                Middletown
                            , and 
                                Winchester
                            .
                    
            
            Mrs. Frederick C. Mertens 1014 Cameron Street
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     3, Indiana
         
      
   
