
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 94, Issue 2, pages 85-196. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:94+issue:2+year:1998&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            In Search of the Real Maclure
            Josephine Mirabella Elliott
            Donald E. Pitzer∗
            
            William Maclure (1763–1840) lived a remarkable yet enigmatic life.1
                    For more than half a century he effectively pursued his interests in business, science, and social
                    reform on two continents. Born in Ayr, 
                        Scotland
                    , on October 27, 1763, Maclure studied briefly with a tutor and in public school. In
                    1778 at age fifteen he began his lifelong travels with his first of many visits to the 
                        United States
                    , attending to the American merchandising interests of his father. By 1782 William began
                    his own import-export business when he took a trip to make contacts in 
                        New York City
                    . That year he joined the 
                        London
                     trading firm of Miller, Hart & Company. Stimulated by the ideas of the American
                    and French revolutions, he spent time in both countries during their times of transformation. In
                    1796 he became a 
                        United States
                     citizen and established a residence and a firm, Maclure & Company (later
                    Maclure & Robinson), in 
                        Philadelphia
                    .
            By 1800 the thirty-seven-year-old Maclure had amassed enough money to permit him to turn his
                    attention to the two growing interests that occupied the rest of his life: the new science of
                    geology and educational reform to improve the lives of the working classes. The next fifteen years
                    found Maclure making geological surveys of the natural resources of Europe and America. With
                    remarkable stamina he collected mineral specimens and rocks from a wide variety of regions. These
                    stretched from the British Isles to Russia, from the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean Sea, and
                    throughout the eastern 
                        United States
                     from the St. Lawrence River to 
                        Georgia
                     and from the Mississippi River to the Atlantic Ocean. As early as
                    1809 when Maclure read his paper "Observations on the Geology of the 
                        United States
                    , Explanatory of a Geological Map" to the American Philosophical Society in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , he had already completed enough scientific exploration to justify his later
                    recognition as "the Father of American Geology."2
            
            
               
                  ∗ Josephine Mirabella Elliott is archivist emerita of the
                        University of Southern Indiana, 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, and Donald E. Pitzer is professor and chair in the History Department at
                        the University of Southern Indiana.
               
                  1 Summaries of Maclure's life and work appear in John S. Doskey, ed., The European Journals of William Maclure (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1988), xv-lvii, and Josephine Mirabella Elliott, ed., Partnership for
                            Posterity: The Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot, 1820-1833 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1994), xv-xxiv, 1-20.
               
                  2 Maclure's 1809 paper appeared in Transactions of the
                            American Philosophical Society, VI (1809), 411-28.
            
            
            Geology, however, was only one of the passions of the second half of Maclure's life; education was
                    the other. He conceived of education in the broadest sense. He saw political, economic, and social
                    reform taking place only as education moved beyond such classical subjects as Greek and Latin for
                    the upper classes to practical knowledge that would transform the lives and social position of
                    common workmen and their families. In the early nineteenth century William Maclure became one of the
                    most ardent advocates of the modern teaching methods of Swiss educator Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi.
                    He sponsored schools based on Pestalozzi's system in 
                  Spain,
                            France
               , and America. In the 
                        Philadelphia
                     area he supported the earliest Pestalozzian teachers and schools in this country.
                    Joseph Neef, William S. Phiquepal, and Marie Duclos Fretageot each directed a separate school before
                    1825.
            Maclure then enticed them and other Pestalozzian educators to join him in Robert Owen's utopian
                    experiment in character formation at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana. It was the biggest gamble of his life. By combining his educational,
                    scientific, and financial resources with Owen's socialistic communal effort to begin the New Moral
                    World at 
                        New Harmony
                    , he hoped to realize his dream of raising the standard of living of the working poor in
                    the Industrial Age.
            He convinced several of the most important members of the American Philosophical Society and the
                    Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                     (of which he was president) to take up residence in Owen's utopia on the 
                        Wabash
                    . A few, including naturalists Charles-Alexandre Lesueur and Thomas Say, made the icy
                    trip down the Ohio River in 1825 on Maclure's now-famous "Boatload of
                    Knowledge."
            The Owenite experiment in community-building at 
                        New Harmony
                     lasted only two years. During that brief time, however, Maclure and his Pestalozzian
                    teachers placed 
                        New Harmony
                    's schools in the vanguard of education in America. They operated an Infant School for
                    children as young as two, replicating Owen's program at New Lanark, and conducted classes in the
                    Pestalozzian style for those six to fourteen. They introduced Maclure's concept of vocational
                    training in the School of Industry, one of the two earliest such institutions in America. In the
                    school boys learned printing and other trades, publishing noteworthy volumes of the research of 
                        New Harmony
                     and other scientists on their own press. Maclure brought 
                        New Harmony
                     scientists and master tradesmen into the classroom and into a program of lectures for
                    adults. Long after the abandonment of Owenite communalism in 1827 and the departure of its feuding
                    partners—Owen in 1827, Maclure in 1828—
                        New Harmony
                     remained a monument to Maclure as a center for Scientific research and publication. For
                    decades the village bore Maclure's geological stamp. It became a base for the state and federal
                    geological surveys led by David Dale Owen that opened the Midwest for industrial development.
            
            In addition, 
                        New Harmony
                     gave Maclure the opportunity to begin his own experiment in educating the general
                    public by means of libraries for workingmen. The Workingmen's Institute in 
                        New Harmony
                    , for which William Maclure donated the initial funding in 1838, continues today as the
                    oldest functioning library in the state of Indiana. Yet this single library does not define the
                    extent of Maclure's contribution to education in the Midwest. After he died in Mexico on March 23,
                    1840, his will provided $500 gifts that eventually went to 144 workingmen's libraries in
                    Indiana and 16 libraries in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Regardless of these achievements, the details of Maclure's life and the significance of his work have
                    only recently been effectively excavated from the bedrock of European and American history.
                    Maclure's place as a pioneer of geologic exploration was scarcely acknowledged before 1925 when
                    Charles Keyes published his article "William Maclure: Father of Modern
                        Geology."3 The magnitude of Maclure's European geological
                    explorations and some of his ideas came to light when John Doskey edited The European
                        Journals of William Maclure in 1988. Additional insights into Maclure's private life and
                    social thought emerged in 1994 from the archives of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute when Josephine Elliott edited Partnership for
                        Posterity: The Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                        1820–1833. Maclure's scientific, philosophical, and reform writings, as
                    extensive as they are, remain largely hidden from public view.4 Furthermore,
                    "the Father of American Geology" still awaits a biographer.
            The essays in this issue of the Indiana Magazine of History are intended to bring
                    readers another step closer to discovering the real Maclure. They originated as papers presented in
                    special sessions devoted to an assessment of Maclure's contributions to science, education, and
                    social reform. These sessions were held in 
                        New Harmony
                     during the 1993 international conference held jointly as the twentieth annual meeting
                    of the Communal Studies Association and the fourth triennial meeting of the International Communal
                    Studies Association.
            In the first essay, "'The Spirit of Improvement': The America of William Maclure and Robert
                    Owen," Daniel Feller, associate professor of history at the University of 
                        New Mexico
                    , puts Maclure and Owen in the context of the times and of the reform ideas of
                    Jacksonian America. In his article on "The 
                        Spain
                     William Maclure Knew," 
                  
                     3 Charles Keyes, "William Maclure: Father of Modern
                            Geology," Pan-American Geologist, XLIII (September, 1925), 81-94.
                  
                     4 These include Maclure's Observations on the Geology of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                … (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1817), Opinions on Various Subjects, Dedicated to the Zndustrious
                                Producers (3 vols., 
                                New Harmony
                            , Ind., 1831–1838), and his many articles in 
                                New Harmony
                            's newspaper, Disseminator of Useful Knowledge.
                  
               
                     Alberto Gil Novales, professor of contemporary history at Madrid
                    University in 
                        Spain
                    , gives an account of Maclure's frustrating connection to 
                        Spain
                     through his travels and educational efforts during the country's turbulent three-year
                    period of liberal government.
            "William Maclure's Boatload of Knowledge" by Donald E. Pitzer, professor and chair
                    in the History Department and director of the Center for Communal Studies at the University of
                    Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    , details the historic importance of the migration of notable educators and scientists
                    from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to Robert Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                    . In his "The Boatload of Trouble: William Maclure and Robert Owen
                    Revisited," Charles Burgess, professor of history of education emeritus at the University
                    of 
                        Washington
                    , Seattle, points out the inevitable difficulties that issued from mixing two social
                    reformers with differing views on the methods to achieve their ends, if not on the ends themselves.
            The sixth essay, "William Maclure's Impact on Geological Science after the 
                        New Harmony
                     Experiment," by Markes E. Johnson, professor and chair in the Geoscience
                    Department at Williams College, Williamstown, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , outlines the contributions of pioneer geologists William Maclure and Amos Eaton, who
                    were dedicated to educational systems in which geology took an important place and who founded the 
                        New Harmony
                     School of Industry and the 
                        Rensselaer
                     School in 
                  Troy, New York
               , respectively. "William Maclure as
                    Publisher in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Reform Tradition" describes the quality and significance of the scientific and
                    philosophical publications produced on the 
                        New Harmony
                     press by the boys of Maclure's School of Industry. This essay was prepared jointly by
                    Ian MacPhail, until 1993 research fellow and curator of rare books of the Sterling Morton Library of
                    the Morton Arboretum in Lisle, 
                        Illinois
                    , and Marjorie Sutton, formerly librarian of the Kingwood Center of Mansfield, 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The final essay, "William Maclure: Patron Saint of Indiana Libraries," is by
                    Josephine Mirabella Elliott, former librarian of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute and archivist emerita of the University of Southern Indiana. It
                    tells the tangled and triumphant story of the 160 public libraries created from the educational
                    concerns and last will and testament of William Maclure. This final gift to the people of Indiana
                    and 
                        Illinois
                     instilled the public library concept in the Midwest.
            The editors gratefully recognize a grant from the Endowment for 
                        New Harmony
                     Studies of the University of Southern Indiana to assist in the editing of these essays.
                    Thanks also go to Bernard W. Sheehan for his interest in this project, to his staff for their
                    helpful services, to Jane Johansen for critically reading the manuscripts, and to Mary Hayden of the
                    University of Southern Indiana Center for Communal Studies for efficient clerical assistance.
         
         
         
            "The Spirit Of Improvement": The America of William Maclure and Robert Owen
            Daniel Feller∗
            
            In February and March of 1825, Robert Owen of New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , delivered two lectures on "A New System of Society" in the 
                        United States
                     Capitol in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. His audience included the best of 
                        Washington
                     society—senators, congressmen, cabinet officers, Supreme Court justices, and
                    the outgoing and incoming presidents of the 
                        United States
                    . Owen was in 
                        Washington
                     enroute to 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, where he planned to launch a community that would begin the remaking of the
                    world. At the distant 
                        New Harmony
                    , Owen told the assembled dignitaries in the Capitol, he would "commence a new
                    empire of peace and good will to man, founded on other principles, and leading to other practices
                    than those of the past or present, and which principles, in due season, and in the allotted time,
                    will lead to that state of virtue, intelligence, enjoyment, and happiness, in practice, which has
                    been foretold by the sages of past times."1
            
            Owen's lectures and their reception reveal much, not only about the man but also about the 
                        United States
                     in 1825. Owen and his fellow philanthropist William Maclure, who would join the
                    undertaking in the fall of that year, saw themselves standing at a critical juncture in history.
                    They believed that the age in which they lived and the reforms they undertook were fraught with
                    significance for humanity's future. Temperamentally, the two men were a study in contrast. Maclure,
                    far more cautious and skeptical, lacked Owen's charismatic personality and penchant for oratory. Yet
                    in a quieter and more subdued way, Maclure was a visionary too. Like Owen, he believed absolutely in
                    the coming of a better world and in his ability to help fashion it.
            Maclure's redoubtable optimism led him to see opportunities to rebuild society everywhere, even in
                    autocratic 
                        Spain
                     and anarchic Mexico. But it was America that drew forth his and Owen's highest hopes.
                    "A new era is commenced on your side of the Atlantic," Maclure wrote to his
                    protege, Pestalozzian educator Marie Duclos Fretageot, 
                  
                     ∗ Daniel Feller is associate professor of history,
                            University of 
                                New Mexico
                            , Albuquerque, and author of The Jacksonian Promise: America,
                                1815–1840 (1995).
                  
                     1 Robert Owen, A Discourse on a New System of Society, as
                                Delivered in the Hall Of Representatives of the 
                                    United States
                                … (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1825), 13.
               
                     in 1823. "The aurora of reason breaks out on a most
                    extensive hori-son. The sun will follow, and the diffusion of Knowledge will be as unbounded as his
                    light." Both he and Owen, Maclure wrote a year later, considered "the field of
                    moral experiment in the 
                        United States
                     to be the finest in the Globe." America was already the world's
                    "purest and most rational Society," hence the ideal place to implement plans for
                    social improvement.2
            
            Americans themselves could not have agreed more. Since the founding of the colonial settlements,
                    America had been a place to start over, to erect a new and perfected society. The Revolution
                    powerfully reinforced Americans' sense of standing on the leading edge of progress. In Common Sense, the pamphlet that galvanized the movement toward independence in 1776,
                    Thomas Paine announced, "We have it in our power to begin the world over again….
                    The birthday of a new world is at hand." The Great Seal of the 
                        United States
                     proclaimed a Novus Ordo Seclorum-—"A New Order of
                    the Ages."3
            
            In the mid-1820s American self-confidence soared to new heights. Like Owen and Maclure, citizens saw
                    themselves and their country as marking a new epoch in history. In America alone, they believed,
                    humanity had thrown off the chains of oppression and tyranny. While royalty and aristocracy still
                    ruled Europe and its colonial possessions, in America most people lived not as subjects but as
                    citizens—enlightened, prosperous, and free. As Maclure and Owen began their work at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1825, a concatenation of momentous events—the triumphant return of the
                    Revolutionary hero Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                    , the completion of the Erie Canal, which was hailed by its builders as "a work
                    more stupendous, more magnificent, and more beneficial than has hitherto been achieved by the human
                    race," and the forthcoming Jubilee celebration of American independence—seemed
                    to herald the dawning of a new era.4
            
            "The spirit of improvement is abroad upon the earth," President John Quincy Adams
                    declared in December, 1825. Americans believed their unique combination of political freedom and
                    material abundance would enable them to lead the world in the march of what Adams called
                    "moral, political, intellectual improvement."5 Wealth,
                    intelligence, wisdom, and virtue would all advance together.
            In conceiving of progress as indivisible, and thus in linking together improvements in education,
                    science, and social organization, 
                  
                     2 William Maclure to Marie Duclos Fretageot, November 20, 1823, August
                            25, September 10, 1824, in Josephine Mirabella Elliott, ed., Partnership for
                                Posterity: The Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                                1820–1833 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1994), 249, 297, 300.
                  
                     3 Thomas Paine, Common Sense, in Thomas
                                Paine: Collected Writings, ed. Eric Foner (
                                New York
                            , 1995), 52-53.
                  
                     4 David Hosack, Memoir ofDe Witt Clinton (
                                New York
                            , 1829), 420.
                  
                     5 James D. Richardson, ed., A Compilation of the Messages
                                and Papers of the Presidents, 1789-1897 (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1895), II, 311, 316.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM MACLURE AND CHARLES-ALEXANDRE LESUEUR ABOARD THE
                            LOUISA
                     
                            IN LATE FALL 1815 SKETCH BY CHARLES-ALEXANDRE LESUEUR
                  
                  Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle du Havre, Le Havre, 
                                France
                             #38003).
               
                     Maclure and Owen embodied the American spirit of the age.
                    American optimism melded national pride and civic boosterism with Enlightenment faith in the power
                    of reason and the unity of truth. Patriot scientists such as Benjamin Silliman of Yale and 
                        New Harmony
                    's Thomas Say hoped their discoveries would vindicate a democratic people's claim to
                    intellectual distinction. Every town promoter shared William Maclure's hope of making his community
                    "an Emporium of arts and Sciences" of international renown.6
            
            Beginning in the 1820s, American belief in the malleability and perfectibility of human nature
                    powered a range of benevolent enterprises from "civilizing" the Indians to
                    reclaiming wayward individuals in asylums, orphanages, and prisons. Citizens placed great faith in
                    the possibilities of education. They believed they could transform the national character by raising
                    a generation of improved human beings. American prisons that aimed at rehabilitation instead of mere
                    punishment became a magnet for foreign visitors. Plans appeared for schools of all
                    sorts—free schools, manual labor schools, female academies. In education, as in every
                    other area, Americans intended to lead the world. They believed that every new step they took toward
                    human improvement would exalt both republican government in principle and the 
                        United States
                     as its living embodiment.7
            
            The Americans' belief in themselves as a people set apart for a special purpose thus ensured a
                    receptive hearing for the ideas of Robert Owen and William Maclure. In the heady atmosphere of 1825,
                    nearly anything seemed possible. Both grand and vague, Owen's call for a "new system of
                    society" matched Americans' own immoderate expectations for themselves.
            Proclaiming utopia, however, proved easier than building it. Owen's dream foundered quickly at 
                        New Harmony
                    , the victim of poor planning and unrealistic expectations. After two contentious years
                    his prematurely declared Community of Equality dissolved. Although Owen was unbowed by the disaster,
                    the miracle-worker reputation he had brought to America from New Lanark was spoiled beyond repair.
            Meanwhile, at 
                        New Harmony
                     William Maclure quietly continued with his sponsorship of schools and scientific
                    research. Although Maclure shared Owen's hope of regenerating humanity, he came to regard Owen
                    himself as a charlatan swept off his senses by his own 
                  
                     6 Maclure to Benjamin Tappan, May 4, 1827, Benjamin Tappan Papers
                            (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.). On geologist/chemist Benjamin Silliman, professor at Yale and founding
                            editor of the American Journal of Science and Arts, see John C. Greene,
                                American Science in the Age of Jefferson (Ames, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1984) and George H. Daniels, American Science in the Age of
                                Jackson (
                                New York
                            , 1968). On 
                                New Harmony
                             entomologisb'conchologist Thomas Say, see Patricia Tyson Stroud, Thomas Say: New World Naturalist (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1992).
                  
                     7 On Jacksonian-era reform, see Alice Felt Tyler, Freedom's Ferment (
                                New York
                            , 1944) and Ronald G. Walters, American Reformers,
                                1815–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1978).
               
                     rhetoric. With a less sanguine view of human nature, Maclure had
                    always doubted that communitarian schemes and charismatic leadership could instantly transform
                    society. Instead, he invested in education and science as slower but surer roads to the same end.
            Yet in their efforts to build schools and to spread knowledge among the citizenry, Maclure and his 
                        New Harmony
                     agent, Marie Duclos Fretageot, also encountered mounting frustration and
                    disappointment. Given the American enthusiasm for individual and social uplift, why did their
                    program founder? The answer is ironic, for the same democratic and optimistic milieu that nurtured
                    Maclure's and Fretageot's hopes also nourished the germs of their failure. Americans chorused
                    Maclure's faith in the perfectibility of their society, but it became increasingly clear that they
                    differed with him in their vision of what a perfected society should be.
            Maclure had always linked his scientific and educational pursuits to political ends. Along with his
                    faith in progress, he took from the Enlightenment a profoundly Manichean view of social evolution.
                    Maclure saw starkly opposing forces of light and darkness contending for control in Europe, in
                    Mexico, and even in the 
                        United States
                    . Some elements in his analysis—his attack on the commercial classes and his
                    championing of the common people as the real producers of wealth—seem to anticipate Man.
                    But neither his diagnosis of social ills nor his cure were solely economic. The real root of
                    injustice and distress, Maclure believed, was not the upper class's control of wealth or production,
                    but its monopoly of knowledge.
            As his friend Thomas Say observed, Maclure was "thoroughly convinced, by all his experience
                    that the inequality of knowledge is the source of all the evils that torment humanity." The
                    masthead of Maclure's Disseminator of Useful Knowledge at 
                        New Harmony
                     proclaimed that "Ignorance is the fruitful cause of Human Misery."
                    Educating the rich would only widen the gulf between the rulers and the ruled. But by the same
                    token, as Maclure told his friend Samuel George Morton, "raising the mass of industrious
                    producers by the diffusion of useful knowledge" would equalize both property and power, and
                    thus secure "freedom and happiness" for all mankind.8
            
            Naturally, the "aristocracy" (a favorite epithet of Maclure and his friends) would
                    not willingly relinquish their hold on either knowledge or power. "Ignorance,"
                    Maclure observed, "is the food, clothing, and only support of every description of
                    priest." It maintained and fortified "the priveledges, imunities, and
                    consideration of all men in power, and 9/10 of the rich and influential in all countries."
                    By keeping the masses ignorant, the aristocracy kept them down. Its chief instruments of control
                    were the coercive force of the state and the doctrinal 
                  
                     8 Thomas Say to Benjamin Tappan, August 30, 1827, and William Maclure
                            to Samuel George Morton, March 26, 1835, in Science in Nineteenth-Century
                                America: A Documentary History, ed. Nathan Reingold (
                                Chicago
                            , 1964), 34, 53.
               
                     authority of the Church—in Maclure's terms,
                    "king-craft and priest craft."9
            
            But in America the chains had been broken, first by the Revolution that overthrew the principle of
                    aristocratic rule and later by the democratic upheaval that spread suffrage to the people and in
                    1828 made Andrew Jackson president. Maclure shared much in outlook and rhetoric with the
                    Jacksonians; and though he was never politically active himself, he and his associates Thomas Say,
                    Marie Duclos Fretageot, Robert Dale Owen, and Frances Wright all identified with Jackson and his
                    Democratic party. Jackson too assailed the "aristocracy" at every turn, and his
                    clashes with the Congregational-Presbyterian phalanx of benevolent and charitable organizations
                    mirrored the New Harmonists' hostility to clerical authority.10
            
            Yet, as Maclure never fully grasped, "aristocracy" is in the eye of the beholder.
                    In his schemes of social uplift Maclure repeatedly found himself frustrated by what he termed
                    "the obstinacy of schoolmasters the ignorance of parents, and the intolerant bigotry of
                        priestcraft."11 Maclure's earnest devotion to the welfare of the
                    working people blinded him to his own dogmatism. Wishing only to educate the laboring masses to
                    their true interest, he never doubted that he knew what was best for them himself.
            Both Maclure and Owen assumed that with political liberty secured, Americans' most pressing
                    need—the prerequisite to any further advance in their status, knowledge, and
                    power—was to sever themselves from religion and its web of superstition and terror. Their
                    Enlightenment view of history taught Maclure and Owen that the Church and its minions had always
                    fought social and intellectual progress. Hence both men branded organized Christianity as their
                    worst enemy. In his famous "Declaration of Mental Independence" at 
                        New Harmony
                     on July 4, 1826, Owen denounced "ABSURD AND IRRATIONAL SYSTEMS OF
                    RELIGION" as one of the three greatest evils besetting the human race.12
            
            While Owen railed publicly, Maclure sought to replace religious indoctrination with "useful
                    knowledge," disseminated through scientific publications for adults and practical schooling
                    for children. 
                  
                     9 Maclure to Fretageot, August 28, 1821, in Elliott, Partnership for Posterity, 144; Maclure quoted in John F. C. Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World: Robert Owen and the Owenites in Britain and
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 40.
                  
                     10 Jackson and the Democrats clashed with evangelical Christians over
                            the Peggy Eaton affair, Indian removal, Sabbatarianism, and slavery. See Daniel Feller, The Jacksonian Promise: America, 1815–1840 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1995), 178-83.
                  
                     11 Maclure to Morton, March 26, 1835, in Reingold, Science in Nineteenth-Century America, 53.
                  
                     12 Robert Owen, "Oration Containing a Declaration of Mental
                            Independence," 
                                New Harmony
                            
                            Gazette, July 12, 1826, reprinted in Donald E. Pitzer and Josephine M.
                            Elliott, eds., 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                's Fourth of July Tradition (
                                New Harmony
                            , Ind., 1976), 10.
               
                     Yet although his ideas of experiential education and of
                    practical application of technical knowledge would later gain wide acceptance, Maclure's efforts
                    yielded little direct result. Maclure worked on a small scale and never learned how best to reach
                    the people he was trying to help. There is something inspiring and yet deeeply pathetic in his
                    attempt to get plain farmers and tradespeople to forsake their useless "poetry, history,
                    romance, law, &&tc." for his "real and usefull"
                    scientific and polemical works, and in his bafflement when his offerings did not sell.
            Similarly, Maclure never comprehended the tenacious resistance of parents to his schemes for
                    educating their children. He came finally to believe he could never succeed with pupils from the
                    "independent classes," who had ideas and interests of their own. In place of these
                    "defective materials," he sought "orphans who have no parents to depend
                    on, or to spoil them," and with whom he could play a free hand. Here, too, Maclure's
                    sincerity of purpose blinded him to the implicit authoritarianism of his own position.13
            
            In short, like any reformer, Maclure had to contend with peoples' reluctance to be reformed.
                    Everywhere they tried their hands, even in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Maclure and his associates met indifference and even hostility from the ordinary
                    people they were trying to help. For this, Maclure's system of social analysis offered no ready
                    explanation. How could the people not want what was best for them? Only stubbornness or stupidity
                    could explain their rebuff of his offer to elevate their condition and set their minds free.
            As Maclure perceived, the real root of his difficulty lay in religion. When Marie Duclos Fretageot in
                    1825 remarked "the evils which surround my pupils" in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , she meant mainly the religious opinions of her neighbors. One of those neighbors, the 
                        Quaker
                     Deborah Logan, savaged Robert Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                     "Declaration of Mental Independence" a year later: it was an
                    "impious rhodomontade" full of "poisonous doctrines" and
                    "nefarious disclosures." "How any woman of piety and good feeling can
                    bring herself to stay at his odious settlement, I know not."14
            
            And indeed many could not. As Maclure and Owen discovered, even 
                        New Harmony
                     offered no haven from religious controversy. The reign of what one critic called
                    "nothingism" there brought notoriety abroad and turmoil within. Long after Owen's
                    community collapsed, its reputation for infidelity lingered, poisoning Maclure's efforts to recruit
                    students and to spread his doctrines, and even souring his own family relations. Maclure knew his
                    hatred of preaching cost him tenants 
                  
                     13 Maclure to Fretageot, August 25, 1830 (?), in Elliott, Purtnership for Posterzty, 775.
                  
                     14 Fretageot to Maclure, February 11, 1825, and Deborah Norris Logan
                            diary, July 8, 1826, in ibid., 325, 1050.
               
                    
                    
                  MARIE DUCLOS FRETAGEOT
                  
                  
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
                and scholars among "the religious people," for "Harmony is an
                    eye sore to all sects of Christians."15
            
            Coming from Maclure, this remark was not a lament but a boast. Maclure gloried in keeping preachers
                    out of 
                        New Harmony
                    . The "confusion, falsehood, scandel, and calumny" sown by critics
                    merely fortified his resolve, for "a town to thrive without a church and a priest to preach
                    in it would contradict all the prophesies." Maclure cared nothing for "scandalous
                    falsehoods" spread by self-interested "priests and sectarians." He
                    expected no less from the clerical aristocracy.16
            
            But in America there was no clerical aristocracy. Maclure's fundamental error was to mistake the
                    nature of his religious opposition. It was not, as he thought, the work of a reactionary priestly
                    class, for in the 
                        United States
                     the tenets of Christian faith were not dictated and enforced from above. The religious
                    establishments that still reigned in Europe had crumpled in America in the wake of the Revolution.
            Yet Americans in the 1820s and 1830s were converting to Christianity by the tens of thousands, swept
                    up in a national revival that had been building since the beginning of the century. Cresting in the
                        
                  
                     15 Gabriel Rey to Mr. and Mrs. Victor du Pont, April 13, 1826,
                            Fretageot to Maclure, August 23, 1830, and Maclure to Fretageot, October 30, 1830, in ibid., 1065, 773, 820.
                  
                     16 Maclure to Fretageot, October 30, 1830, and Maclure to Reuben
                            Haines, June 29, 1831, in ibid., 820, 1106.
               
                     years of Maclure's and Owen's activity at 
                        New Harmony
                    , the Awakening also rode the tide of national optimism and faith in progress. Its
                    preachers did not challenge democracy or reason; instead, they embraced both. But they defined human
                    improvement and America's providential mission in explicitly Christian terms; the utopia they sought
                    was the reign of Christ on earth. Preachers like the Presbyterian Lyman Beecher labored in
                    "full belief that the millennium was coming, that it was at hand, that the Church was just
                    about to march with waving banners to final and universal dominion." Using techniques of
                    suasion rather than repression, Christian evangelists strove for free and voluntary conversions, not
                    slavish obedience. Aiming to make the 
                        United States
                     a Christian nation, they launched crusades against drinking, Sabbath-breaking, and
                        slavery.17
            
            The choices facing Americans were dramatized in 1829, when the revivalist Alexander 
                        Campbell
                     debated Robert Owen on the evidences of Christianity before packed crowds in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Both men agreed the millennium was near. But was it Owen's rationalist millennium or 
                        Campbell
                    's religious one? At the end of the eight-day debate 
                        Campbell
                     asked those who believed in Christianity to stand up. An audience of twelve hundred
                    rose as one. In the printed version of the debate, it was Owen who appeared didactic and
                    doctrinaire, while 
                        Campbell
                     seized the high ground of reason and democracy by urging the reader to
                    "reason, examine and judge, like a rational being, for himself."18
            
            It was Owen's and Maclure's misfortune to launch their experiments against the greatest torrent of
                    religious enthusiasm the 
                        United States
                     had ever seen. Locked in his dualistic view of the world, Maclure could never see the
                    revival for what it was: a profoundly popular movement propelled by impulses and hopes that were as
                    progressive and stirring as his own. The great gainers in the Awakening were not old established
                    hierarchies crying damnation and despair, but upstart denominations—Baptists, Methodists,
                    Christians, Disciples, and a dozen others—that spurned authority and tradition to appeal
                    directly to the people. Like Maclure, they, too, preached popular empowerment and liberation, but
                    empowerment and liberation attained through a Christian faith and directed to Christian ends.
                    Shedding or sidestepping the forbidding doctrines of Calvinism, they married Americans' prevailing
                    confidence in progress and improvement to a creed that stressed the hope of individual salvation and
                    the ability of committed Christians to create a better world.
            
               
                  17 Barbara M. Cross, ed., The Autobiography of Lyman
                        Beecher (2 vols., 
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1961), II, 112. On the Awakening, see Nathan O. Hatch, The
                            Democratization of American Christianity (
                            New Haven
                        , 1989) and Robert H. Abzug, Cosmos Crumbling: American Reform and the
                            Religious Imagination (
                            New York
                        , 1994).
               
                  18
                        Debate on the Evidences of Christianity Held in the City of 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , in April 1829, Between Robert Owen & Alexander 
                                Campbell
                            
                   (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1829), 5.
            
            
            The scope and strength of this Christian upheaval baffled and frustrated Maclure and his friends.
                    They believed that destiny favored them. They expected to lead Americans toward a rational future,
                    purged of religious cant and superstition. Instead, without understanding what had happened, they
                    found themselves cast aside as the parade of history took a different route.
            Delivering Maclure's eulogy in 1840 before the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , which Maclure had long served as benefactor and president, his friend Samuel Morton
                    observed that "what Religion itself has not been able to accomplish, Philosophy will
                    attempt in vain." Maclure's philosophy was his faith in reason, a faith so simple and
                    artless that it amounted to a religion of rationality. But from the time of the revival that
                    surrounded and engulfed Owen's and Maclure's reform efforts in the 1820s and 1830s, their
                    Enlightenment cult of reason beat a steady retreat under the renewed onslaught of evangelical
                    Christianity. Although some of Maclure's educational and scientific ideas endured, the philosophy
                    that inspired them—a philosophy not only irreligious but explicitly
                    anti-religious—was overpowered and in time nearly forgotten. A century and a half have
                    passed since Maclure and his fellows scanned the horizon for the dawning of their new day. Yet
                    philosophy has not displaced religion.19
            
            And what of that vision, shared by Owen and Maclure and their Christian adversaries as well, of
                    America as a New Moral World? Although muted and bruised, in some sense it still lives. But as early
                    as the 1830s, events began to undermine American hopes of an imminent millennium. The dissolution of 
                        New Harmony
                    ; the disappointment of other experiments in social engineering such as the one at
                            
                  Lowell, Massachusetts
               ; the Panic and depression of 1837, which destroyed hopes
                    of limitless, seamless economic growth; the deepening impasse over slavery, as white southerners
                    entrenched themselves behind a wall of proslavery repression; the emergence of political parties,
                    implanting the principle of divisiveness instead of harmony at the heart of American politics; the
                    perversion (at least in some eyes) of the country's moral mission in the world into an unseemly
                    thirst for territorial acquisitions—all of these developments served to stifle, if not to
                    extinguish, Americans' expectations of breaking loose from history and erecting something new under
                    the sun. Americans would not stop dreaming and striving for a better world. But never again would
                    that dream seem so tantalizingly close as when Robert Owen stood in the Capitol, with all of
                    official 
                        Washington
                     in attendance, and proclaimed "A New System of Society" in 1825.
            
               
                  19 Samuel George Morton, A Memoir of William Maclure,
                        Esq. (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1841), 29.
            
         
         
         
            The 
                        Spain
                     William Maclure Knew
            Alberto Gil Novales∗
            
            William Maclure traveled to 
                        Spain
                     twice. His first visit was in 1808 just before the Peninsular War, an event that forced
                    him to flee 
                        Spain
                    , where turmoil could not provide fertile ground for his philosophical experiments or
                    extended projects. Maclure's first trip to 
                        Spain
                     was a fruitful experience, however, giving him enough of a taste of the country that he
                    made plans to return as soon as he could. Despite traveling only briefly through 
                        Spain
                    , Maclure left an interesting record of his experience.
            Maclure's journey into 
                        Spain
                     began in southern 
                        France
                    . Coming through Perpignan, he was accompanied by Matthieu Tondi (1762–1837),
                    an Italian geologist and mineralogist who served as his companion throughout his Spanish travels.1 Maclure himself paid all of Tondi's travel expenses.2 His
                    selection of Tondi reveals the character he wanted to give his visit to 
                        Spain
                    : Tondi was a man passionately devoted to science and a patriot persecuted by the
                    authorities of his hometown of Naples.
            Maclure, who entered 
                        Spain
                     on January 24, 1808, took into consideration both the geological features of the
                    landscape as well as the social disposition of the population. Following the coastline, he traveled
                    to the great Mediterranean city of Barcelona, taking note of its beauty, as well as its bustling
                    industry and commerce, and providing commentary on the city's failure to employ the Pestalozzian
                    method of education.3 Maclure commented on a variety of subjects in his travel
                    notes, including the climate, the condition of agriculture, the wages of the cultivators, the
                    prominent Pestalozzian enterprise of Captain Voitel in Tarragona, the "gypsies or
                    bohemians" seen between Benicarló and Alcala de Chivert, the Roman
                    archaeological sites in Sagunto, and the manners of the innkeepers.4 Maclure
                    also 
                  
                     ∗ Alberto Gil Novales is professor of contemporary history,
                            University of Madrid, 
                                Spain
                            .
                  
                     1 John S. Doskey, ed., The European Journals of William
                                Maclure (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1988), 106. Information for this article is derived from this source unless
                            otherwise indicated.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 273.
                  
                     3 Alberto Gil Novales, William Maclure in 
                                    Spain
                                
                     , trans. Alonso Carnicer (Madrid, 1981), 25.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 27-28.
               
                     made observations about the mendicant clergy, whom he described
                    disparagingly as typical representatives of the Ancient Regime: an idle people. He advocated a
                    change in the condition of the clergy so that they would cease to be a social nuisance. Arriving in
                    Alicante, Maclure wrote that his first impression was not very good because of the heavy rainfall,
                    yet the town would eventually become his base in 
                        Spain
                    .5 He immediately liked the society of the city.
            To get to Andalucia he started from Almeria through the back country, where he studied the production
                    of the mines, as was his habit. In a little village on April 30, 1808, a day of solitude, he
                    discovered gazpacho, an Andalusian dish made of bread, oil, vinegar, onions, and
                    garlic (although he may never have learned the word for it). Then he moved to Granada, where he
                    enthusiastically observed not only the crafts and arts of the city but also the influence of liberal
                    ideas of the Age of Reason. He found that the cultivated people there were accustomed to reading
                    Condillac, Volney, and other modern liberal spirits. From there he proceeded to Malaga, with its
                    Malaga wine; to Churriana, the location of the large cotton plantation of William Kirkpatrick; to
                    Marbella, the place of the sugarcane plantation of Henry Grevignee; and finally to the pleasant town
                    of Cadiz. Unable to take the stagecoach to Madrid because of the war, Maclure decided on May 28,
                    1808, to leave the country. "This war is too bad for 
                        Spain
                    ," he wrote.6
            
            Maclure's first visit to 
                        Spain
                     lasted four months. During the trip he met other people in the country besides
                    innkeepers, friars, and gypsies. In his travels Maclure always tried to make contact with the
                    institutions of culture and the important men associated with those institutions. At the physics
                    laboratory in Barcelona's Academy of Natural Sciences and Arts he met Francisco Carbonell y Bravo,
                    the author of a number of books on chemistry and pharmacy and founder of the new School of Chemistry
                    in 1805. In Valencia Maclure was in touch with the Economic Society of the Friends of the Country
                    but was not able to meet Juan Sanchez Cisneros, a scientist, military man, mineralogist, and an
                    indefatigable traveler and publicist. Later Maclure did get to know Cisneros after he carried a
                    letter of introduction from Pestalozzi during his 1820 trip. In Alicante Maclure visited the famous
                    prince pio, a grandee of 
                        Spain
                     and an archaeologist, historian, and philologist who would die soon after in November,
                    1808. At Granada, too, Maclure stopped at the Economic Society of the Friends of the Country and the
                    Academy of Design and Mathematics, a typical center of the Spanish Illustracion.
               7
            
            
               
                  5
                        Ibid., 31-32.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., 41.
               
                  7 For a discussion of the Illustracion, see Paula de
                        Demerson, Jorge Demerson y Francisco mlar Pinal, Las sociedades
                            económicas de Amigos del País en el siglo XVIII: Guía del
                            investigador (San Sebastián, 1974), 91-96; Juan Luis Castellano Castellano,
                            Las sociedades económicas de Amigos del País del Reino de
                            Granada en el siglo XVIII (Granada, 1984).
            
            
            Maclure then visited the cotton plantation of William Kirkpatrick at Churriana and the sugarcane
                    plantation of Henry Grevignee near Malaga. At the time Kirkpatrick was the American consul in Malaga
                    and was married to a daughter of Grevignee, who already had a partly Spanish name, Francisca
                    Grevignee y Gallegos. Kirkpatrick, who was related to Eugenia de Montijo, the future empress of 
                        France
                    , was a man of great initiative. With Grevignee and a third partner he founded in 1810 a
                    textile factory in Malaga at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution in 
                        Spain
                    . But in 1811 Malaga was occupied by the French, and Kirkpatrick made the error of being
                    their strong partisan. This marked the end of his enterprise, but he was still in Granada in 1821,
                    dedicated to the mining industry.
            These people formed the nucleus of Maclure's relationships in 
                        Spain
                     during his first trip. Later in his 1820 visit these relationships deepened. At that
                    time 
                        Spain
                     had launched a liberal revolution, which experimented with a constitutional form of
                    government that lasted until 1823, when 
                        Spain
                     was defeated by a military invasion of French absolutists and the Holy Alliance. The
                    next year, 1824, Maclure left 
                        Spain
                    , attended "by the folly, stupidity and cruelty of despotism."8 His properties were confiscated in 
                        Spain
                    . Maclure's Spanish visit came between two French invasions. As a man who hated all
                    despotism, Maclure came to hate the French style of despotism in particular.
            In 1820 Maclure stayed out of Spanish politics, but he leaned toward the liberal
                    parties—to the Cortes and to the Spanish people in general. The Spanish Revolution ended
                    in failure, but the years between 1820 and 1824 were the culmination of a political transformation
                    that had begun with the end of the Ancient Regime and the Napoleonic invasion of 1808. The Spanish
                    Revolution was unlike the French Revolution, which was a concentrated series of events (the French
                    speak of "évènement fondateur"). The Spanish Revolution
                    moved slowly with sudden flashes that extended through two centuries. The so-called
                    "Trienio liberal" was one of the most important of those fulgurations. Despite the
                    revolution's ultimate disaster, those years prepared 
                        Spain
                     for a transition to a new order in legislation, in the popular mentality, and even in
                    the habits of the population.
            Maclure believed that the Spanish climate, both physical and political, would allow him to initiate a
                    great new experiment near Alicante. His failure was the failure of the Spanish political situation,
                    the failure of 
                  Spain. New
                        Harmony
                would be the new land of social experimentation. What Maclure's
                    Spanish career, his enterprises, journal accounts, and Spanish friendships did accomplish was to
                    provide important means for understanding that beleaguered country.
            Maclure arrived in Madrid in November, 1820, for his second visit and remained in the capital until
                    1822. He was primarily an observer 
                  
                     8 Novales, William Maclure in 
                                    Spain
                                
                     , 96.
               
                    
                    
                  MACLURE'S ESTATE AT ALICANTE, SPAIN
                  
                  Photograph by Alberto Gil Novales. Courtesy of the 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
               
                     of 
                        Spain
                    's political developments, though soon he planned once again to build another kind of
                    world. Maclure's intention was not to descend into politics but to lay down the foundations of a new
                    society. Only then would he become involved in a new kind of political behavior. Most revealing of
                    Maclure's thoughts and actions in 
                        Spain
                     is his correspondence with two Pestalozzian teachers, Marie Duclos Fretageot and
                    William S. Phiquepal. With Maclure's assistance both teachers were in 
                        Paris
                     working in a school for boys. Maclure's relationship with Fretageot was not only
                    professional, it was personal as well. Maclure also had a friendship with the American diplomat
                    George William Erving (1769–1850), who was formerly 
                        United States
                     representative in Madrid (1804–1809 and 1814–1819). To a certain
                    extent Erving was a radical like Maclure, but his affairs in 
                        Spain
                     were based largely on a zealous and ill-conceived interest in buying royal deeds and
                    bonds of the Spanish national debt, which tended to move perennially downward.
            Almost all of Maclure's relationships during this time were related to 
                        Spain
                     and the 
                        United States
                     and constituted a strong tie between the two countries. Fretageot and Phiquepal arrived
                    in 
                        New Harmony
                     with Maclure on the keelboat Philanthropist, which plied the
                        Wabash River in 1825 to inaugurate the social experiments of the
                    Owenite-Maclurian period. Phiquepal later returned to 
                        France
                     and in 1831 married Frances Wright, the famous author of Views of Society
                        and Manners in America (1821) and the inspiration of the antislavery 
                        Nashoba
                     community (1826).
            In 1820 Maclure went to 
                        Spain
                     for both health reasons and political considerations. He found 
                        Spain
                     attractive because it offered a climate salutary for his rheumatism and because out of
                    the political situation a constitutional government had emerged. Maclure liked this form of
                    government. He found the Spanish people in a terrible condition of ignorance, but he hoped that the
                    constitutional regime would help them with education and democracy. He followed the country's
                    political evolution daily, standing with the people against the government, which was officially
                    liberal. In those years Maclure spoke repeatedly of the terrible ignorance of the Spanish masses,
                    but he believed in the force of education and came to admire the great qualities of the Spanish
                    people—their energy and firmness along with their restraint and respect for order.
            Maclure's thoughts on Spanish society are clear. He observed: 
                        Spaniards are as ignorant as any other people, but they have acquired a faith in the value of
                            their own effort after a long and anarchic apprenticeship. For Spaniards, anarchy occupies
                            the place of reason, and it eggs them on to defend their rights without a perfect
                            understanding either of the principles on which they are based or the effects derived from
                            them. In this way anarchy is an advantage. Another advantage is that the ruling classes in 
                                Spain
                             are almost as ignorant as the masses, and because of this are unable to take
                            advantage of their economic superiority. There should always be a balance between knowledge,
                            property, and power, but in 
                                Spain
                             the wealthy classes have no knowledge, only indolence and imbecility, which
                            nullifies their achievements  and makes the illusion
                            that property is more properly distributed. So if 
                                Spain
                             maintained its democratic constitution, the division of property would come
                            about despite all the efforts of the rich to resist it.9
                  
                     The Spanish constitution may have been centuries ahead of the country's civilization, but
                    for Maclure the problem was the effect of the "obstinate habits of pride" and
                    presumption that drove "the lower classes to defend their freedom, that is to say, their
                        anarchy."10
            
            The first thing Maclure tried to do in 
                        Spain
                     was to introduce a printing press and two technicians who would publish the dispatches
                    of the Spanish state department under a contract with the government. It is curious to find Maclure
                    attempting to publish a documentary collection in 
                        Spain
                    . He was not, after all, a historian. Indeed, he adhered to the idea that history was a
                    tale where the adventures of villains are told. Yet, in his view, history also opened the eyes of
                    the simple people. Resolved to print the dispatches, Maclure tried to import from 
                        France
                     a new printing press, which demonstrated his faith in technological progress. Despite
                    several references to the printing press, it is unclear whether or not it finally arrived in 
                        Spain
                    .
            Maclure was interested in translating Joseph Neef's book, Sketch of a Plan and Method of
                        Education (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1808) into French and Spanish. He thought two thousand copies for 
                        Spain
                     and Spanish America would be enough. Even in 
                        Spain
                     Maclure thought not only of the European country but of Spanish America as well. He
                    also wanted to publish some of his political essays written in 1819 in Spanish for the Revue Encyclopddique, but they would not appear because of French censorship. The essays
                    were eventually published in Spanish and appeared later again in English in the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette. Finally they appeared in Maclure's book, Opinions on Various
                        Subjects (
                        New Harmony
                    , 1831). The size of those essays increased from the French translation into Spanish and
                    again into English. The Spanish edition, unfortunately, is full of problems. The essays were
                    published in Madrid, but nothing else is know about them. Perhaps saying published
                    is saying too much, for nobody has seen a single copy. Maclure translated and printed the essays,
                    but it is not certain that he gave them out for distribution. He thought that their themes were too
                    advanced for the Spanish mentality, so he made a leaflet out of his work. He first sent three
                    hundred copies to Fretageot and later another one hundred fifty. It seems he ordered a special
                    publication of only twenty-two pages, and it also seems that they appeared in a newspaper.
            Scholars are on firmer ground in studying Maclure's mining interests in 
                        Spain
                    . Although he approached his mine visits and his collection of minerals scientifically,
                    his intentions were also idealistic. 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 44-45.
                  
                            10
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     His correspondence reveals his confidence in the mines as the
                    potential basis of a future industrial revolution. He was also a financial partner in a silk factory
                    in Valencia, which he spoke of in 1833 and noted in his last will of 1840.
            Between 1820 and 1822 Maclure's relationships were varied. One association that he built was with
                    Rafael de Rodas from Aranjuez, his representative in the region surrounding the Tagus River. Rodas
                    owned a soap factory and was a man of ideas prepared to sell his production in 
                        Spain
                     and Portugal as well as in the 
                        United States
                    . In 1824 he was a member of the Junta de Fomento del Reino, which was a kind of board
                    established to improve the material conditions of the country. In 1838 he became director of the
                    Savings Bank of Madrid.11
            
            Fortunately more information exists on Jacobo Parga y Puga, former minister of the Supreme Council of
                    the Treasury, provisionally appointed minister of the Interior of the Peninsula in March, 1820, and
                    in Maclure's own words, "the only scientific gentleman in Madrid."12 Professor Antonio Meijide Pardo of La Coruna has dedicated a book to Parga y Puga,
                    which follows his studies at Santiago University, his problems with the Inquisition in 1795, his
                    beginnings in the civil service, and his scientific and economic significance at the Museum of
                    Natural Sciences in 1815 and the Credito Publico in 1816. As a naturalist he was known by his work
                    in the museum and for his mineralogical collection. Finally, he was a member of the Cortes in 1834
                    and was a senator in 1845.
            In July, 1822, Maclure was in Madrid, where he witnessed the counterrevolutionary movement, and his
                    descriptions of the movement in letters to Professor Benjamin Silliman of Yale College and to
                    Fretageot are of great interest. After the counterrevolution Maclure went to Alicante, where he
                    arrived on November 21, 1822. The trip was motivated by his taking possession of the lands bought
                    from the Credito Publico in the states of San Gines, El Carmen, and La Guzmana. There are several
                    descriptions of those properties, which were formerly owned by the church.13
                    Maclure, glad about the possibilities the states offered to him, sought an agreement with the
                    governor of Alicante for a Lancastrian school. He pledged to pay half the salary of a teacher. He
                    also wanted to build a new school, an agrarian institute, which he promoted as beneficial not only
                    for 
                        Spain
                     but also for the two Americas. This institution was to be rooted in the American
                    tradition laid out by 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson in their letters to Arthur Young or in the tradition of the Letters from an
                    
                  
                     11 Alberta Gil Novales, Diccionrio biográfico
                                del Trienio liberal (Madrid, 1991).
                  
                     12 Antonio Meijide Pardo, El ilustrado politico y
                                economista gallego Jacobo Maria de Parga y Puga (1774–1850) (La Coruna,
                            1992).
                  
                     13 Novales, William Maclure in 
                                    Spain
                                
                     , 83-84.
               
                    
                    American Farmer of J. Hector Saint John de Crèvecoeur.14 Maclure wanted to improve cultivation with new methods and new plants, including tropical
                    ones.
            The Lancastrian school, located at first in the city because it would be cheaper, would be based on
                    this improved agriculture, but it would soon be joined by a Pestalozzian school in the countryside.
                    As Maclure explained in his Opinions, the Pestalozzian methods could be
                    incorporated into a Lancastrian framework. Both schools were to form the nucleus of a new kind of
                    society. He persuaded the Alicante orphanage to place sixty orphans under his care, just as in 1829
                    he announced that he would take Mexican children to the industrial school in 
                        New Harmony
                    . In the Alicante region the idea was to combine an industrial school with experiments
                    in agriculture and with Pestalozzian methods of education.
            There were great problems on the horizon not only because 
                        Spain
                     was approaching a civil war but also because of technical questions. Yet Maclure
                    remained confident. He believed in the future of 
                        Spain
                    , and he hoped that the political struggles would not interfere with his plans. Even in
                    financial questions, Maclure was confident, at least publicly. His article "Spanish
                    Bonds" in the 
                        London
                    
                    Morning Chronicle, November 23, 1822, was an attempt to placate and disarm
                    international public opinion on the question of Peninsular finances. Privately, his doubts were
                    greater, but Maclure wanted to help the country overcome its difficulties. The thought Maclure gave
                    to his school is understandable when the number and quality of the would-be professors of the future
                    school are considered. He planned to bring M. Conti, who taught gymnastics in 
                        Paris
                    ; Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, the famous French naturalist who later taught in 
                        New Harmony
                    ; M. James, a disciple of Phiquepal in 
                        Paris
                    , who would take care of the instruction of the orphans; one of the four Combe brothers
                    who were Scottish Owenites in the frontier of British Saint-Simonians; and one of their uncles,
                    known because he was the keeper of one of the best cafes and taverns in Edinburgh. M. Puriles, who
                    knew both Spanish and the Lancastrian methods of education, would be in charge of the Alicante
                    school. Phiquepal himself would be in charge of the agrarian Pestalozzian school in the country.
                    Maclure also began negotiations with an excellent mechanic—unfortunately he does not
                    indicate his name—who was to join his enterprise. He intended to create one of the
                    so-called "moral manufactories" believed to be useful for the exceptional
                    conditions of intelligence and natural skill of the Spanish children.
            Founded to foster the development of new agricultural techniques and crops, Maclure's Spanish school
                    would be under the direction 
                  
                     14 J. Hector Saint John de Crèvecoeur, Letters
                                from an American Farmer (
                                Paris
                            , 1782).
               
                     of the industrial institute. Maclure had tools sent from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to the institute apart from those he tried to manufacture in 
                        Spain
                     itself. In addition to the Lancastrian school in Alicante, there was to be another
                    Pestalozzian school in the country, separate but connected with the industrial and agrarian
                    institute, where mechanics and drawing would be taught. One name must be mentioned immediately as a
                    model for Maclure's concept, the Swiss pedagogue and Pestalozzian, Philipp Emmanuel von Fellenberg,
                    to whom Maclure devoted an article collected in his Opinions. For Fellenberg, as
                    for Maclure, the school, which marked the beginning of a wider social community, was to cover its
                    own expenses. Fellenberg and Maclure differed, however, in their aims. Fellenberg wanted to preserve
                    class distinctions, reasoning that since there would always be rich and poor, both should be
                    educated in mutual respect.16 Maclure was probably more radical in his aims.
            The agrarian-industrial school was the last of Maclure's projects in 
                        Spain
                    . Unfortunately it collapsed because of the French invasion of 
                        Spain
                     in 1823 and the confiscation of Maclure's property. He lost from $30,000 to
                    $40,000 (he himself spoke once of $60,000), a tremendous loss that he accepted
                    stoicly. Worst of all was the loss of hope. But 
                        New Harmony
                     emerged in 1825 as the continuation of the experience, the new promised land where the
                    Spanish idea would be fulfilled far removed from French bayonets and Spanish despots.
            Besides Rodas and Parga, the collaborators of Maclure in 
                        Spain
                     between 1820 and 1824 were indicative of the variety of his interests. First came the
                    bankers. In a time when the modern concept of a bank was in its incipient stages—it was
                    born after and derived from the Napoleonic wars—for Maclure, the banker was still a
                    friend and administrator of his money and private correspondence. Maclure operated with Henry OShea
                    of Valencia, a well-known name in the development of banking in 
                        Spain
                     during the nineteenth century, an Irish name that is still heard in Spanish banking
                    circles. Also, he dealt with Henry McCall of 
                        Gibraltar
                    . But Maclure preferred another firm—Wiseman, Gower and Company, a kind of
                    old-fashioned bank belonging to an Anglo-or Irish-Spanish family. To the same family belonged the
                    future Cardinal Wiseman, born in Seville in 1802. There are other names: George Barrell, American
                    consul in Malaga, as well as several commercial agents such as Casas y Costa; Manuel Basterrica of
                    Irun; Juan Bautista Iribarren and nephews, Balmaseda and Nelson; and Santiago Aramburu in Madrid.
            One of Maclure's collaborators in 
                        Spain
                     was especially notable: Obadiah Rich, 
                        United States
                     consul in Valencia, who had the task of acquiring books and mineral specimens for
                    Maclure. Rich was also a keen naturalist interested in the Pestalozzian methods of education, and he
                    was later to become a famous bibliophile, the creator of 
                  
                     15 Novales, William Maclure in 
                                    Spain
                                
                     , 92-93.
               
                     the Americana branch of bibliographic
                    science. The Smithsonian Institution is partly linked with his name. Obadiah Rich is one of those
                    famous names, important in British and American culture, that belongs also to the Spanish heritage.
                    He held several diplomatic posts in 
                        Spain
                     for many years. In 1822 his children were completely Spanish, as Maclure wrote
                    Fretageot. And he was the best ambassador of the Spanish literary tradition in the Anglo-Saxon
                    world. Obadiah Rich was married in Alicante to Anna 
                        Montgomery
                    , daughter of Robert 
                        Montgomery
                    , American consul in Alicante since 1793, the partner of Maclure in the state of San
                    Gines, and himself a man of great initiative. He died in 1823. A son of Robert 
                        Montgomery
                     and therefore the brother-in-law of Obadiah Rich was called George 
                        Washington
                        Montgomery
                     Irving. For a long time he was in charge of Maclure's affairs in 
                        Spain
                     after the latter's departure. This George 
                        Washington
                     Irving, born in Alicante and not to be mistaken with 
                        Washington
                     Irving, was also a writer. He wrote in Spanish with the pen name of "El
                    Solitario" (the lonely one) and was perhaps the first to write in the Romantic tradition.
            Another associate of Maclure's in 
                        Spain
                     was the French doctor, later turned American citizen, Jean Leymerie. The attitude of
                    Maclure and his circle toward him was one of friendship but not of total approval. In 1821 Leymerie
                    was an exponent of the anticontagion-ist theory concerning the question of the Barcelona epidemic
                    that divided medical doctors into two factions—contagionist and anti-contagionist.
                    Although basically a medical question, it immediately acquired a political meaning and a kind of
                    urgency. The French government sent to Barcelona a medical mission whose members were all
                    contagionists. It is difficult to doubt the professional honesty of those doctors, but their
                    position served the French government. They intended to install a sanitary corridor behind which
                    they would concentrate an army of the invasion. Today Maclure's association with the impulsive and
                    imprudent Leymerie probably means that he was interested in health questions in the 
                        Spain
                     of those years.
            The Spanish seed grew fully in 
                        New Harmony
                    . The famous program "Knowledge is Power" was applied by Maclure in
                    the New World. His ideas can be traced back to the Age of Reason, to Montesquieu, French Jacobinism,
                    and English Radicalism, as well as to Adam Smith, John Grey, David Ricardo, Constantin Francois
                    Volney, and various followers of forms of utopian socialism such as Saint-Simon, Charles Fourier,
                    and Robert Owen himself. But Maclure was not a man who experienced ideas only through reading. He
                    was a geologist, a man of science, and also a traveler. What he saw in his travels went directly to
                    the formation of his thought. In this way the Spanish experience of William Maclure was crucial. He
                    was a man on the edge of two worlds, not only geographically but also ideologically. He was a
                    progressive radical who distilled the best of the revolutionary struggle in Europe and America
                    between the eighteenth and nineteenth  centuries. And he was
                    also a utopian socialist because he sought a new social order based on kinds of social relationships
                    different from those that were dominant at this time. Utopian socialism, as the Argentinian
                    historian Claudio Ingerflom has observed, was not only abstract and speculative, it also developed a
                    critique of contemporary society that took historical factors into account.16
            
            It was remarkable progress. What Maclure learned in 
                        Spain
                     put his thoughts in order. The ideas were abstractions derived not from abstraction but
                    from daily experience. And in 
                        Spain
                     the liberal revolution was for him an open book. Ideas were not separated from
                    politics: the man of science and the thinker belonged to the same world as the worker, peasant, the
                    soldier, or the city dweller. In a word, the people. Maclure wanted to save himself by saving the
                    people. This last word is perhaps utopian, but all movements of human liberation need a political
                    framework that serves as a constitution. It is interesting to note that one of Maclure's essays, The Incompatibility of the Two Powers, Hereditary and Elective, to Exist Peaceably in
                        the Same Body Politic, already translated into Spanish in 1822, contains praise of the
                    Spanish constitution of 1812 as he saw it during the liberal Triennium.
            In summary, Maclure became part of a 
                        Spain
                     in full transformation. His failure was the failure of 
                        Spain
                    . Yet out of this calamity his personality acquired a deeper dimension. 
                        New Harmony
                     would become the appropriate theater for displaying all his potentialities.
            
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 126.
            
         
         
         
            William Maclure's Boatload of Knowledge: Science and Education into the Midwest
            Donald E. Pitzer∗
            
            The 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of Natural Sciences never forgave its second president, William Maclure, or his
                    utopian associate, Robert Owen.1 Maclure and Owen both came to America from 
                        Scotland
                    . Both were wealthy: the first from merchandising, the second from textile
                    manufacturing. Both were philanthropists interested in educational reform. Both had turned to
                    science: Maclure to the natural sciences of geology and mineralogy, Owen to the social sciences of
                    character formation and community building. Together, these two men led the exodus of several of the
                    academy's most fertile minds and 
                        Philadelphia
                    's leading progressive educators, mostly on a single "Boatload of
                    Knowledge" in the winter of 1825–1826. The scientists and educators were drawn
                    by the lure of an ideal intellectual environment being created at 
                        New Harmony
                     on the Indiana frontier. The icy Ohio River from
                            
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               , on December 8, 1825, to Mt. Vernon,
                    Indiana, on January 23, 1826, became the stage for their adventures and misadventures. And, despite
                    the unforgiving attitude of the academy, their migration and the concentration of their talents
                    farther west than any college in the country produced far-reaching scientific, cultural, social, and
                    economic benefits for the Midwest and the entire nation.
            Members of the academy were colleagues of William Maclure and among the earliest American advocates
                    of his and Robert Owen's educational and social reforms. In 1796 Maclure had taken up residence in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and become a 
                        United States
                     citizen. By 1800 he forsook his lucrative business career to devote his energies to
                    geology and innovative methods for teaching children.2 He rejected "the
                        
                  
                     ∗ Donald E. Pitzer is professor of history and director of
                            the Center for Communal Studies, University of Southern Indiana, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 This essay is a revised version of an article published by the
                            author as "The Original Boatload of Knowledge Down the 
                                Ohio River
                            : William Maclure's and Robert Owen's Transfer of Science and Education to the
                            Midwest, 1825–1826," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Journal of Science, LXXXIX (December, 1989), 128-142, to mark the
                            voyage of a second "Boatload of Knowledge" of scholars and students in
                            1987 sponsored by the Ohio River Basin Consortium for Research and
                            Education; it appears here with permission of the 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Journal of Science. The experience and research of the second
                            "Boatload of Knowledge" are described in John Fleischman,
                            "Boatload of Knowledge," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Magazine, XIII (August, 1990), 24-30, 59-61.
                  
                     2 Maclure's life and work are best summarized in John S. Doskey, ed.,
                                The European Journals of William Maclure (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1988), xv-xlviii and Josephine Mirabella Elliott, ed., Partnership for Posterity: The Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos
                                Fretageot, 1820–1833 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1994), xv-xxiv, 1-20.
               
                     absurdity of my own classical education, [which] launched [me]
                    into the world as ignorant as a pig of anything useful." And he asserted that "I
                    had been long in the habit of considering education one of the greatest abuses our species were
                    guilty of, and of course one of the reforms the most beneficial to humanity."3 Maclure's radical social philosophy divided populations into nonproductive and
                    productive classes, the governors and the governed. He argued that knowledge held exclusively by the
                    governing class accounted for the concentration of power and property in the hands of the few.
                    Likewise, knowledge made available to the masses would become the engine for their liberation and
                    the equalization of power and property. Therefore, Maclure sought to open young minds through local
                    schools available to the general public.4
            
            While developing these ideas, Maclure discovered the progressive institute of Johann Heinrich
                    Pestalozzi (1746–1827) at Yverdon, 
                        Switzerland
                    , in 1805. Pestalozzi believed in learning by doing, learning tailored to individual
                    maturation levels, learning by concrete experiences. Maclure visited Pestalozzi's school at least
                    six times. He was so taken by the new methods that he financed such a school in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , bringing the skilled Pestalozzian teacher Joseph Neef from 
                        Paris
                     for this purpose. Pestalozzian education in this country can be dated to Neef s
                    instruction and the publication in 1808 of his Sketch of a Plan and Method of
                        Education.
               5 On his way down the Ohio River on the
                    "Boatload of Knowledge" in January, 1826, Maclure stopped at Joseph Neef s home
                    near 
                        Louisville
                     to invite him to join the Pestalozzian faculty going to 
                        New Harmony
                    . On March 20, the famous teacher and his equally gifted wife, Eloisa Buss Neef, arrived
                    to take positions of leadership at the infant and higher schools of the experimental village.6
            
            In the meantime, Maclure established himself as the "father of American geology"
                    and became influential in scientific circles. The geological map of the 
                        United States
                     that he presented with a lecture at the American Philosophical Society in 1809
                    represented a breakthrough in the field. Published the same year, it made his reputation and laid
                    the groundwork for his contact and correspondence with the scientific leaders of his day.7 Soon after the Academy of Natural 
                  
                     3 William Maclure to Benjamin Silliman, October 19, 1822, in George P.
                            Fisher, Life of Benjamin Silliman (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1866), II, 41.
                  
                     4 William Maclure, Opinions on Various Subjects,
                                Dedicated to the Industrious Producers (3 vols., 
                                New Harmony
                            , 1831–1838) and Arthur Bestor, Backwoods Utopias: The
                                Sectarian and Owenite Phases of Communitariun Socialism in America,
                            1663–1829 (1950; reprint, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1970), 146-48, 151-52.
                  
                     5 Gerald Gutek, Joseph Neef: The Americanization of
                                Pestalozzianism (University, Ma., 1978) and Bestor, Backwoods
                            Utopias, 147.
                  
                     6 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 159.
                  
                     7 William Maclure, "Observations on the Geology of the 
                                United States
                            , Explanatory of a Geological Map," Transactions of the
                                American Philosophical Society, VI (1809), 411-28.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHANN HEINRICH PESTALOZZI
                  
                  Historic 
                        New Harmony,
                                    New Harmony
                     , Indiana.
                Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                     was founded in 1812, he was elected to membership. In this way he became better
                    acquainted with the academy's first president, the Dutch geologist, mineralogist, zoologist, and
                    chemist, Dr. Gerard Troost, a man whose position Maclure filled from 1817 until his death in 1840.
                    In 1816 Maclure brought the noted naturalist, artist, and teacher Charles-Alexandre Lesueur
                    (1778–1846), to be curator of the academy. The two met in 
                        Paris
                     in 1815 after the Frenchman had discovered many new zoological species as part of a
                    Napoleonic scientific expedition to 
                        Australia
                    . Maclure convinced Lesueur to accompany him on a geological expedition through the West
                    Indies and parts of the 
                        United States
                     before Lesueur began the curatorial duties that would occupy him for seven years at the
                    academy. In an age of generalists Lesueur would distinguish himself in the fields of paleontology,
                    archaeology, ichthyology, and zoology.
            Maclure also formed a lifelong friendship with the academy's librarian, the brilliant if shy and
                    self-effacing entomologist and conchologist Thomas Say (1789–1834).8
                    He sponsored Say's collecting 
                  
                     8 H. B. Weiss and G. M. Ziegler, Thomas Say: Early
                                American Naturalist (
                                New York
                            , 1931) and Patricia Tyson Stroud, Thomas Say: New World
                            Naturalist (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1992).
               
                     expeditions to 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Florida
                    . Evidence from these and other expeditions in the Rocky Mountains and along the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Minnesota rivers and the publication of his American Entomology gained Say recognition as the "father of American descriptive
                    entomology." After 1817 Maclure took Say on his own expeditions, where Maclure conducted
                    research that yielded the information for his second geological paper before the American
                    Philosophical Society.9 In 1821 Say became the curator of the American
                    Philosophical Society and the next year a professor of natural history at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            If William Maclure's scientific interests and educational efforts had gathered the academy around his
                    leadership, the more expansive and visionary dreams of Robert Owen inspired him to lead several of
                    its distinguished members to the Indiana wilderness on a "Boatload of Knowledge."
                    For more than a decade before they descended the 
                        Ohio
                    , Robert Owen had been formulating his utopian ideas and using his company milltown of
                    New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , as a laboratory 
                  
                     9 This paper was reprinted with a revised map in William Maclure,
                            "Observations on the Geology of the 
                                United States
                            , Explanatory of a Geological Map," Transactions of the
                                American Philosophical Society, n.s., I (1818), 1-91.
               
                    
                  JOHANN HEINRICH PESTALOZZI GREETS THE CHILDREN AT STANS, SWITZERLAND
                  
                  Reproduced from Jacqueline Cornaz-Besson. Qui etes-vous, Monsieur
                                Pestalozzi? (Yverdon, Suisse, 1977), 41.
               
                     for his social experiments.10 His objective
                    was to discover and implement means to create a New Moral World. This would be a world of
                    enlightenment and prosperity leading to human happiness, which Owen defined as mental, physical, and
                    moral health enjoyed in a rational way of life. It would displace the Old Immoral World of
                    ignorance, superstition, selfishness, and suffering intensified by the first wave of the Industrial
                    Revolution.
            Educators and scientists were crucial to Owen's plan because education, science, technology, and
                    communal living were the methods he chose to achieve the New Moral World. Underpinning his utopian
                    theory was the proposition that individual character is an automatic consequence of the quality of
                    physical, social, and intellectual surroundings. By 1813 he asserted that "any general
                    character, from the best to the worst, from the most ignorant to the most enlightened, may be given
                    to any community, even to the world at large, by the application of proper means; which means are to
                    a great extent at the command and under the control of those who have influence in the affairs of
                        men."11 He came to feel that it was possible to discover the laws
                    governing human nature and to have a practical science of society.12 After 1816
                    he gained an international reputation trying to improve the character of the children and workers of
                    New Lanark through an Infant School for ages two to five and an Institution for the Formation of
                    Character. Maclure himself examined these facilities as Owen's guest when the two first met in 1824.
            Owen added communal living and the abolition of private property to his reform thought in the years
                    just before his first visit to the 
                        United States
                     and the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy in 1824–1825. From the Shakers and the Harmony Society, two American
                    millennial sects awaiting the Kingdom of God on earth, he had learned how effectively communal
                    organization can serve as a survival technique in the formative stage of movements.13 To accomplish his secular utopia, Owen proposed that democratic, socialistic
                    "communities of equality" averaging 
                  
                     10 Owen's use of New Lanark as a testing ground for his ideas of
                            social reform is described in Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 62-69, 72,
                            140-43; Ian Donnachie and George Hewitt, Historic New Lanark: The Dale and Owen
                                Industrial Community since 1785 (Edinburgh, 1993), 97-107; John F. C. Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World: Robert Owen and the Owenites in Britain and
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 37, 41, 49-50, 63, 68, 75-76, 135; Donald E. Pitzer, The New Moral
                            World of Robert Owen and 
                                New Harmony
                            ," in America's Communal Utopias, ed. Donald E.
                            Pitzer (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1997), 91-96; and Anne Taylor, Visions of Harmony: A Study
                                in Nineteenth-Century Millenarianism (
                                New York
                            , 1987), 65-66.
                  
                     11 Robert Owen, A New View of Society, First Essay
                            (1813), in The Life of Robert Owen Written My Himself with sehctions from his
                                writings & correspondence (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1857), I, 265.
                  
                     12 Robert Owen, The Book of the New Moral World,
                                containing the Rational System of Society (
                                London
                            , 1833–1844) has this as the theme throughout. See also Robert Owen
                            and Robert Dale Owen, eds., The Crisis (
                                London
                            , 1833), title page; Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World,
                            159; and Pitzer, America's Communal Utopias, 92, 100.
                  
                     13 Pitzer, America's Communal Utopias, 103,
                        111.
               
                     1,200 persons each should be created worldwide. The idea of
                    using communes as social units to reform the whole earth was not, in fact, peculiar to Owen. His
                    contemporary, Charles Fourier, whose writings were read in their original French and discussed
                    aboard the "Boatload of Knowledge,"14 predicted that exactly
                    2,985,984 joint-stock industrial villages called "phalanxes" would come to
                    revolutionize the human condition.15 Owen differed from Fourier and other
                    non-sectarian communitarian and utopian dreamers, however, in that he had the wealth to actually
                    begin the process he advocated.
            Owen's trip to America in November, 1824, was intended to do just that. He used his fame as a
                    businessman and social reformer to propagandize his new social system among the cultural and
                    political elite of 
                  New York, Philadelphia
               , and 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. And he risked about half his fortune to purchase the town of 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, and its surrounding 20,000 acres for an original price of
                    $135,000, which was later negotiated downward to $125,000.16 Some 900 German-American separatists of the Harmony Society of George Rapp had built the
                    village between 1814 and 1824, when they moved to Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Their communal town already had gained a reputation as "that wonder of the
                    West" because of its 180 buildings, 2,000 acres of cleared farmland, a school, churches,
                    orchestra, band, library, and mills. It marketed its strong beer, woolens, and other products to
                    twenty-two states and ten foreign countries.17
            
            Owen's model community experiment, initiated in 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                     in 1825, attracted Maclure as an educational and financial partner. Only later did he,
                    his educational and scientific colleagues, and the other 
                        New Harmony
                     residents discover that Owen never adequately understood or adopted the secrets that
                    made the three Harmonist and nineteen Shaker communities thrive. In fact, Owen's own faith in mental
                    freedom and his insatiable urge to travel and speak on behalf of his social system militated against
                    his adoption of the unquestioning commitment of members and the daily authoritarian administration
                    that insured Harmonist and Shaker solidarity and economic success. This basic defect helps explain
                    the 
                  
                     14 Josephine Mirabella Elliott, ed., To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                : Robert Dale Owen's Travel Journal, 1825–1826 (Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, Vol. XXIII, no. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1969, 240-49, 255, 286.
                  
                     15 See Carl J. Guarneri, The Utopian Alternative:
                                Fourierism in Nineteenth-Century America (
                                Ithaca
                            , N. Y., 1991).
                  
                     16 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 102-103, 180.
                  
                     17 See Karl J. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                                1785–1847 (
                                Rutherford
                            , N. J., 1965); Karl J. R. Arndt, ed., A Documentary History of the
                                Indiana Decade of the Harmony Society, 1814–1824, (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1975–1978); Karl J. R. Arndt, ed., Harmony on the 
                                    Wabash
                                 in Transition: Transitions to George Rapp's Divine Economy on the 
                                    Ohio
                                , and Robert Owen's New Moral World at 
                                    New Harmony
                                 on the 
                                    Wabash
                                , A Documentary History (
                                Worcester
                            , Mass., 1982); Karl J. R. Arndt, "George Rapp's Harmony
                            Society," in Pitzer, ed., America's Communal Utopias, 57-87; and
                            Donald E. Pitzer and Josephine M. Elliott, "
                                New Harmony
                            's First Utopians, 1814–1824," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, LXXV (September, 1979), 225-300.
               
                     monumental debates at 
                        New Harmony
                     and the eventual dissolution of the communal aspect of Maclure's and the other
                    scholars' involvement with Owen by 1827. Owen and Maclure painfully witnessed the self-destruction
                    of the first attempt to create a non-sectarian, socialistic commune in America. Nevertheless, 
                        New Harmony
                    's groundbreaking scientific and educational work persisted, making the town a focus of
                    national attention for more than a decade thereafter.18
            
            The introduction and popularization of Robert Owen's ideas in America were closely linked to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , to members of the academy, and to Maclure's French Pestalozzian
                    protégé, Marie Duclos Fretageot (1783–1833).19
                    The outlines of Owen's social philosophy expressed in his A New View of Society
                    (1813) probably made their American debut in the city's Jeffersonian newspaper, 
                        
                            Aurora
                        
                    , in 1817. Soon there was an Owenite society in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Gerard Troost and John Speakman of the academy were members by the fall of 1823.20 Fretageot seems to have introduced the academy scientists to the educational
                    and communal dimensions of Owenism. She also played a crucial role in convincing her patron William
                    Maclure to combine his resources and scientific and educational enterprises with those of his fellow
                    philanthropist. When she came from 
                        Paris
                     to organize a Pestalozzian school in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1821, she brought a recently published account of Owen's educational theories. She
                    lent the account to the young medical doctor, William Price, whose father was superintendent of the
                    Friend's Boarding School at West-Town. Dr. Price was so enamored with Owen's teaching philosophy
                    that he visited his experimental schools in New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , in 1824. A year later he took his wife, Hannah Fisher Price, and their three children
                    to 
                        New Harmony
                     aboard the "Boatload of Knowledge."21
            
            The academy's John Speakman, at one time in the pharmaceutical business with Thomas Say, was so
                    inspired by Fretageot's Owenite propaganda that he headed an unsuccessful project to establish a
                    "community of equality" in 1823–1824. After meeting with Owen on his
                    visits to the academy after November, 1824, he saw that Owen's addresses in the Hall of the 
                        United States
                     Congress of February 25 and March 7, 1825, were printed in a 
                        Philadelphia
                     edition. As if further proof of his Owenite conversion was needed, Speakman preceded
                    the "Boatload" to 
                        New Harmony
                     in the fall of 1825.22
            
            
               
                  18 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 200, 201.
               
                  19 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 154; Josephine Mirabella
                        Elliott, "Madame Mane Fretageot: Cornmunitanan Educator," Communal Societies: Journal of the National Historic Communal Societies Association,
                        IV (1984), 174.
               
                  20 Troost was so excited by Owen's reform ideas that he moved to 
                            New Harmony
                         in 1825 ahead of the "Boatload of Knowledge."
               
                  21 Elliott, "Madame Mane Fretageot," 174; Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 154.
               
                  22 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 100, 108-110, 112n,
                        154-55, 202, 213.
            
            
            And what of Fretageot? Owen made her an even more ardent believer when he visited her 
                        Philadelphia
                     school in person on November 21, 1824, during his first trip to America. "I
                    took his hands," she confessed by letter to Maclure who was in Europe, "saying;
                    there is the man I desired so much to converse with! And you are, said he, the woman that I wish to
                    see. We are old acquaintances and in the mean time he gave me a kiss of friendship that I returned
                        heart[i]ly."23 It was simple for Owen to convince the
                    schoolmistress that her students would learn best in the ideal environment that he was preparing in 
                        New Harmony
                    . "We must, says he," she wrote further to Maclure, "work all
                    at once on a spot where the difficulties are almost removed. Then it is only so that we are able to
                    show what are the effects of a good education." "He observed," wrote
                    Fretageot, "that I would devote 30 years of my life where I now am without being able to
                    co[ulnterbalance the evils which surround my pupils."24 Fretageot,
                    Maclure, and the head of his 
                        Paris
                     boys' school, William S. Phiquepal (1779–1855), whom he had brought to 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1824, would be counted among the distinguished passengers on the "Boatload
                    of Knowledge" when the keelboat left the dock at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     on a freezing Thursday, December 8, 1825.
            Robert Owen himself gave the "Boatload of Knowledge" its historic name. On January
                    12, 1826, the keelboat bearing his entourage still drifted slowly down the 
                        Ohio
                    . Owen, however, who left the boat in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     after its second day to travel overland, had already arrived in 
                        New Harmony
                     and was making his first speech to its citizens. He boldly proclaimed that those about
                    to arrive represented "more learning than ever was before contained in a
                    boat," not "Latin &, Greek & other languages but real substantial
                        knowledge."25 Thus even before the group of noted scientists,
                    teachers, artists, musicians, and reformers could make landfall, they became known in the utopian
                    village as the "Boatload of Knowledge."26
            
            For at least once Owen did not exaggerate.27 Those who sailed on the historic
                    voyage of the Philanthropist make a truly impressive group. The list printed in an
                    appendix here was arrived at by comparing the four widely disparate passenger lists made by
                    individuals 
                  
                     23 Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., ed., Education and Reform at 
                                    New Harmony
                                : Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                                1820–1833 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XV, no. 3; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 311-12.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 314.
                  
                     25 As reported by William Pelham to his son, 
                                New Harmony
                            , January 13, 1826, in Indiana As Seen by Early Travelers: A
                                Collection of Reprints from Books of Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1830, ed.
                            Harlow Lindley (Indiana Historical Society Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 405.
                  
                     26 Mrs. Thomas (Sarah) Pears to Mrs. Benjamin Bakewell, 
                                New Harmony
                            , March 10, 1826, in 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                , An Adventure in Happiness: Papers of Thomas and Sarah Pears, ed.
                            Thomas C. Pears, Jr. (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XI,
                            no. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 71.
                  
                     27 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 133.
               
                     aboard—naturalist Charles-Alexandre Lesueur; Owen's
                    son Robert Dale Owen, who made a record in his journal; Owen's convert Donald Macdonald; and a young
                    student, Victor Colin Duclos, who attemptr ed to recall his fellow Boatloaders later as an old
                    man—and by squaring their accounts with known events.28
            
            William Maclure and Robert Owen were aboard as organizers of the excursion. Representing science were
                    naturalists Thomas Say, who was elected captain of the keelboat partway downstream, and
                    Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, who drew 127 of his 1,200 invaluable sketches of the American scene while
                    making the month-and-a-half journey. His ink images convey the setting and spirit of the adventure
                    and document the primeval Ohio Valley. The scope of his sketches includes the
                        Philantropist itself (accurately portraying the French spelling of
                    "philantropist" used by Lesueur on the keelboat to honor Maclure), its passengers,
                    landscapes such as Blennerhassett Island, and a score of towns including 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , Harmonist Economy, Steubenville, Wheeling, Parkersburg, Gallipolis, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and Mt. Vernon.29 Lesueur had three young
                    people in his care: Victor Dupalais, his sister 
                        Virginia
                     who became an art teacher and composer of music in 
                        New Harmony
                    , and Cecilia Noel.
            The Pestalozzian educators aboard were Marie Duclos Fretageot and William S. Phiquepal. Fretageot was
                    accompanied by her three students, the Sistare sisters Lucy, Frances, and Sara. Lucy married Thomas
                    Say in 1827 and helped color the beautiful and precise ink and watercolor sketches of shells in his
                        American Conchology, which was published on the 
                        New Harmony
                     press in 1830. Phiquepal had in his care several boys from his 
                        Philadelphia
                     school, mostly French children including Alexis d'Arusmont, Amedie Dufour, Charles
                    Falque, Fretageot's nephews Peter L. and Victor Colin Duclos, and her son, Achilles. Much later
                    Victor, at age seventy-five, made the list of passengers alluded to earlier of those whom he thought
                    he remembered on the "Boatload" with him, but it is quite inaccurate.30 Achilles Fretageot made Cecilia Noël his first wife and aided
                    Maclure in creating the Workingmen's Institute in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1838. Dr. William Price, the physician, was aboard with his wife, Hannah Fisher
                    Price, their three children, and Mrs. Price's sister-in-law, Mrs. Helen Fisher, from Russia. Mrs.
                    Fisher's husband had died recently, and Robert Owen found in her a traveling companion. A
                    twenty-nine-year-old carpenter, John Beal, was aboard with his wife and 
                  
                     28 The four lists are printed in Elliott, To Holland and
                                To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 265-67.
                  
                     29 Lesueur's 127 drawings are listed in R. W. G. Vail, The American Sketchbooks of Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, 1816–1837 (
                                Worcester
                            , Mass., 1938), 31-41, and are preserved in the Musëum d'Histoire
                            Naturelle in Le Havre, 
                                France
                            . Fourteen are shown in Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 240-64.
                  
                     30 Lindley, Indiana As Seen by Early Travelers, 537;
                                Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 266-67.
               
                    
                    
                  INTERIOR OF THE KEELBOAT
                            PHILANTHROPIST
                      SKETCH BY CHARLES-ALEXANDRE LESUEUR
                  
                  American Philosophical Society, 
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     ; Courtesy of Hiatoric 
                        New Harmony, New
                            Harmony
                     , Indiana.
               
                     daughter Caroline. John taught his trade in Maclure's
                    industrial school in 
                        New Harmony
                    . The house he built of English vernacular wattle and daub construction in 1829 may
                    still be visited in his adopted town. Lesueur was not the only artist to make the voyage. Balthazar
                    Abernasser (Obernesser) from 
                        Switzerland
                     came to teach painting in the 
                        New Harmony
                     schools.
            Among the forty passengers were two other notables. Robert Dale Owen (1801–1877) at age
                    twenty-four was already showing signs of the abilities that would make him an important figure in
                    American politics and reform.31 He had completed a Pestalozzian-type education
                    at the school of Philipp Emmanuel von Fellenberg in Bern, 
                        Switzerland
                    , had been superintendent of the New Lanark schools of his father, and had managed the
                    mills in his father's absence. The journal that he kept is indispensable for its details of the
                    "Boatload's" voyage.32 Stedman Whitwell was an English
                    architect and social reformer. Robert Owen had commissioned him to construct and bring to America a
                    six-foot-square architectural model of the ideal million-square foot Agricultural and Manufacturing
                    Villages of Unity and Mutual Co-operation he proposed be built worldwide. Owen and Whitwell had
                    shown this model proudly during November, 1825, in 
                        New York
                     at Rembrandt Peale's museum as well as in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Only days before the "Boatload of Knowledge" embarked, Whitwell and
                    Macdonald opened the model at the 
                        United States
                     Patent Office in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., displayed it in an anteroom of the White House, and described it personally to
                    President John Quincy Adams.33
            
            The Ohio River and its primeval shores held surprises and delights for the
                    unsuspecting urbanites aboard the eighty-five-by fourteen-foot keelboat with its six long oars,
                    sternsweep, and gouger.34 The keelboat itself was an unwelcome substitute for
                    the steamboat on which Maclure and Owen intended to escort their sophisticated friends to 
                        New Harmony
                    . The river simply had not cooperated. The water level was too low. It took three days
                    to outfit the alternate craft that Maclure purchased. Each of the keelboat's four compartments,
                    front for crew, second for men, third for women, and rear for children, were given tiered bunks,
                    crude chairs and tables, and potbellied stoves. With "everything in considerable
                    confusion," Maclure and Owen escorted their learned party aboard these humble quarters at 2
                    p.m. on that freezing December 8 and drifted away from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    
                  
                     31 Richard W. Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A Biography (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1940).
                  
                     32 Printed in Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 237-64.
                  
                     33 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 129.
                  
                     34 Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 237. On the voyage of the Philanthropist, see also
                            William E. Wilson, "The Boatload of Knowledge: The Journey of Robert Owen's
                            Disciples by Keelboat from 
                                Pittsburgh
                             to 
                                New Harmony
                             in the Winter of 1825–1826," South Atlantic
                                Quarterly, LXXIV (Winter, 1975), 104-17.
               
                     into history.35 The optimistic flag flying
                    proudly atop signalled their dreamed-of destination, "Harmony," on one side and
                    their gratitude to Maclure, "Philantropist" (in Lesueur's French spelling), on the
                        other.36
            
            During the first several days the women aboard protested the hardships. Robert Dale Owen, who himself
                    adapted well to the primitive conditions of outdoor life and welcomed such circumstances as a
                    fitting preparation for all who were bound for backwoods 
                        New Harmony
                    , noted the feminine discontent. In sections of his journal written in the relative
                    secrecy of German rather than his usual English, he observed that "Some of the ladies of
                    our party appear already quite impatient and dissatisfied the more so since they almost cannot do
                    anything for themselves." Soon "they complained publicly about their unhappy
                    lot," and one young lady, Sarah Turner, actually wept at breakfast. At one time Robert Dale
                    "feared they might turn back and that would be a pity."37
                    However, the ladies later actually enjoyed the outdoor environment, especially frolicking on the
                    ice-covered 
                        Ohio
                     near Beaver, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . And some even helped row.
            But things got worse before they got better. The "Boatload of Knowledge" drifted
                    seven miles the first day and nine the second before running aground "either on account of
                    a strong sidewind or of the awkwardness of our pilot."38 The
                    intervening evening had given Robert Dale his first chance to see the interior of log cabins, which
                    he found "pretty comfortable." Say and Price had accompanied him to an island in
                    search of milk, which they found in "good supply." Although title to property on
                    the island was in doubt, in one cabin the men "found a negro family, jovial merry people,
                    with whom we had a deal of fun." Being aground on Merriman's riffle, a narrow rapid, was
                    not fun, however. It was a hazard from which they could not free themselves. At least the keelboat
                    crew, and possibly some of the male passengers, could not loosen the boat even by getting into the
                    freezing water several times, one man suffering stomach cramps for his trouble. Fortunately, the
                    ever neighborly Harmonists were building their new village of Economy (now Ambridge) on the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     side just seven miles downstream from the stranded Philanthropist.
                    The elder Owen had purchased their Indiana town and visited them at Economy just a year before. Now,
                    with Maclure, Phiquepal, and Lesueur, he left the keelboat to seek Father Rapp's assistance. After
                    sunset the six strong Harmonist men whom Rapp dispatched freed the boat in an hour of hard labor.
            
               
                  35 All quotations and details regarding the keelboat trip from 
                            Pittsburgh
                         to 
                            New Harmony
                         are from Robert Dale Owen's journal as printed in Elliott, To Holland
                            and To 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  , 237-64, unless otherwise indicated.
               
                  36 See Lesueur's sketches in Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  , 256, 261.
               
                  37 Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  , 239, 241-43.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., 239.
            
            
            Robert Dale Owen described the rescuers as knowing "admirably how to act in concert, to be
                    steady, retired, cautious and industrious, but not to possess superior intelligence or liberality of
                        sentiment."39 Although prejudicial, his assessment did suggest
                    Harmonist qualities that were critical to the strong communal organization of their Harmony Society.
                    As the Boatloaders visited their "very flourishing" new town of Economy the next
                    day, they witnessed the fruits of such commitment. And even though they were not aware of it yet,
                    the Harmonist qualities were significantly reversed among many who would settle as unscreened
                    citizens in Owenite 
                        New Harmony
                    . This factor alone would help explain why the Owen-Maclure community would never enjoy
                    the unanimity of purpose or the economic success of those of the Harmonists.
            The Owen-Maclure entourage was entertained in grand style by George Rapp, his adopted son and expert
                    business manager, Frederick, and his gracious and musically talented granddaughter, Gertrude. They
                    drank tasty, aged wine made from 
                        New Harmony
                     wild grapes. One can only imagine the excitement that pioneering zoologists such as
                    Charles-Alexandre Lesueur and Thomas Say must have felt as the group beheld the Harmonist deer park,
                    a fenced area containing deer and two elk, one of the earliest zoos in the country. Animals from
                    this pen and many other specimens that the Harmony Society had been collecting and preserving were
                    put on display in their large Feast Hall in 1826. Much of this collection for which the Harmonists
                    charged admission can still be viewed. It is thought to be the nation's oldest natural history
                    museum housed in its original building.40
            
            Robert Owen's decision to return to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     from Economy to obtain deeds for 
                        New Harmony
                     property eliminated him from further travel on the "Boatload of
                    Knowledge" and participation in its most exciting adventures. These occurred mostly from
                    December 11, 1825, to January 9, 1826, twenty-eight days during which the keelboat was stuck in the
                    ice at Safe Harbor station only fifteen miles below Economy and eight miles above Beaver, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Safe Harbor must have seemed a misnomer to the marooned party. The fht full day there
                    two of Phiquepal's boys fell through the ice in the middle of the river. Nobody was near enough to
                    help them, but they could swim and got out on their own. Later, Dr. Price "fell into the
                    river through the ice up to his neck, but got out without other inconvenience than a good
                        wetting."41 Worse was the accident that befell Phiquepal, who had
                    gone hunting with Lesueur. The teacher fell getting over a fence and hit his head on a log. He lay
                    for days, feverish and sometimes delirious, 
                  
                            39
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     40 Raymond V. Shepherd, Jr., director of Old Economy Village,
                            interview with author, July 20 and 21, 1987.
                  
                     41 Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 257.
               
                     and once was bled by Dr. Price. Because of a personality that
                    often was disagreeable, some might say Phiquepal never fully recovered, but he was well enough to
                    travel when the thaw finally came. Before that, a few had abandoned ship. Mrs. Fisher left on
                    December 16 with a man who had arrived from Yellow Springs, 
                        Ohio
                    , where a handful of Owen followers were at work forming a short-lived community. She
                    met Robert Owen along the way and traveled on to 
                        New Harmony
                     with him. Maclure contracted a cold and chose to leave the boat with Fretageot,
                    spending December 23 to 31 in Beaver. After a brief return, these two left the keelboat again on
                    January 5 and headed for Steubenville, 
                        Ohio
                    , and Wheeling, West 
                        Virginia
                    , where they rejoined their companions on January 10.
            Others enjoyed their wintery sanctuary at Safe Harbor. For Lesueur there were endless opportunities
                    for sketching not only specimens, but also people, including the family in the cabin where he was
                    caring for the injured Phiquepal. Robert Dale Owen was awed by the untouched beauty. "The
                    appearance of the woods is wild and magnificent in the extreme," he wrote,
                    "immense trees lying across one another, and everything, apparently, in a perfect state of
                        nature."42 He, Lesueur, and Price thrilled to the hunting of wild
                    game. With the rifle he had purchased in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , Robert Dale shot at partridges, woodpeckers, woodcocks, doves, pigeons, pheasants,
                    squirrels, and deer, but not very effectively. He noted that "the people seem civil and
                    obliging, though they were rather scandalized at our hunting on Sunday."43 He testified that "The friendlyness of the inhabitants here is very remarkable.
                    Whenever you pass by their doors you are asked to walk in and welcomed with unfeigned
                        pleasure."44 One such local settler, John Rice, taught him the
                    finer points of riflery and caring for his firearm. He also had him shoot at targets, but with
                    little improvement of his aim. When he and John walked through the deep snow to a shooting match six
                    miles from the keelboat, John won a turkey and a pair of braces, Robert Dale only a handkerchief.
                    Maybe that is why he felt that "the persons present seemed to me in low spirits, without
                    any appearance of mirth or fun."45
            
            Recreation aboard the icebound "Boatload of Knowledge" took the forms of games of
                    cards and Whist, reading, and lively conversation. Reading centered on Charles Fourier's utopian
                    writings read aloud by Fretageot in their original French and silently by Robert Dale Owen. Both
                    women and men entered the discussions on topics ranging from costumes to Fourierism, the young Owen
                    sharing the Frenchman's basic principles but hding his methods impractical. Robert Dale's
                    conversations with Maclure did not bring him closer to his father's 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 242.
                  
                            43
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 251.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 250, 251.
               
                     partner whom he thought "at times to act somewhat
                    stubbornly and vehemently" and "looks at everything in a much too suspicious
                    manner and manages thereby at times to make difficulties for himself."46 But he came to hold the thought and advice of Fretageot, with whom he discussed everything
                    from his personal life to mathematics, in the highest regard. He concluded that "Mme
                    F[retageot] is an excellent woman in every respect."47
            
            On Christmas Day, with hopes for a thaw dashed when the promising rain stopped in the early
                    afternoon, Thomas Say and Robert Dale Owen spent most of the uncelebrated holiday talking with
                    Phiquepal. First they discussed the meaning of words. Then they explored the types of articles that
                    they should plan for the 
                        New Harmony
                     Gazette. The usually quiet Say "related various anecdotes of Indians, showing
                    their perfect composure in cases of danger or of sudden alarm or of extreme pain, the tenacity with
                    which they nourish revenge etc." This induced Robert Dale to muse, "I believe the
                    evils of the savage and of the civilized state are nearly balanced—They have many
                    excellent qualities, which we most irrationally neglect to cultivate, but they fail to attain much
                    of which we are in possession."48
            
            Donald Macdonald first joined the "Boatload" at Safe Harbor along with 
                        Virginia
                     Dupalais and Stedman Whitwell on January 7. The next evening, Robert Dale disagreed
                    with Macdonald in a friendly debate about workers and production. The young philosopher stated his
                    case in his journal: 
                        It appears to me the greatest mistake to suppose it rational to make men mere producing
                            machines and to treat them as such, and to estimate their happiness by the quantity of their
                            productions. We must be careful, too, not to forget that happiness is the object of our
                            pursuit; and that we succeed, not in proportion to the extent of our surplus productions,
                            but in proportion to the measure of happiness which the members of the society enjoy.49
                  
                     A protracted conversation on religion and politics with a Methodist clergyman in Beaver
                    prompted Robert Dale to comment that 
                        He reasoned with qt [quite] good temper and some talent, but has the most incorrect ideas. It
                            is extremely difficult by abstract reasoning to convince even of the plainest truths one,
                            whose mind has been for years trained by ingenious and self believed sophistry to support
                            irrational ideas. The vagueness of the terms generally used greatly increases this
                            difficulty; for instance "free agent" "liberty of
                            choice" "mere machine" "responsible being"
                                etc.50
                  
                    
            
            The courageous captives of Safe Harbor made several compromises with comfort and suffered one more
                    scare before being freed by the thawing 
                        Ohio
                    . Resolving to do manual labor as needed and to 
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 247, 249.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 247.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 251, 252.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., 257.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., 253.
               
                     eat but two meals each day at 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. to reduce food
                    preparation, they relieved eight of their eleven hired crew members. They appointed Thomas Say as
                    captain and found that he "goes about it competently and handles the crew in the most
                    clever manner."51 But none of the passengers was prepared for
                    "a noise resembling peals of thunder" that awakened them in the stillness of
                    night. They "immediately sprung from their beds and secured most of the baggage on
                        shore."52 None would forget the lesson that this is a normal sound
                    of ice breaking up, "Putting their trunks all on board again" with
                    "infinite amusement" they began to realize that this disturbance was a very good
                    sign for those anxious to drift with the current once again.
            Lesueur sketched the momentous event on January 8, as passengers and crew labored together to cut a
                    150-yard pathway in the ice for the Philanthropist to pass out to the open
                    channel. Pushing off the next day, they began the tranquil remainder of their trip, almost
                    uneventful by comparison. Rowing with the long oars became routine for the men, and sometimes the
                    women took a turn. They were in Steubenville by 5 p.m. Here it became apparent that the prospect for
                    a fine education in the proposed 
                        New Harmony
                     schools had reached the ears of notable figures in the Midwest. Benjamin Tappan, the
                    antislavery leader and former 
                        Ohio
                     circuit judge, put James Frazer aboard. James, one of Tappan's three stepchildren by
                    his second wife, the widow Betsey Lord Frazer, looked to benefit from the educational resources
                    represented by the "Boatload of Knowledge."53
            
            Leaving Steubenville and drifting with the current all night, the Philanthropist
                    arrived at Wheeling and was reboarded by Maclure and Fretageot. Making as many as ninety-five miles
                    in one twenty-four-hour period, the keelboat bore its human cargo to Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , and Maysville, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The only emergency had come when one of the boys, probably Victor Duclos, had to be
                    rescued after falling into the river while dipping a mug for water. A few lighthearted passengers
                    sang and danced on the deck of the keelboat until late one night. On January 15, Robert Dale Owen
                    recorded a temperature of twenty-two degrees Fahrenheit. Stedman Whitwell may have given him this
                    information since Whitwell would keep the earliest daily record of weather conditions in 
                        New Harmony
                     during the 1820s and have them printed in its Gazette. Whitwell also invented a system
                    for naming any place on earth by assigning letters to its longitude and latitude. Since this would
                    have meant renaming 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Ipba Veinul, 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    Otfu Veitoup, and 
                        Paris
                    
                    Oput Tedou, it is understandable that his efficient, scientific method was never
                    adopted. 
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 247.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 253.
                  
                     53 Benjamin Tappan to Benjamin Tappan, Jr., Reel 3, Tappan Papers
                            (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.).
               
                     One group of English farmers at 
                        New Harmony
                    , however, did use the Whitwell name Feiba Peveli for their
                    subdivision, and a sign with these unusual words still graces the entrance to a descendant's farm.
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                    , which Robert Dale Owen called "by far the most regular and chearful [sic] look[in]g town we have seen in the west,"54
                    offered the Boatloaders the last intellectual adventure of their voyage. They arrived on January 16,
                    amid ice flows that prevented them from rowing, a week after Robert Owen had left the town for 
                        New Harmony
                    . On January 17 some toured the museum of natural history, which Robert Dale Owen
                    described as "small; but apparently well arranged."55 That
                    evening they attended a lecture by John Cleves Symmes, nephew of the founder of the Queen City. A
                    proponent of the theory of concentric spheres, he expounded his ideas that the earth is hollow and
                    possibly habitable inside. He contended that an opening near the North Pole permits the moon to
                    force air into and out of the interior. The dark complexion of the Eskimos was due, he said, to the
                    hot air being expelled from the earth. Symmes, who died in 1829, was trying to secure funds from
                    learned societies to mount an expedition to test his hypotheses.56 "His
                    theory appears plausible, and the great collection of facts whch he brings to bear upon it evinces
                    his industry and I think considerable talent and penetration," wrote Robert Dale Owen after
                    hearing the lecture. In a more generous mood with Symmes than with the Methodist clergyman, he
                    added, "The matter appears to me worthy of investigation, as the subject of an
                        expedition."57
            
            Two uneventful days of floating while Owen's son read the Apocrypha landed the "Boatload of
                    Knowledge" in 
                        Louisville
                     on January 19. There they accidentally found Joseph Neef, the first Pestalozzian
                    teacher Maclure had brought to 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The aging educator, who had operated several schools in 
                        Kentucky
                     and elsewhere, promised to join the optimistic band in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Later Neef and his wife, Eloisa, became leaders in the progressive schools of the
                    Owenite village.
            Three days rowing in daylight and drifting in darkness from 
                        Louisville
                     brought the Philanthropist past the thrilling Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     to Mt. Vernon, Indiana, only fifteen miles overland from 
                        New Harmony
                    . It was Monday morning, January 23, forty-seven days since the Boatloaders had departed
                    from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Most must have welcomed the thought of leaving the river for a wagon ride to the
                    utopian village the next day. But the impatient Robert Dale Owen rode there immediately by
                    horseback, arriving in time to hear part of his father's evening lecture to his admiring disciples.
                    Some of the women 
                  
                     54 Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 262.
                  
                            55
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     56 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1950), II, 594.
                  
                     57 Elliott, To Holland and To 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     , 262.
               
                     and children stayed aboard Maclure's keelboat with Lesueur and
                    Say to make the complete voyage, going further down the 
                        Ohio
                     and up the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        New Harmony
                    .58 On January 24, Lesueur made the last of his 127 sketches of the
                    trip and titled it "Débâcle àt 
                        Mount Vernon
                    " ("Breaking up of the ice at 
                        Mount Vernon
                    ").
            In the same speech in which Robert Owen gave the famous name to the "Boatload of
                    Knowledge," he also announced that the voyagers included "some of the ablest
                    instructors of youth that c[oul]d be found in the U. S. or perhaps in the world."59 This statement was taken by those already settled in his fledgling utopia on
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     as a promise that "In [New] Harmony there will be the best Library &
                    the best School in the 
                        United States
                    ."60 Measured by the libraries, schools, research, and
                    publications that the "Boatloaders" produced in the decades ahead, few could
                    question that the promise was kept. Scientific, cultural, social, and economic benefits were
                    realized not only by 
                        New Harmony
                    , but also by the Midwest and the nation at large.
            Robert Owen put William Maclure in charge of the educational program that was to reform human
                    character and lead to utopia. When Maclure was away, Fretageot and Thomas Say were in charge. There
                    would be an Infant School, a Higher School, a School of Industry, and adult learning through
                    lectures, libraries, and museums. The Infant School was created to duplicate Owen's New Lanark
                    school for children ages two to five. Therefore, 
                        New Harmony
                     had one of the earliest schools for infants in the 
                        United States
                    . To separate children from unwanted negative parental influence, it operated as a
                    boarding school in the spacious Community House No. 2 built by the Hannonists. It acquainted more
                    than 100 children with communal sharing, humanitarian principles, and intellectual curiosity by the
                    Pestalozzian methods of Marie Duclos Fretageot and Eloisa Buss Neef.61
            
            After Infant School, children attended the Higher School to age twelve, modeled after the New Lanark
                    Institute for the Formation of Character. Joseph Neef was principal, aided by his son, Victor, and
                    daughter, Louisa. For as many as 200 students, they conducted classes in mechanics, mathematics,
                    science, art, music, gymnastics, 
                  
                     58 Donald Macdonald, The Diaries of Donald Macdonald,
                                1824–1826 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), 334, 337; H. F. Raup, ed., and 
                                Milton
                             Haber, trans., The Travels of the Naturalist Charles A. Lesueur in
                                North America, 1815–1837 (
                        Kent, Ohio
                     , 1968),
                            34-40.
                  
                     59 William Pelham to his son, 
                                New Harmony
                            , January 13, 1826, in Lindley, hdiana As Seen by Early
                            Travelers, 405.
                  
                     60 William Pelham to his son, 
                                New Harmony
                            , February 9, 1826, in ibid., 411.
                  
                     61 Donald F. Carmony and Josephine M. Elliott, "
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana: Robert Owen's Seedbed for Utopia," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXXVI (September, 1980), 184; Donald E. Pitzer,
                            "Education in Utopia: The 
                                New Harmony
                             Experience," in Timothy L. Smith and Donald E. Pitzer, The History of Education in the Middle West (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978), 91-92.
               
                     language, and Writing.62 Maclure fervently
                    hoped that his own methods combined with Owen's and Pestalozzi's progressive approaches to
                    instruction would make 
                        New Harmony
                     the focal point of education in America. His advertisement for the 
                        New Harmony
                     boarding schools in Silliman's Journal early in 1826 described
                    innovative methods to be used in teaching mechanics, mathematics, science, writing, drawing, music,
                    gymnastics, languages, and manual arts. In part, he wrote: 
                        The children are to learn mechanism by machines or exact models of them, arithmetic by a
                            machine called the arithmometer, geometry by a machine called the trignometer, by which the
                            most useful propositions of Euclid are reduced to the comprehension of a child five or six
                            years old….
                        
                     
                        62 Carmony, "
                                    New Harmony
                                , Indiana," 184; Pitzer, "The New Moral World of Robert
                                Owen and 
                                    New Harmony
                                ," 115.
                  
                        
                     JOSEPH NEEF PORTRAIT BY DAVID DALE OWEN
                     
                     
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Workingmen's Institute, 
                                    New Harmony
                                , Indiana.
                  
                        
                        Natural history in all its branches is learned by examining the objects in substance or
                            accurate representations of them in designs or prints; anatomy by skeletons and wax figures;
                            geography by globes and maps—most of the last of their own construction; hygiene,
                            or the preservation of health, by their own experience and observation of the consequences
                            of all natural functions.63
                  
                     In accord with this pedagogy, it is known that Neef and other teachers used machines,
                    skeletons, and flowers in their lessons.64
            
            All of the scientists, including Maclure, gave instruction in the Higher School and public lectures
                    in their specialties. Oliver Evans, Jr., son of the inventor of high pressure steam engines, taught
                    mechanics. Robert Owen's son Richard arrived in 1828 and studied art privately with
                    Charles-Alexandre Lesueur. He wrote that Lesueur "was a magnificent artist, good alike in
                    drawing and coloring… when I was taking lessons from him, he showed me how to outline,
                    for instance, the skeleton of the human figure, then to add the muscular system, then the clothing,
                    drapery, etc." And he added, "We usually took views from nature."65
            
            Maclure's School of Industry, begun in 1826, pioneered the trade school concept in this country.
                    Although the 
                        Rensselaer
                     [Polytechnic] Institute opened two years before, its curriculum emphasized technology
                    rather than trades. 
                        New Harmony
                    's industrial school implemented Maclure's philosophy that every child should learn at
                    least one useful trade. More than eighty students from the Higher School, mostly boys, spent part of
                    each day learning an occupational skill as in modern "co-op" programs. Maclure
                    intended that the sale of products from the school should relieve the community from the expense of
                    educating its own boys and girls and should aid students who came from as far distant as 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        New York
                    , such as Judge Tappan's stepson of Steubenville, to earn their $100 annual
                    fees. William Phiquepal taught printing. Boatloader John Beal taught carpentry along with skilled
                    craftsmen in various trades. The boys learned shoemaking, hatmaking, joining, taxidermy,
                    wheelwrighting, woodturning, blacksmithing, and agriculture, while the girls trained in cooking,
                    sewing, housekeeping, dressmaking, and millinery as taught by the talented ladies of the town. But
                    drawing, engraving, and printing became paramount in the curriculum. This was because of Maclure's
                    conviction that the ideal educational system should link teaching to research and publication.
                    Perhaps for the first time in America students at 
                        New Harmony
                     studied with active research scholars and learned the printing trades that permitted
                    them to publish 
                  
                     63 Quoted in George B. Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 237.
                  
                     64 Pitzer, "Education in Utopia," 92.
                  
                     65 Quoted in D. S. Jordan, "Charles Alexandre
                            Lesueur," Popular Science Monthly, XLVI (February, 1895),
                        549-50.
               
                     the evidence their mentors collected at the frontiers of
                        knowledge.66
            
            Before the School of Industry ended its programs in the 1840s, the pupils of Phiquepal, printer
                    Cornelius Tiebout, and others printed landmark scientific works, sometimes including color
                    illustrations. Thomas Say's Descriptions of New Species of North American Insects, and
                        Observations on Some of the Species Already Described and Descriptions of Some
                        New Terrestrial and Fluviatile Shells of North America were issued in the late 1820s and
                    early 1830s. Between 1830 and 1838 Say's American Conchology, or Descriptions of the
                        Shells of North America was published in seven sections, the last one four years after his
                    death. The completed volume was so beautifully illustrated by Thomas and his wife, Lucy Sistare of
                    the "Boatload," that it is a collectors' item. The first two-and-a-half parts of
                    Charles-Alexandre Lesueur's American Ichthyology or, Natural History of the Fishes of
                        North America with Coloured Figures from Drawings Executed from Nature were printed in
                    1827. These brief essays were the beginning of a projected monumental work he never completed. In
                    1832 Maclure used the press for both his Essay on the Formation of Rocks, or an Inquiry
                        into the Probable Origin of Their Present Form and Structure and his Observations on the Geology of the West 
                            India
                         Islands; from 
                            Barbados
                         to Santa Cruz, Inclusive. Maclure also bought 1,300 copperplates representing
                    the works of various authors, which were printed at 
                        New Harmony
                     both for use in the schools and for sale. Among the books printed from these plates was
                    the last major effort of the school press, a new edition of Francois André Michaux's
                    three-volume The North American Silva; or, a Description of the Forest Trees of the
                                
                     United States, Canada, Nova
                        Scotia
                  …. During its existence the press also had been used
                    to print the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette and its successor The 
                            New Harmony
                         and 
                            Nashoba
                         Gazette, or The Free Enquirer until February, 1829, and, starting in 1828,
                    Maclure's own periodical, The Disseminator of Useful Knowledge.
               67
            
            The educational, social, and scientific concerns of Maclure's and Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                     were carried effectively to the broader society by Robert Dale Owen.68
                    
                        New Harmony
                     pointed the way toward free public education for both sexes half a century before it
                    was generally effected in Indiana and the Midwest. As a political figure, Robert Dale was a driving
                    force for getting tuition-free, tax-supported public education written into the second Indiana
                    Constitution of 1851. He helped produce the School Law of 1852, which began this article's 
                  
                     66 Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 243-44; Pitzer, "Education in Utopia,"
                            93-94.
                  
                     67 Bestor, Backwoods Utopias, 200; Carmony, "
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana," 181-83.
                  
                     68 In the standard work on Robert Dale Owen, Richard W. Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A Biography (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1940), see pages 142-75, 205-35, 352-56.
               
                    
                    
                  "PHIQUEPAL AND HIS PUPPIES" LITHOGRAPH MADE BY JACQUES G. MILBERT IN PARIS, 1823
                  
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
                deliberate, if slow, implementation. He was also an apostle of the 
                        New Harmony
                     antislavery position. He combined his efforts with Frances Wright, a brief 
                        New Harmony
                     resident, the most radical feminist of her times, and one of the most energetic
                    antislavery advocates ever. Robert Dale worked to free former slaves by the earnings of their own
                    labor at Wright's communal settlement called 
                        Nashoba
                    , near 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               . Some believe that his letter of September 17,
                    1862, to President Abraham Lincoln helped convince the president to issue his Preliminary
                    Emancipation Proclamation on September 22.69 Robert Dale Owen supported numerous
                    liberal causes as coeditor of The Free Enquirer with Wright in 
                        New York City
                     between 1829 and 1832. In 1830 he wrote an early volume on birth control titled Moral Physiology; or, a Brief and Plain Treatise on the Population Question. As a
                    member of the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives, this passenger from the "Boatload of
                    Knowledge" in 1846 actively guided the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution as a
                    public educational facility.70
            
            
               
                        New Harmony
                     became a center for science in America. Those on the "Boatload" and
                    their colleagues from the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of Natural Sciences brought with them a scientific library unequalled beyond
                    the Appalachians, if not in the nation. Eighty adults in communal 
                        New Harmony
                     enrolled in free lectures on topics to be heard, if at all, only in major cities:
                    Lesueur on zoology, art, and drawing; Say on natural history; Gerard Troost on mineralogy,
                    chemistry, and 
                  
                     69
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Daily Tribune, October 23, 1862.
                  
                     70 Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, 219-35.
               
                     mathematics; and Phiquepal on experimental farming.71 Just as Constantine Rafinesque, the ichthyologist of the Midwest, had come to
                    Harmonist 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1819 to consult with Dr. Christopher Mueller, leading scientists made pilgrimages to
                    Owenite 
                        New Harmony
                     to consult its authorities, see the museum of their collected specimens, and,
                    perchance, to participate in their work. Among those who sought out this scientific Mecca were Sir
                    Charles Lyell, the eminent Scottish geologist; Leo Lesquereux, a fossil botanist; and Prussian
                    Prince Alexander Philip Maximillian, a prodigious explorer who had in his expedition party Karl
                    Bodmer, the now-famous artist, and a taxidermist named Dreidoppel.72 Although
                    solid evidence is lacking, it would not be surprising if ornithologist John James Audubon visited 
                        New Harmony
                     from his home in nearby Henderson, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            "Boatload of Knowledge" scientists and educators contributed to the opening of the
                    Midwest through personal accomplishments and through their influence on the next generation of
                    scholars. Beyond their private collecting and documenting, Say and Lesueur worked with visitors such
                    as Prince Maximillian and his associates. In the winter of 1832 they collaborated with them in a
                    study of the natural history of the 
                        New Harmony
                     vicinity, which identified fifty-eight different trees and many shrubs. In June, 1834,
                    Lesueur accompanied the prince as far as 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, on his expedition to Lake Erie, Niagara Falls, and 
                        Boston
                    . The findings from this effort appeared in the prince's Reise Durch Nord
                        Amerika [Journey Through North America] (1838–1843) and in an English
                    translation in 1843. Thomas Say made 
                        New Harmony
                     the base for his research, lectures, and publications until his death in 1834. An
                    obelisk marks his grave in the yard of the present Rapp-Maclure-Owen Home on the square in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Say lived on this site. Part of his collection was sent east. The remainder burned in
                    a fire that destroyed the original house in 1844. After Say's death, his friend and colleague
                    Charles-Alexandre Lesueur returned to his native 
                        France
                     in 1837. There, in 1845, Lesueur became the first curator of the Muséum
                    d'Histoire Naturelle at Le Ham, which has preserved more than 1,200 of his historic American
                    sketches. Gerard Troost of the "Boatload" became a professor of chemistry and
                    mineralogy at 
                        Nashville
                     University and was the state geologist of 
                        Tennessee
                     from 1831 to 1839.73
            
            Of educator Marie Duclos Fretageot historian Arthur Bestor has written: "
                        New Harmony
                     was Madame Fretageot's monument as truly as it was Rapp's or Owen's or
                        Maclure's."74 She remained in 
                        New Harmony
                     as a most stable element in the educational system until 1831, faithfully executing the
                    instructions she received from Maclure, 
                  
                     71 Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 242, 317.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., 314-21.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., 75-79.
                  
                     74 Bestor, Education and Reform, 406.
               
                     who had retreated to Mexico for his health's sake in 1828 and
                    would remain until his death in 1840. The 480 letters that these two exchanged and are now preserved
                    in the archives of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute are essential to the historic record. Fretageot died in Mexico
                    in 1833 while visiting the geologist she had grown to love.75 The other
                    Pestalozzian teacher on the "Boatload," William Phiquepal, taught in the
                    Industrial School, then left 
                        New Harmony
                     and had a liaison with Frances Wright, which resulted in an unhappy union and the
                    virtual end to both of their productive careers.76
            
            William Maclure's legacy lived on through those he attracted to geology and those to whom his
                    philanthropy brought libraries. Robert Owen's sons, David Dale and Richard, came to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1828 and fell under his spell. David Dale forsook a medical career to study the
                    geology of the Midwest.77 He was commissioned to make the first geological
                    survey of Indiana in 1837. While he was doing the field work and writing his report in
                    1837–1838, he was appointed geologist by the federal government. In this way 
                        New Harmony
                     became the headquarters for geological surveys sponsored by the 
                        United States
                     government from 1837 to 1856, decades before the 
                        United States
                     Geological Survey was officially organized in 1876. On assignment to locate mineral
                    deposits before government sale of public domain in the Northwest, David Dale led a massive
                    operation to survey the present areas of 
                  Iowa,
                            Wisconsin, Minnesota
               , and northern 
                        Illinois
                    . The five-story Harmonist granary became a museum and laboratory for these specimens
                    and Maclure's from 
                        Spain
                    , Portugal, 
                  Italy, France
               , Mexico, and the West Indies.
            This center for research in the natural sciences not only opened the Midwest to scientific
                    investigation, but, as importantly, to industrial development.78 Maclure's 
                        New Harmony
                     contributed the geologists who stimulated this process. David Dale became the state
                    geologist for 
                        Kentucky
                     from 1854 to 1857, for 
                        Arkansas
                     from 1857 to 1859, and for Indiana from 1859 to his death in 1860. His younger brother,
                    Richard, succeeded him in that post and became a professor of natural science at Indiana University
                    from 1864 to 1879, when he was selected the first president of Purdue University.79 Edward T. Cox, a student in the Owen-Maclure schools of 
                        New Harmony
                    , was Indiana state geologist from 1868 to 1880. Major Sidney Lyon was super-intendent
                        
                  
                     75 Elliott, Partnership for Posterity, 16.
                  
                     76 See Celia Morris Eckhardt, Fanny Wright: Rebel in
                                America (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1984).
                  
                     77 See William B. Hendrickson, David Dale Owen: Pioneer
                                Geologist of the Middle West (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1943).
                  
                     78 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 269-76.
                  
                     79 V. L. Albjerg, Richard Owen: 
                                    Scotland
                                 1810, Indiana 1890 (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1946), 20-21, 24-91.
               
                     of a 
                        Kentucky
                     geodetic and topographical survey. Dr. J. G. Norwood did early geological surveying in 
                        Illinois
                    , and Professor A. H. Worthen became that state's geologist from 1858 to 1888. The seven
                    volumes of reports that Worthen published were once regarded as the most complete geological survey
                    of any midwestern state.80
            
            The flag that signaled "Philantropist" to the boats and towns along the
                        Ohio River from the "Boatload of Knowledge" accurately
                    described the enlightened charity of William Maclure that he showed even while spending his final
                    years in Mexico. His last philanthropic gesture to 
                        New Harmony
                    , the Midwest, and the nation was also his last attempt to improve, through education,
                    the standards, and therefore the power, of the laboring people in whom he placed great faith. By
                    gifts of libraries to local workingmen's societies, he meant to insure that citizens who
                    "earn their living in the sweat of their brows" would have access to knowledge and
                        culture.81 With the assistance of Achilles E. Fretageot in 
                        New Harmony
                    , who was but a lad of twelve when on the "Boatload" with his more
                    renowned mother, Maclure effected the revival of the Workingmen's Institute on April 2, 1838. John
                    Beal and Edward Cox were charter members. This organization had functioned while Maclure was in 
                        New Harmony
                     in the 1820s, and now he promised it $1,000 worth of books of its own
                    choosing, to be housed in a wing of the old Harmonist brick church.82 This
                    library, now the oldest existing one in Indiana, is housed in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute. The letters, manuscripts, publications, artifacts, and
                    specimens in the institute's archives and museum are vital links to the Owen-Maclure-Fretageot
                    community and its famous educators and scientists.
            Maclure's hope of personally returning to the 
                        United States
                     to supervise the establishment of such mechanics' libraries was cut short by his death
                    on March 27, 1840. He created two educational funds, however, to propel his dream into the future.
                    One of these funds was in the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of Natural Sciences, of which he was still president. It was "to be
                    applied to the diffusion of useful knowledge after my death, restricted solely to such as labor with
                    their hands."83 The other fund was part of his will. It promised
                    "the sum of five hundred dollars to any club or society of laborers who may establish in
                    any part of the 
                        United States
                     a reading-and lecture-room with a library of at least one hundred volumes."84 Ultimately, $80,000 was distributed to establish 160 such
                    libraries, 144 
                  
                     80 Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 319, 320.
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., 322-28.
                  
                     82 Thomas James De la Hunt, History of the 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Working Men's Institute, 
                                    New Harmony
                                , Indiana (
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., 1927), 18.
                  
                     83 Quoted in ibid.
                  
                  
                     84 Quoted in Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 325.
               
                     in Indiana and 16 in 
                        Illinois
                    . Only three of Indiana's ninety-two counties did not receive one. Thus, William Maclure
                    the geologist became America's first benefactor of libraries when public education was minimal and
                    the public library concept was in its infancy. The nation would wait for the twentieth century to
                    see his cultural philanthropy continued in the libraries of Andrew Carnegie.
            No one would assert that Robert Owen, William Maclure, and their "Boatload of
                    Knowledge" worked their intended revolution in human character or effected a utopia in 
                        New Harmony
                     or around the globe. But no one can deny that their dreams and talents produced a
                    social experiment that ennobled many lives and brought science and education to the Midwest.
            
            
                    APPENDIX THE BOATLOAD OF KNOWLEDGE PASSENGER LIST (PITTSBURGH TO NEW HARMONY, DECEMBER
                        8, 1825–JANUARY 24, 1826)
                
            Organizers: 
                  Wiulam Maclure—Scottish merchant, geologist, patron of Pestalozzian schools and
                            libraries
                  Robert Owen—cotton manufacturer and social reformer of New Lanark, 
                                Scotland
                            
                  
               
            
            Scientists: 
                  Thomas Say—American naturalist, entomologist, conchologist, elected captain of
                            the "Boatload of Knowledge"
                  Charles-Alexandre Lesueur—French naturalist, zoologist, ichthyologist, artist,
                            teacher
               
            
            Pestalozzian Educators and Their Students: 
                  Madame Marie Louise Duclos Fretageot—French educator in William Maclure's
                            schools in 
                                Paris
                             before 1821 and in 
                                Philadelphia
                             (1821–1825), then in 
                                New Harmony
                             schools after 1826
                  William S. Phiquepal d'Arusmont—French educator in Maclure's boys' schools in 
                                Paris
                             before 1823 and in 
                                Philadelphia
                             (1824–1825), then in Maclure's School of Industry in 
                                New Harmony
                             after 1826
                  Phiquepal's students including:
                        Alexis d'Arusmont
                        Peter L. Duclos
                        Victor Colin Duclos
                        Amedie Dufour
                        Charles Falque
                        Achille(s) Fretageot—son of Marie Duclos
                        Fretageot
                     
                  
               
            
            Artists and Musicians: 
                  Balthazar Abernasser (Obernesser)—Swiss artist, taught painting in 
                                New Harmony
                             schools
                  Virginia Dupalais—ward and student of Lesueur, taught art and music later in 
                                New Harmony
                             schools
               
            
            Physician and Family: 
                  Dr. William Price, his wife Hannah Fisher Price, and their three children
               
            
            
            Other Notables: 
                  Robert Dale Owen—eldest son of Robert Owen, kept journal of voyage, advocate of
                            educational and social reform as an author of 1858 Indiana Constitution and as Indiana and
                            U. S. legislator, helped create Smithsonian Institution
                  Stedman Whitwell—English architect, made six-foot-square model of Robert Owen's
                            projected utopian city
                  Donald Macdonald—Scottish social reformer, associate of Robert Owen
                  John Beal, his wife, and daughter Caroline—John taught carpentry in Maclure's
                            School of Industry in 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  
                  Mrs. Helen Fisher—Russian sister-in-law of Hannah Fisher Price
                  Charles Schmidt—Prussian servant of Robert Owen
               
            
            Other Passengers: 
                  Cecilia Noël—became first wife of Achille(s) Fretageot
                  Victor Dupalais—brother of Virginia Dupalais William Herring
                  William McArthur (misspelled in Robert Dale Owen's journal as William McCarter)
                  James Frazer—stepson of Judge Benjamin Tappan who boarded at Steubenville, 
                                Ohio
                            , January 9, 1826
                  Sarah Turner—a young woman
                  Several workmen enroute to 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  
               
            
            Crew of as many as eleven
         
         
         
            The Boatload of Trouble: William Maclure and Robert Owen Revisited
            Charles Burgess∗
            
            No ill-fated communitarian venture has been examined or analyzed more than Robert Owen's attempt to
                    create an ideal society at 
                        New Harmony
                     in the 1820s. Calamitous in failure yet magnificent in legacy, 
                        New Harmony
                     calls to mind Walt Whitman's "Vivas to those who have fail'd!" For
                    more than a century and a half, historians, antiquarians, and not a few latter-day utopians have
                    conducted countless postmortem inquiries into Owen's short lived venture on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Many shortcomings in Owen's scheme and strategy are familiar. The insightful
                    observations of Arthur Bestor, fleshed out further by many fellow historians, identify a host of
                    crippling managerial miscues committed by Owen. As Bestor convincingly noted, "Each of
                    Owen's personal mistakes had been sufficient in itself to wreck the experiment." Which
                    mistake was the most serious? In response to this question Bestor posed a pointed rhetorical query
                    of his own: "In a firing squad, if all the guns are loaded, which man performs the
                        execution?"1
            
            In sharp contrast to his serious managerial difficulties, however, Owen has also been credited with
                    some flashes of brilliance. By most accounts, no flash outshone his success in persuading William
                    Maclure to join forces with him at 
                        New Harmony
                    . In this instance, again as Bestor put it, Owen "achieved his most significant
                    triumph in America."2 Bestor's claim makes eminent sense from the
                    perspective of western educational history. Indeed, when seen from this angle of vision, the
                    Owen-Maclure alliance merits lasting triumphal acknowledgement. But when considered from the
                    perspective of Owen's immediate communitarian plans, it was nothing less than a disastrous marriage.
                    The alliance may have been Owen's most grievous miscalculation.
            
               
                  ∗ Charles Burgess is professor emeritus of history of
                        education, University of 
                            Washington
                        , Seattle. The author wishes to express his gratitude to Josephine M. Elliott,
                        archivist emerita of the University of Southern Indiana, for encouragement in the preparation of
                        this paper based on an earlier essay, "A House Divided: Robert Owen and William Maclure
                        at 
                            New Harmony
                        ," Journal of the Midwest History of Education Society,
                        III (1975), 110-21. Special thanks also belong to Mine Cook who, as an archivist in the
                        Workingmen's Institute Library, 
                            New Harmony
                        , so ably assisted in all inquiries.
               
                  1 Arthur E. Bestor, Backwoods Utopias: The Sectarian and
                            Owenite Phases of Communitarian Socialism in America, 1663–1829 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1950), 227, 228.
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 134.
            
            
            What brought these two reformers together? What made them think they could work profitably as a team?
                    Several apparent similarities could have formed the basis of mutual attraction. Here were two men,
                    each brilliant in his own right, each dedicated to the ideals of social cooperation, meliorism, and
                    education.
            Robert Owen, for example, had formulated a generally consistent theory of ideal community life that
                    rested upon the plinth of education. Since 1800, when Owen became the manager of the cotton
                    mills—and village life—of New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , he had gained an international reputation as an educational and social reformer. Owen
                    had in fact become a social reformer because of the "logic of his educational
                        doctrine."3 Upon the strength of his plan for the schooling of 
                        New Harmony
                     children he rested his hopes for the long range success of his Indiana experiment. He
                    came to 
                        New Harmony
                     strong in the faith that he could so control "external circumstances"
                    as to shape every child according to certain general specifications for cooperative enterprise in an
                    ideal community. Owen came believing his program of education could be wielded "with the
                    certainty of a law of nature."4 And he also came believing that William
                    Maclure and he shared compatible social and educational doctrines.
            Owen was greatly impressed with Maclure's brilliant reputation. Since retiring at the turn of the
                    century from lucrative years in business and settling in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Maclure had won wide acclaim as a leading scientist, philanthropist, and patron of
                    social reform through Pestalozzian education.5 Maclure was more than an eminent
                    pioneering geologist, the first president of the American Geological Society, and president of the
                    Academy of Natural Sciences. He was also an astute student of Johann Pestalozzi's educational
                    theories and practices, a builder of an experimental schoolcentered community in 
                        Spain
                    , and a patron of such Pestalozzian teachers as Joseph Neef and Marie Duclos Fretageot.
                    And Owen rightly knew Maclure to be first and foremost an educational reformer.
            But it required admirable powers of persuasion for Owen to convince Maclure to join in the utopian
                    venture at 
                        New Harmony
                    , for Maclure still nursed wounds from an ill-fated venture of his own. In 1820, eager
                    to test his own ideas of social reform through education, Maclure had put aside his scientific and
                    educational activities 
                  
                     3 Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., ed., Education and Reform at 
                                    New Harmony
                                : Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XV, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 292.
                  
                     4 Robert Owen, Essays on the Formation of the Human
                                Character (
                                London
                            , 1840), 6. The essays were first published in 1812.
                  
                     5 Some sources put the date of Maclure's
                            "retirement" in America at 1799. See J. Percy Moore, William
                            Maclure—Scientist and Humanitarian," Proceedings of the
                                American Philosophical Society, XCI (1947), 236; and Charles Burgess,
                            "William Maclure and Education for a Good Society," History
                                of Education Quarterly, III (June, 1963), 58-76.
               
                     in the 
                        United States
                     to launch an experiment in 
                        Spain
                    . There he had purchased a ten-thousand acre tract near Alicante and embarked on an
                    ambitious schooling venture based on his faith in education as the key to the Good Society. But
                    turmoil in 
                        Spain
                     gave him little opportunity to test his ideas. In the midst of national insurrections,
                    marauding guerrilla bands, monotonous uncertainty about the durability of the Cortes, and local
                    threats to reestablish the terrors of the Inquisition, Maclure's educational venture sputtered
                    fitfully, and in 1824, after nearly four years of uphill struggles, it ended abruptly with the
                    confiscation of Maclure's property.6 Maclure found refuge in America, his
                    adopted land. There, as he licked his wounds, he grew wary. But he kept a firm grip on his ideals
                    and remained a staunch advocate of educational reform.
            It was in the capacity of educational reformer that Owen particularly wanted Maclure. Owen sensed
                    correctly that through their partnership Maclure's connections in the international community of
                    scholars would attract a distinguished faculty to 
                        New Harmony
                    . Out of their discussions grew a proposal to divide the communitarian labors. Owen
                    would manage the general community; Maclure would supervise the educational program. Maclure seemed
                    relieved at the prospect of fixing his energies exclusively on educational matters. This was not to
                    be a return to Old World 
                        Spain
                    . Not only did Maclure draw "courage" from Owen's successes
                    "against a powerfull [sic] combination of both church and
                    state," he also fervently believed "the field of moral experiment in the 
                        United States
                     to be the finest in the Globe."7 Maclure's opposition
                    softened and he agreed to forge an alliance. He further delighted Owen by agreeing to invest money
                    of his own in the 
                        New Harmony
                     venture and to accept responsibility for the proposed scholarly and educational
                    programs. In 1825, with one disastrous investment of time, energy, and money barely behind him,
                    Maclure found himself organizing a new educational crusade.
            From the outset, Maclure's prestige and infectious enthusiasm attracted famous scientists to 
                        New Harmony
                    —Thomas Say, Gerard Troost, and Charles-Alexandre Lesueur among them. He also
                    enlisted such Pestalozzian specialists as Joseph Neef, Marie Duclos Fretageot, and Phiquepal
                    d'Arusmont, and ordered a "vast collection" of books and scientific instruments to
                    be shipped from 
                        New Orleans
                    . In 1826, the famous "Boatload of Knowledge" transported Maclure's
                    paraphernalia, friends, and associates down the 
                        Ohio
                     to the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    .8 Word of this stunning educational migration spread 
                  
                     6 Alberto Gil Novales, William Maclure in 
                                    Spain
                                
                     , trans. Alonso Carnicer (Madrid, 1981). The Cortes, a parliamentary
                            assembly, supported the Constitution of 1812 and limited royal power. The assembly strove
                            fitfully for legitimacy until 1823 when Ferdinand became an absolute monarch.
                  
                     7 Bestor, Education and Reform, 207.
                  
                     8 For an instructive account of the "Boatload of
                            Knowledge," see Donald E. Pitzer, "The Original Boatload of Knowledge Down
                            the 
                                Ohio River
                            : William Maclure's and
               
                    
                    
                  FRANCES TROLLOPE, MARY CARROLL, WILLIAM MACLURE, AND FRANCES WRIGHT IN MARY CARROLL'S NEW ORLEANS HAT SHOP
                  
                  Reproduced from Frances Trollope, Domestic Manners of the
                            Americans (
                                London
                            , 1832), opposite page 12.
                rapidly. 
                        New Harmony
                     was indeed gaining a reputation as the coming site of "the best library and
                    the best School in the 
                        United States
                    ."9
            
            But the glow of expectation soon darkened into the gloom of disappointment. Once in 
                        New Harmony
                     Owen quickly became unhap py with the pedagogical practices of Maclure and his
                    colleagues. He launched a determined attempt to gain control of the educational enterprise that
                    rightfully regarded Maclure as its director. Owen's preferred pedagogical principles failed to win
                    the support of Maclure, Neef, and, as it developed, of his own sons. Bitter debates ensued with
                    disastrous abandon over several central pedagogical issues that neither disputant had fully
                    anticipated when they joined forces.10
            
            In 1825 Owen handed Maclure the educational reins in 
                        New Harmony
                    , believing that he and Maclure were in essential agreement on pedagogical matters. Both
                    accepted the argument that a thoroughgoing social reconstruction depended upon an enlightened
                    pedagogy. They shared a belief in the power of environment. For both men all human traits were, and
                    must always be, necessary results of conditions in the physical world. But while both partners
                    pursued the same general objectives, they approached them from vastly different directions. Owen
                    framed his objective as a rigid syllogism in support of welfare corporatism. If human character is
                    everywhere imposed upon the individual by external forces, and if society is the creator of those
                    forces, then society bears full responsibility for the conduct and attitudes of its members. And the
                    demands of society dictate the general character to be stamped on each of its members. 
                  Robert Owen's Transfer of Science and Education to the Midwest,
                            1825–1826," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Journal of Science, LXXXIX (December, 1989), 128-42.
                  
                     9 Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana as Seen By Early
                                Travelers, (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 411.
                  
                     10 Robert Owen, Life of Robert Owen (1857; 
                                New York
                            , 1920), xii; Bestor, Education and Reform, 362,367f., 385,
                            387f., 394f.; Will S. Monroe, History of the Pestalozzian Movement in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Syracuse
                            , N.Y., 1907), 122; Paul 
                                Brown
                            , Twelve Months in 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1827), 100-16 passim.
                  
               
                     Fixed firmly in Owen's mind, this argument became the goal, and
                    education became the "most important" vehicle, for social reconstruction.11
            
            Owen wanted to establish at 
                        New Harmony
                     an exemplary school of communal education to showcase his "new view"
                    of community life in the New World. In America he sought to replace the Jeffersonian suspicion of a
                    strong central government with his own utilitarian credo: that government is best which defines and
                    provides the greatest happiness for the greater number. Happiness grew out of effective relations
                    between the paternal leader and a cooperative, productive populace.
            Ever the entrepreneur, Owen believed that the successful industrialist knew best how to provide the
                    greatest happiness in the social setting. While praising the ideas of "mental
                    independence" and individual rights, Owen maintained that the needs of community were
                    paramount. When individual and community inevitably collided, Owen's community emerged unscathed;
                    the individual invariably found the limits of "mental independence" and individual
                    rights determined by community interests. As historians Jacob Bronowski and Bruce Mazlich observe,
                    Owen substituted "his Captains of Industry for Plato's Philosopher Kings; he was saying
                    that the organizational skills necessary for entrepreneurship in industry are also those needed in
                    undertakings for the reconstruction of society."12 The enlightened
                    "Captain of Industry" was one who looked after the psychological, social, and
                    physical needs of his workers. One might legitimately call Owen a seminal philosopher of
                    corporatism, an early advocate of the "organized man" in the corporate community.
                    Since the 1820s, those with ideas similar to Owen's have striven to pull the 
                        United States
                     toward "a plurality of welfare communities, i.e., the corporations, rather
                    than a single national welfare state…."13 Certainly those
                    who looked hopefully to communitarianism as the solution to the social and economic problems of the
                    Gilded Age often agreed that reform could succeed best under the aegis of leaders "who have
                    at least as much ability and intelligence as is required, for instance, in the succed management of
                    a railroad or a bank or large manufactory."14
            
            Owen represented management ideals; he wanted 
                        New Harmony
                     children educated for a world of benevolent paternalism. The group was vastly more
                    important to Owen than its individual members; the cooperative character acquired by the community's
                    children more important than the creative intelligence endowed to each. 
                  
                     11 Robert Owen, Two Discourses on a New System of
                                Society… (
                                London
                            , 1825), 34; see also Owen's address in the 
                                New Harmony
                            
                            Gazette, November 22, 1826.
                  
                     12 Jacob Bronowski and Bruce Mazlich, The Western
                                Intellectual Tradition From Leonard O. to Hegel (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 469, 450-71 passim.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 467, 467n. See also William H. Whyte, The Organization
                                Man (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1957), 8; G. D. H. Cole, Robert Owen (
                                London
                            , 1925), 105.
                  
                     14 William Alfred Hinds, American Communities (
                                New York
                            , 1961), 163.
               
                    
                    
                  VIEW OF NEW HARMONY BY ARTIST KARL BODMER WATERCOLOR ON PAPER, 1832; 61/4″ ×
                            103/4″
                  Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, 
                                Nebraska
                            , Gift of the Enron Art Foundation, and Historic 
                        New Harmony, New
                                Harmony
                     , Indiana.
               
                     Owen's view of human nature reinforced this preference. He
                    believed original human nature to be good. Each human being, he declared, is "a delightful
                    compound, containing the germs of unalloyed excellence" that requires but a
                    "kindly soil and careful cultivation" to develop sound character.15
            
            Owen beheld still other important innate dispositions: each child possessed a congenital love of
                    truth and a remarkably strong faculty of altruism. Despite his talk of self-interest, he believed
                    one of the "original faculties" of human nature was "the desire to
                    benefit our fellow creatures to the greatest possible extent."16 Apart
                    from this dramatic qualification, Owen seemed intellectually sympathetic toward Lockean and
                    Helvetian learning theories and at first praised the work of Johann Pestalozzi and Emmanuel
                    Fellenberg. Operationally, however, he proved too impatient to plant belief in the child's heart to
                    be in league with these noted educators. At 
                        New Harmony
                     he abandoned Pestalozzi in favor of 
                        Lancaster
                     and the monitorial model of instruction—a model based on an image of the
                    child as a passive being who quietly received and accepted on faith the significance of the
                    knowledge given to him.17 Certainly, passive and uniform group experiences could
                    be controlled better than active and spontaneous experiences in learning.
            Owen wanted a high degree of uniformity imposed on each child's nature, while Maclure wanted each
                    child raised in an atmosphere of spontaneity and choice. Owen rebuked Maclure for encouraging 
                        New Harmony
                     teachers in practices that thwarted Owen's desire to implant "similar
                    habits" within each child. He tried in vain to convince Maclure to form "one
                    well-digested arrangement" of education. But instead of keeping children together in one
                    group while teachers took turns giving instruction, each of Maclure's teachers followed a
                    semi-Rousseauian plan, taking a select number of children under exclusive tutelage for the entire
                    course of their formal education. Maclure thus brought what Owen called "divisive"
                    influences into the school. Owen was here thwarted in his "most earnest desire, that all the children should be educated in similar habits and 
                  
                     15
                            
                                New Harmony
                            
                            Gazette, January 10, 1827.
                  
                     16 Owen, Two Discourses, 9.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid.; see also Robert Owen, A Diagram, Illustrative of the
                                Formation of the Human Character, suggested by Mr. Owen's Development of a New View of
                                Society (
                                London
                            , 1824), passim; Cole, Robert Owen, 100;
                            Bestor, Education and Reform, 367f, 387f.; 
                                Brown
                            , Twelve Months, 100f., 107-16; 
                                Monroe
                            , History of the Pestalozzian Movement, 122; Robert Dale Owen,
                                Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography: Threading My Way (
                                New York
                            , 1874). 195f. Owen also objected to Maclure's curricular inclusion of farming
                            and mechanics. "Mr. Owen in his enthusiasm," Maclure said, "gave
                            a bad lesson to the communicants, teaching them to live without labour, which they will not
                            easily forget." He predicted that someday "schoolmasters will be obliged
                            to understand both farming and mechanics." Thomas James De la Hunt, comp., History of the 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Working Men's Institute, 
                                    New Harmony
                                , Indiana, Founded by William Maclure, 1838–1927 (
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., 1927), 27.
               
                     dispositions, and be brought up truly as members of one large
                    family, without a single discordant feeling."18
            
            Owen linked his concern for implanting similar attitudes and beliefs in all 
                        New Harmony
                     children to a peculiar and unexpected antagonism to the boarding school program that
                    Maclure preferred and initiated. By common consent among the avant garde of the early nineteenth
                    century, boarding schools were at the cutting edge of "enlightened" education.
                    They were widely held as vastly superior to day schools if one desired to mold children to fit some
                    ideal type. American academies were frequently boarding schools. Philips Andover, Philips Exeter,
                    Deerfield, and 
                        Milton
                     come readily to mind. The Roundhill School of Joseph Green Cogswell and George
                    Bancroft, the 
                        Quaker
                     school Oakwood at Poughkeepsie, several Shaker schools, and Emma Willard's 
                        Troy
                     Female Seminary had followed this principle. Pestalozzi and Fellenberg, two of the most
                    respected "modern" educators of the era, ran internationally famous boarding
                    schools. Indeed, Owen himself had sent his four sons—Robert Dale, William, Richard, and
                    David Dale—to board with Fellenberg. How could Owen have been surprised or dismayed at
                    Maclure's preference for the boarding school? Did he forget that Maclure had been master of his own
                    boarding school in 
                        Spain
                     and that he had encouraged Joseph Neef in boarding school ventures from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                    ?
            
               
                        New Harmony
                    's adults were not transplanted, dutiful New Lanarkians. They came representing a
                    hodgepodge of values. Certainly some parents strongly objected to the boarding school
                        arrangement.19 But by allying with them, Owen put himself in a peculiarly
                    inconsistent position. On the one hand, Owen wanted all children to be educated in similar habits
                    and dispositions, but on the other hand, he wanted them returned to their own homes every evening
                    where they would "be under the eye and inspection of their parents."20 Owen here trampled on one of Maclure's central requirements for sound education.
                    Maclure built for utopia gradually, through education. Owen hoped to be recognized as the Benevolent
                    Leader as he had been at New Lanark and thereby transform a tumultuous multitude into instant
                    utopians, Owen was optimistic about his ability to transplant new values in older minds. Maclure was
                    skeptical about reshaping adults' values.21
            
            
               
                  18 From an address Owen delivered on May 6,1827, quoted in 
                            Brown
                        , Twelve Months, 100f.
               
                  19 Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker, comps., Readings in
                            Indiana History (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVI; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1956), 233.
               
                  20 Owen, Two Discourses, 34.
               
                  21 Maclure argued that a boarding school should free the children
                        "from the temptation of imitating the vices and passions of their parents."
                        But here he momentarily relented in his insistence that adults could not change their views by
                        adding, "The improvement of the child will conduce to a change in the parent, and
                        civilization be advanced at both ends." As the 
                            New Harmony
                         encounter continued to run sour, however, Maclure began to think utopia was
                        possible only through boarding schools filled exclusively with orphans. See Bestor, Education and Reform, 301, 308f., 351.
            
            
            
               THEATRE BACKDROP OR SOCIAL COMMENTARY? SKETCH BY CHARLES-ALEXANDRE LESUEUR
               
               Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle du Havre, Le Havre, 
                            France
                         (#46245).
            
            
            In an age when institutions were more flexible and transitory, Maclure, like Pestalozzi, saw
                    education as the only way to bring both individual and institutional improvements.
                    Perfection—of individual and group—could come only by providing an enlightened
                    education for children. Such had been the argument presented by Pestalozzi himself in his book Leonard and Gertude (1781). Cast as a social essay in the fictionalized manner of
                    Rousseau's Emile, Leonard and Gertrude had provided an excellent example of how
                    the powers of education could lead to the spiritual and moral uplift of the imaginary village of
                    Bonnal. The town leaders of Bonnal came alive to the possibilities of far-reaching reform through
                    proper—meaning Pestalozzian—education; and the residents rallied behind their
                    school.
            Together "they regarded the proper education of the youthful population as the only means of
                    elevating the condition of the corrupt village."22 Their patience and
                    steadfastness produced wondrous results. The village prospered. The moral tone and sense of social
                    responsibility among the villagers rose to the point that the public gallows could be torn down and
                    a new hospital erected. Temperance became a way of life. Education brought to Bonnal the spirit of
                    intelligent social brotherhood. Soon other villages were following the example set by Bonnal.
                    Educational reformation and social uplift were on the march. Leonard and Gertrude
                    represented a process of improvements that Maclure could applaud.
            Joseph Neef could also smile upon Pestalozzi's slow-but-sure approach to perfection. Neef supported
                    Maclure's gradualism and accused the impatient Owen of trying to prepare youth for life in a
                    "feudal barony" rather than in an enlightened community.23
                    Maclure, too, wrapped Owen in dreary Old World imagery. He called Owen a
                    "Bonaparte" who sought to bring monarchy to America with his
                    "superfkial" knowledge of proper education.24 Uniformity in
                    subject, method, and procedure destroyed for Maclure all that was central in learning.25 He sought instead to bring the power of reason to the child, 
                  
                     22 Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, Leonard and Gertrude,
                            trans. Eva Channing (
                                Boston
                            , 1885), 135. Maclure did abandon the religious dimensions of Pestalozzi's
                            pedagogy, the stress on love, and those "softer" aspects of his pedagogy
                            in favor of the more reason-driven expectations of a modern Deist.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Brown
                            , Twelve Months, 109.
                  
                     24 Bestor, Education and Reform, 362, 366, 368. Neef
                            best expressed his views on education in his Sketch of a Plan and Method of
                                Education (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1808).
                  
                     25 Maclure made abundantly clear his opposition to lock-step teaching
                            in his collection of Opinions on Various Subjects, Dedicated to the Industrious
                                Producers, (2 vols., 
                                New Harmony
                            , 1831-1837, I, 62,447, 11, 29, 58, 287, 524, passim. For an
                            analysis of the relationship between education and society developed in Maclure's Opinions and other papers, reposited at the Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, see Burgess, "William Maclure," passim. Regarding the Opinions, it should be noted that there
                            are extant editions of this work in two-and three-volume sets. For an explanation, see
                            Bestor, Education and Reform, 407f., and Bestor, Backwoods
                                Utopias, 146. See also 
                                Monroe
                            , History of the Pestalozzian Movement, 122.
               
                     encouraged spontaneity in teaching, and accepted the
                    development of character as a by-product of creative inquiry.
            Owen must by this time have realized that Maclure was an unorthodox communitarian, since Maclure
                    believed radical reformism was only a young and unsteady movement in an atmosphere of widespread
                    ignorance. He viewed 
                        New Harmony
                     as a potential utopia, but its full promise was in the distant future. The mission of
                    his school therefore was simply to teach "the rising generation to think
                    by a useful and practical education." Owen's dreams of perfect community, chided Maclure,
                    dricted into his mind from a world still "some ages" away.26
                    Experimentation, respect for facts, and avoidance of opinion brought intelligence to Maclure's
                    students. But Owen was impatient for consensus to reign in the community. Maclure sternly decried
                    Owen's conformist goals. Here was a man, Maclure noted, who, lacking even "the smallest
                    idea of a good education," preferred to fill young heads with little more than precepts and
                    abstractions. Maclure was aghast at Owen's "parrot method of sticking incomprehensibles
                    into the memory of Children as you would do pins into a pincushion…." The
                    correct antidote to Owen's pedagogy was "the Pestalozzian System as taught by Mr.
                        Neef."27
            
            In short, Maclure argued, it was essential to reject Owen's insistence that dogma be laid down in the
                    classroom. Dogma was repugnant to those who shared Maclure's views of learning.28 Outraged by Owen, Joseph Neef fumed, "A rational man is a man who consults
                    experience and acts in conformity with the results of his experience; whose actions are invariably
                    based on his knowledge and not on his belief." Students should be trained "to
                    gather knowledge by their own senses, to consult experience in every instance, to analyze, to
                    examine, to investigate everything, to believe nothing."29
            
            Maclure and his like-minded colleagues argued for rational encounters, inquisitive and even skeptical
                    behavior, suspended judgments, an experimental attitude, and for a future world where honest and
                    reasonable persons might disagree without rancor, redesign their collective purposes, and embrace a
                    process based on experimentation. In Owen's eyes, Maclure's plan for a village full of mentally
                        
                  
                     26 Bestor, Education and Reform, 387f. Emphasis the
                            author's.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 367f., 376, 385.
                  
                     28 Not all the faculty stood behind Maclure. Marie Duclos Fretageot
                            was critical of the scientific researches of Maclure's associates such as Thomas Say, Gerard
                            Troost, and Charles Alexandre Lesueur. She branded their inquiries and attitudes toward
                            learning as amounting to "hurtful" knowledge that "carries the
                            mind astray, in fact it is false knowledge," and dismayed Maclure by defending
                            Owen's pedagogical views. Given either her professional posture or considering the shaky
                            state of 
                                New Harmony
                            , Maclure hesitated to speak abroad of her Infant School because it was built on
                            "volcanic soil." See Bestor, Education and Reform, 371,
                            390. Nonetheless, the Maclure-Fretageot friendship and collaboration continued long after
                            Owen had abandoned his 
                                New Harmony
                             venture.
                  
                     29 Quoted in 
                                Brown
                            , Twelve Months, 114f.
               
                     independent individuals amounted to subversion. Belief,
                    commitment, loyalty—these were the character traits Owen treasured! He rejected a
                    pedagogy that cast confusion in the form of skeptical reasoning before the student. Owen wanted 
                        New Harmony
                     children to grow in loyalty to community dictates. In return he promised to guide their
                    shared purposes and satisfy their collective needs. If youth entered adulthood less able to rely on
                    their own initiative, they would be better able to accept leadership and counsel.
            Owen and Maclure labored at an impossible task, one that involved creating two significantly
                    different good societies with shared raw materials. Maclure might have known this early; Owen later,
                    if never fully. Maclure militantly opposed every form of learning that did not permit doubting; he
                    held such pedagogy to be the instrument of tyranny over the human mind. He firmly believed that the
                    good society awaited a universal education in enlightened self-interest and rational skepticism.
                    There were no shortcuts. He pressed uncompromisingly for critical inquiry as the method and aim of
                    learning. He beheld in the common people of both sexes the potential to exercise intelligent,
                    independent judgment on all matters. With knowledge "as taught by Mr. Neef" made
                    accessible to all, a moral life of equality of concern in all spheres of social enterprise would at
                    last open to the human family. In the interests of that moral life to come and especially to teach
                    young people how to face vexing problems forthright-ly and intelligently, Maclure urged the 
                        New Harmony
                     school faculty to compare critically the ends served by his and Owen's teaching methods
                    and purposes.
            Owen, meanwhile, kept calling for public "happiness" and pursuing it as if it were
                    an obligation incurred by successful entrepreneurship. Guided by his inner light and the power of
                    wealth, Owen celebrated corporate paternalism. The ideal school, it followed logically, should
                    induct the child into the way of life sanctioned by the community management. The school educated
                    for happiness by promoting perfected employee-employer relations in an ideal work-a-day world. Owen
                    was to be the liberal employer. He would provide work, supervise its progress and return profits to
                    the community, distribute the fruits of the corporate effort equally, care for the sick, and educate
                    the children to take assigned places in the community's quest for happiness. In return he asked for
                    gratitude expressed only in wholehearted cooperation.30
            
            One might well suspect that a full series of carefully conducted case studies of "company
                    towns" and communities dominated by one fairly stable corporate industry would confirm that
                    Robert Owen, 
                  
                     30 Owen "could lead, but could not follow; could organize,
                            but could never really co-operate. He demanded from all his associates an unquestioning
                            obedience to his inner light." Cole, Robert Owen, 238f.; see also
                            Frank Podmore, Robert Owen (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1906, I, 343.
               
                     as an important pioneer of corporatism, laid plans more
                    prophetic than Maclure's. Paternalism meant progress in his lexicon. But such an approach to
                    progress led Jane Addams to observe, "In so far as philanthropists are cut off from the
                    influence of the Zeitgeist, from the code of ethics which rules the body of men, from the great
                    moral life springing from our common experience, so long as they are 'good to people' rather than
                    'with them,' they are bound to accomplish a large amount of harm. They are outside the influence of
                    that great faith which perennially springs up in the hearts of the people, and recreates the
                        world."31
            
            Owen's communitarian views, when set against Maclure's, were more orthodox. Preachment and positive
                    reinforcement of communal beliefs had by then become common pedagogical devices in utopian plans.
                    Plato had imposed similar restrictions on teaching in his Republic; and Augustine had made a seminal
                    link between pagan and Christian planners by stressing the will more than reason and elevating
                    belief above understanding. Many religious communitarians had followed suit dutifully and logically.
            Owen and Maclure were most unlikely collaborators. It was as if a Plato had undertaken a 
                        New Harmony
                     venture with an Aristotle as a partner. Their alliance carved the mark of tragedy on
                    Owen's communitarian dreams. The banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     glowed fiery in the heat of their stormy clashes. Theory became plural, disheveled, and
                    left no prospect for unified community practice. Perhaps the alliance amounted to more than one
                    additional error to add to the list of Owen's miscues, more than one extra loaded gun to add to the
                    firing squad. Owen's union with Maclure might have been sufficiently suicidal to make one wonder
                    whether the firing squad had pumped its shots into a cadaver.
            
               
                  31 Jane Addams, "A Modern Lear," in American Social Thought, ed. Ray Ginger (
                            New York
                        , 1961), 200.
            
         
         
         
            The Parallel Impacts of William Maclure and Amos Eaton on American Geology, Education, and Public
                    Service
            Markes E. Johnson∗
            
            Two independent centers of education were established simultaneously during the early part of the
                    nineteenth century by William Maclure in southern Indiana and by Amos Eaton in eastern 
                        New York
                    . Geology was only one of many sciences thereby promoted locally. A commanding role,
                    however, was eventually played by these centers in shaping the intersection of public service and
                    applied or practical geology that survives today under the authority of state and federal agencies
                    responsible for geological exploration and survey work. Maclure was thirteen years senior to Eaton
                    in age. Although from different generations and from different family backgrounds, both were
                    attracted to geology as self-taught individuals. At best, these two geologists and educators shared
                    only the most attenuated connections, but they both operated under the guiding influence of larger
                    tendencies in American life to make science a public servant of humanity.
            In his massive 1924 compilation on The First One Hundred Years of American Geology,
                    George P. Merrill devotes the fmt two chapters to the "Maclurean Era,
                    1785–1819" and the "Eatonian Era, 1820–1829."1 The exploits of these two hardy pioneers are intellectually as well as
                    physically monumental. Two of their achievements are particularly noteworthy. Maclure produced the
                    first geological map and texts in 1809 and 1817 summarizing much of the eastern half of North
                    America, an accomplishment derived from thousands of miles of personal exploration on foot. Eaton
                    produced a geographically more constrained but more detailed geological cross section and synthesis
                    in 1824 following the route of the Erie Canal across 
                        New York
                     state.
            Neither of these men was a "closet geologist." That is, they were not content to
                    think about geology while seated indoors surrounded by books as did many of their contemporaries.
                    They were thinkers who 
                  
                     ∗ Markes E. Johnson is professor and chair in the
                            Department of Geosciences, Williams College, Williamstown, 
                                Massachusetts
                            . The author wishes to thank Josephine M. Elliott, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, and Donald E. Pitzer, University of Southern Indiana, 
                                Evansville
                            , for their patient help with additional sources of information and their
                            editorial contributions, all of which much improved the final version of this paper.
                  
                     1 George P. Merrill, The First One Hundred Years of
                                American Geology (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1924).
               
                     not only filled their share of scholarly pages with theoretical
                    notions on the classification of rocks—both men published on the topic in 18182—but they also put their classification schemes into action in the
                    real, out-of-doors world of geology. Both men also were dedicated educators, and the year 1825
                    stands as a landmark in the history of geological education, owing to the independent schools in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, and 
                  Troy, New York
               , which they labored to establish.
                    Geology was but one topic under consideration in their similar plans of education, but its practical
                    utility also fueled a profound change in the way the natural resources of the country were explored
                    and promoted under government aegis.
            The argument of this paper is threefold. First, that there is a direct link between William Maclure
                    and geologist protégé David Dale Owen, son of his 
                        New Harmony
                     partner Robert Owen. Second, that the aftermath of Maclure's educational presence in 
                        New Harmony
                     had profound effects on a rapidly emerging ethic of science and public service in
                    government on a state and national level. And third, that there is an instructional parallel for the
                    development of practical science in America between the careers of Maclure and his fellow geologist
                    and friend Amos Eaton, whose link with his own disciples spread out from his 
                        Rensselaer
                     school at 
                  Troy, New York
               , during the same period.
            Although Merrill's First One Hundred Years of American Geology does not track the
                    educational legacy of these two pioneering geologists, the detailed record he assembled covers all
                    the geological survey projects undertaken in the 
                        United States
                     through most of the nineteenth century as well as the careers of the geologists who
                    performed them. The trail is easily followed by checking how the early generations of American
                    geologists acquired their education. In part, this story is covered by Markes E. Johnson in
                    "Geology in American Education," but further elaboration is provided here.3
            
            How and why did William Maclure and Amos Eaton become enthusiastic converts to the geological
                    sciences, and what role did geology play in their educational programs? An extensive biography of
                    Eaton by Ethel M. McAllister with much documentation is available. Unfortunately, no comparable
                    biography on William Maclure exists. A short memorial by Samuel G. Morton (1844) was written not
                    long after Maclure's death. Most of what we know about Maclure must be extracted from his own
                    published record of beliefs or the voluminous correspondence and travel diaries he left behind. Some
                    of Maclure's letters on education are edited by Arthur Bestor, Jr. 
                  
                     2 William Maclure, "Essay on the Formation of
                            Rocks," Academy of Nuturul Sciences 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 Journal, I (1818), 261-76, 285 310, 327-45, and Amos Eaton, An Index to the Geology of the Northern States (Leicester, Mass., 1818).
                  
                     3 Markes E. Johnson, "Geology in American Education:
                            1825–1860," Geological Society of America Bulletin,
                            LXXXVIII (1977), 1192.
               
                     (1948), and his European travel journals are edited by John
                    Doskey (1988). Many important letters are held by the Workingmen's Institute in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Among these letters are 477 in a most revealing correspondence exchanged between
                    Maclure and his 
                        New Harmony
                     school administrator, Marie Duclos Fretageot, which has been edited by Josephine
                    Mirabella Elliott in Partnership for Posterity: The Correspondence of William Maclure
                        and Marie Duclos Fretageot, 1820–1833 (1994).
            A Scottish immigrant to America with a talent for international trade, Maclure became independently
                    wealthy at a relatively early age. In an 1822 letter to Yale geologist Benjamin Silliman, he
                    explained what attracted him to geology: 
                        When I retired from commerce about twenty-five years ago, I looked round for some occupation
                            that might amuse me always, convinced that a man had the choice of his amusements as well as
                            of his profession, and that common sense dictated an amusement that would produce the
                            greatest good. I adopted rock-hunting as an amusement in place of deer or partridge hunting,
                            considering mineralogy and geology as the sciences most applicable to useful practical
                                purposes.4
                  
                     It is this notion of geology as a useful and practical tool of science to be exploited for
                    the greatest good that most visibly characterizes Maclure's ethic of public service.
            A very similar outlook on the sciences, in general, was cultivated by Amos Eaton, Maclure's
                    contemporary. Although not of the same generation and not geographically close, Maclure and Eaton
                    most assuredly knew each other. The younger Eaton, in fact, showed considerable admiration for the
                    work of his elder. In 1830 he expressed the place Maclure had gained in his own mind and confirmed
                    the rank he would gain in the history of American science. He asked a mutual friend whose son was
                    then a student at his school in 
                  Troy, New York
               , "to be kindly remembered to
                    the father of Geology and Mineralogy in the U[nited] States."5
            
            Eaton was a native of eastern 
                        New York
                     state who attended Williams College, Williamstown, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and graduated in 1799 at the age of twenty-three. His educational background was
                    classical, and it included no formal training in science. A career combining the practice of law and
                    land surveying in the Catskills of 
                        New York
                     was Eaton's goal, but by 1810 he was already experimenting with science education
                    through his efforts to found a botany school. McAllister's construction of the surviving record is
                    sketchy, but Eaton was accused and subsequently convicted of a forgery related to his land 
                  
                     4 Quoted in Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., Education and Reform
                                at 
                                    New Harmony
                                : Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                                1820–1833 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 368.
                  
                     5 George Robertson to an unnamed correspondent posted at 
                                New York
                            , December 3, 1830. This extract, copied in an unknown hand, was sent to Maclure
                            in Mexico where he docketed it himself. Workingmen's Institute, Series I, 
                                New Harmony
                             Correspondence, I.25. 12.
               
                     speculation business. The punishment handed down by the court
                    for his crime was life imprisonment in 
                        New York
                    's Newgate prison. During his imprisonment, Eaton used his free time to read science
                    books, and he soon became a geologist. Granted a pardon late in 1815 at the age of thirty-nine,
                    Eaton went early the next year to Yale College to study geology and mineralogy under Benjamin
                    Silliman.
            By special invitation for a one-year appointment, Eaton returned to Williams College in 1817 to offer
                    the school's first courses in field geology, mineralogy, and botany. His skills as a teacher became
                    widely recognized. Following a year of what the college administration certainly viewed as the
                    rehabilitation of a needy alumnus, the exconvict moved on as an itinerant lecturer offering New 
                        England
                     communities short courses covering a wide range of sciences. By 1824 Eaton had settled
                    in 
                  Troy, New
                        York
               , where he persuaded Stephen 
                        Van
                        Rensselaer
                     to equip a permanent school.
            The school's mission is succinctly stated in a letter dated November 5, 1824, from its patron, 
                        Van
                        Rensselaer
                    , to Dr. Blatchford, a Presbyterian minister in Lansingburgh: 
                        I have established a school at the north end of 
                                Troy
                            , in 
                                Rensselaer county
                            , in the building usually called the Old Bank Place, for the purpose of
                            instructing persons, who may choose to apply themselves to the application of science to the
                            common purposes of Life. My principal object is to quallfy teachers for instructing the sons
                            and daughters of farmers and mechanics, by lectures or otherwise, in the application of
                            experimental chemistry, philosophy and natural history… to agriculture, domestic
                            economy, and the arts and manufactures.6
                  
                    
                    
                        Van
                        Rensselaer
                    's notion of guiding "the application of science to the common purposes of
                    Life"—words surely influenced by Eaton himself—is a very democratic
                    ideal, one clearly fostered by the free and exciting atmosphere of the young republic. It is this
                    atmosphere ripe with potential for growth and change that simultaneously affected William Maclure
                    and influenced his founding of a school in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana.
            On December 8, 1825, William Maclure and a party of 
                        Philadelphia
                     educators and naturalists embarked from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     for 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana. The journey by keelboat down the Ohio River was later
                    referred to as the "Boatload of Knowledge." Maclure's group was responsible for
                    the organization of a school system for Robert Owen's communitarian experiment in 
                        New Harmony
                    . In addition to a staff in charge of the children's school, Maclure attracted several
                    scientists including Gerard Troost, mineralogist and chemist; Thomas Say, zoologist; and
                    Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, naturalist artist. The aspirations of Maclure were as bold as those of
                    Eaton. One year later in 1826, Maclure wrote the following in an announcement to the American Journal of Science, "The schools here will be on such a 
                  
                     6 Quoted in E. M. McAllister, Amos Eaton: Scientist and
                                Educator, 1776–1842 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1941), 368.
               
                    
                    
                  AMOS EATON
                  
                  Reproduced from George B. Merrill The First One Hundred Years of
                                American Geology (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 56.
                scale, as to location, men of talent, and perfection of machinery, as to constitute them
                    the first in the Union for every species of useful knowledge."7
            
            Although the schools he envisioned never matured, the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute survives as a manifestation of Maclure's dream. That dream is
                    clearly described in another published letter of Maclure to Silliman: 
                        Already part of the boy's school is so far organized that they make shoes for themselves, and
                            will soon do it for the whole community. They will likewise have workshops for tailors,
                            carpenters, weavers, ect in the school, all of which trades will be alternately practiced,
                            by the way of recreation from their mental labour of Arithmetic, Mathematics, Natural
                            History, etc., as a useful substitute for gymnastics, to which will 
                        
                           7 Quoted in Johnson, "Geology in American
                                    Education," 1192.
                     
                             be added agriculture and gardening. We have nearly 400
                            children belonging to the society, besides strangers from the different parts of the Union.
                            The girls are taught the same things as the boys… and are classed, alternately,
                            to work in the cotton and woolen mills and in washing, cooking, etc.8
                  
                     Further elaboration as to the importance of geological topics in general education were
                    given by Maclure in his visionary work Opinions on Various Subjects:
                    
                        Mineralogy, or the properties of the different substances that cover the surface of our part
                            of the globe ought to be the fist and perhaps the only subject, of children's instruction.
                            The properties of the different kinds of clay, which are fit for brick-making, furnaces,
                            crucibles, potters, etc, with the mode of testing them; the properties of the different
                            kinds of limestones when burned, for manure, mortar, etc; of the different kinds of rocks
                            for building, road-making, etc., and the mode of trying them; and the properties and uses of
                            the different kinds of metals, etc; the limiting all those researches to substances within
                            their reach, and which they will probably have to work or use in the course of some
                            necessary occupation, are the proper subjects of investigation for the young student. For
                            this purpose I would recommend a cabinet to be collected by the youth themselves; in
                            proportion as they are taught the names and qualities of minerals, gathering a few during
                            every ramble they may take, and learning how to break specimens, accommodated to the drawers
                            of their cabinet. They should then test their hardness, ect. to render them familiar with
                            all their external properties, and this should be so oRen reiterated that they could not
                            possibly forget them….9
                  
                    
            
            On January 3, 1825, six students enrolled for the inaugural term at the 
                        Rensselaer
                     School in 
                        Troy
                    . Eaton, senior professor, was in charge of chemistry, experimental philosophy, geology,
                    and land surveying. The junior professor, Lewis Beck, was responsible for mineralogy, botany, and
                    zoology. A summer and winter term of fifteen weeks each led to a bachelor of natural science degree.
                    Expectations were high for the "Rensselaerean Plan of Education." Today, the 
                        Rensselaer
                     Polytechnic Institute stands as a proud tribute to Eaton's industry.
            Eaton, in a notice published in Silliman's American Journal of Science in 1831,
                    described the regimen of the 
                        Rensselaer
                     School: 
                        The most distinctive character in the plan of the School, consists in giving the pupil the
                            place of teacher, in all his exercises. From schools or colleges, where the highest branches
                            are taught, to the common village schools, the teacher always improves himself more than he
                            does his pupils. Being under the necessity of relying upon his own resources, and of making
                            every subject his own, he becomes an adept as a matter of necessity. Taking advantage of
                            this principle, students of 
                                Rensselaer
                             School learn by giving experiments and demonstrative lectures.10
                  
                     His reflections on the teaching of geology are outlined in his Geological
                        Textbook, and they differ not much from Maclure's emphasis on having students work with raw
                    materials.
            
               
                  8 William Maclure, "Notice of Mr. Owen's Establishment, in
                        Indiana," American Journal of Science, XI (1826), 189-92.
               
                  9 William Maclure, Opinions on Various Subjects, Dedicated to
                            the Industrious Producers (3 vols., 
                            New Harmony
                        , Ind., 1831-1838), I, 49-52.
               
                  10 Amos Eaton, "Traveling term of 
                            Rensselaer
                         School, for 1830, with a notice of the nature of the Institution," American Journal of Science, XIX (1831), 151-59.
            
            
            
                    Teachers will never succeed without specimens sufficient for illustrating the essential
                        characters of all strata. Lay the whole suit on a log table or board, before giving the first
                        lecture, in order of superposition in which they are found in the earth. Define the classes and
                        strata, and name them over, until all the specimens become familiar to the eye and their names
                        to the ear. Question the students around frequently on the synopsis and essential parts of the
                        definitions or cause them to give lectures or dissertations by turns, each referring to
                        specimens while answering or lecturing. Illustrate all parts of the Textbook with specimens, and
                        familiar references. But students should not be confined to reading, to specimens, and to
                        lectures, longer than ten days. They must then be shown the nearest rocks, from day to day, and
                        taught to apply the proper definitions and descriptions.11
               
                
            One of the most innovative teaching devices used at the 
                        Rensselaer
                     School was the forerunner of the geology or biology summer field camp. During the
                    summer of 1826, Eaton and a party of students made a tour on the Erie Canal. This field experience
                    was so successful that an annual summer "traveling term" was instituted. A notice
                    written by Eaton in the American Journal of Science gives a prospectus for one of these trips:
                        
                        The acting officers of the Renssalaer School, have issued notice of a Summer Term of
                            Travelling Instruction in this Institution. It commences on the 23rd of June, 1830 and
                            continues ten weeks. All persons who have previously belonged to this school, or who shall
                            enter at 
                                Troy
                             or 
                                Albany
                             three days before the term commences, will be conveyed by a flotilla of towed
                            canal boats to Lake Erie and returned at the end of the term in the
                            same manner. The instruction will be conducted by professors and assistants of the school,
                            and will consist of lectures and examinations on the following subjects; viz. Mineralogy,
                            Geology, Botany, Zoology, Chemistry, Experimental Philosophy, and Practical Mathematics,
                            particularly Land Surveying, Harbor Survey, and Engineering. Applications will be made by
                            direct inspection of rocks and minerals in place, plants and minute animals in their native
                            localities, the works of the engineer in actual operation, the labors of the agriculturist,
                            etc. One of the largest boats belonging to the flotilla is to be furnished with suitable
                            chemical and philosophical apparatus, and cabinets in mineralogy and geology. A reading
                            room, also is intended to contain such scientific books as are deemed requisite for the
                            course. Students of the course will be required to make collections of whatever is
                            interesting upon the route.12
                  
                     A journal kept by George Clinton and published in 1910 records a lively account of the
                    first canal trip in 1826.13
            
            At this point, it is necessary to develop the relationship between Maclure and David Dale Owen in
                    order to show the educational continuity between Maclure's enterprise and the renewed impetus for
                    practical geology brought to 
                        New Harmony
                     by the younger man. During the last year of his life while living in Mexico, Maclure
                    received a letter (written January 22, 1840) from members of the Workingmen's Institute, which he
                    had founded as the successor to his School of Industry in 
                        New Harmony
                    . In part, the letter reads: 
                  
                     11 Amos Eaton, Geological 
                                    Text
                                -book, for Aiding the Study of North American Geology (2nd ed., 
                                Albany
                            , 1832), 5.
                  
                     12 Amos Eaton, "
                                Rensselaer
                             School Flotilla," American Journal of Science, XVIII
                            (1830), 200-201.
                  
                     13 George W. Clinton, "Journal of a tour from 
                                Albany
                             to Lake Erie in 1826," Buffalo
                                Historical Society Publications, XIV (1910), 275-305.
               
                    
                    
                        David Dale Owen has lately returned from an expedition appointed according to an act of
                            Congress, to make a geological survey of the mineral lands of the 
                                United States
                             in 
                                Iowa
                             and 
                                Wisconsin
                            . Some of our members accompanied him as assistants and they have presented some
                            fine specimens of ore and minerals to the Institute. Will you allow us to arrange some of
                            yours that are lying in the room we occupy, as the study of any part of nature generally
                            tends to arouse thought of these subjects?14
                  
                     The letter attests to the influence Maclure still retained over affairs in 
                        New Harmony
                     and to the reputation of David Dale Owen as a rising geologist. David Dale Owen
                    (1807–1860) was twenty years old when he came to the 
                        United States
                     with his famous father, industrialist and communitarian Robert Owen. He subsequently
                    studied chemistry at 
                        London
                     University before returning to the 
                        United States
                     for the remainder of his life.15 He expanded his knowledge of
                    geology working with Gerard Troost, one of Maclure's former associates, and then earned a medical
                    degree from the 
                        Ohio
                     Medical College in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The letter refers to a very successful federal survey project of lands newly opened
                    for settlement around the lead-mining district in the Upper Mississippi River
                        valley.16 The project was completed under Owen's leadership in little more
                    than three months late in 1839 by utilizing a task force of 139 field assistants. Twenty of these
                    assistants were recruited in 
                        New Harmony
                     from among Owen's neighbors.17
            
            A degree-confirming school was never successfully established in 
                        New Harmony
                    , although David Dale Owen pursued an organized program of scientific research and
                    public lectures using the town as his headquarters. He not only followed in Maclure's path as a
                    geologist dedicated to public service, but he also clearly considered himself a disciple. Owen
                    executed a faithful reproduction of Maclure's portrait, originally painted in 1797 by the English
                    painter Thomas James Northcote, and gave it a prominent place in his 
                        New Harmony
                     home. More important, he also trained several other geologists who rose to successful
                    careers of their own as survey geologists.
            Table 1 lists those individuals associated with 
                        New Harmony
                     who assumed leadership roles in state or federal survey projects. Of the ten projects
                    represented, only one was led by a contemporary of William Maclure. This was Gerard Troost, who
                    became the state geologist of 
                        Tennessee
                    . Six major projects were led by David Dale Owen. Table 2 lists the 
                        New Harmony
                     associates who served in subordinate roles in various state and federal survey
                    projects. Owen himself gained valuable experience working as an assistant for Troost. 
                  
                     14 Quoted in Johnson, "Geology in American
                            Education," 1197.
                  
                     15 N. G. Lane, "
                                New Harmony
                             and Pioneer Geology," Geotimes, XI (1966), 18-22.
                  
                     16 David Dale Owen, Report of a geological exploration of
                                part of 
                           Iowa, Wisconsin
                        , and 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , in U. S., House of Representatives, 28 Cong., sess. 1, 1840,
                            Executive Document 239, p. 161.
                  
                     17 William B. Hendrickson, David Dale Owen: Pioneer
                                Geologist of the Middle West (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1943), 180.
               
                    
                    
                  Table 1 
                                New Harmony
                             Associates Directors of State or Federal Geological Surveys
                  
                     G. Troost
                     
                                
                                    Tennessee
                                
                            
                     1831
                  
                  
                     D. D. Owen
                     Indiana
                     1837
                  
                  
                     D. D. Owen
                     
                        
                                    Iowa
                                -
                                    Wisconsin
                                 & 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     
                     1839
                  
                  
                     D. D. Owen
                     Chippewa District
                     1847
                  
                  
                     D. D. Owen
                     
                                
                                    Northwest Territories
                                
                            
                     1849
                  
                  
                     J. G. Norwood
                     
                                
                                    Illinois
                                
                            
                     1851
                  
                  
                     D. D. Owen
                     
                                
                                    Kentucky
                                
                            
                     1854
                  
                  
                     J. Evans
                     
                        
                                    Washington
                                -
                                    Oregon
                                
                     
                     1854
                  
                  
                     D. D. Owen
                     
                                
                                    Arkansas
                                
                            
                     1857
                  
                  
                     B. F. Shumard
                     
                                
                                    Texas
                                
                            
                     1858
                  
               
                    
                  Table 2 
                                New Harmony
                             Associates Subordinates on State or Federal Geological Surveys
                  
                     D. D. Owen
                     
                                
                                    Tennessee
                                
                            
                     1836
                  
                  
                     J. C. Norwood
                     Chippewa District
                     1847
                  
                  
                     B. F. Shumard
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     R. Owen
                     
                                
                                    Northwest Territories
                                
                            
                     1849
                  
                  
                     J. Evans
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     F. B. Meek
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     J. G. Norwood
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     B. F. Shumard
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     H. Pratten
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     J. G. Norwood
                     
                                
                                    Missouri
                                
                            
                     1853
                  
                  
                     B. F. Shumard
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     F. B. Meek
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     E. T. Cox
                     
                                
                                    Kentucky
                                
                            
                     1854
                  
                  
                     S. T. Lyon
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     B. F. Shumard
                     
                        
                                    Oregon
                                -
                                    Washington
                                
                     
                     1854
                  
                  
                     E. T. Cox
                     
                                
                                    Arkansas
                                
                            
                     1857
                  
                  
                     E. T. Cox
                     
                                
                                    Illinois
                                
                            
                     1858
                  
                  
                     E. B. Meek
                     
                     
                  
               
                    
                     In turn, he provided "on-the-job" training for others like Joseph G.
                    Norwood, J. Evans, and B. F. Shumard, who eventually commanded leadership roles in other state or
                    federal survey projects.
            Maclure was able to watch the unfolding career of David Dale Owen from afar in Mexico through letters
                    from his brother Alexander Maclure in 
                        New Harmony
                    . A letter dated October 18, 1836, for example, provided the following information:
            
                    The science of geology has advanced so far in this country that many of the states have now got
                        their Geological Survey and all of them will doubtless have them soon. Even the State of Indiana
                        and David Dale Owen I think is likely to be appointed the first Geological Surveyor of the State
                        of Indiana, and perhaps he is as well if not better qualified for it than any other person in
                        the state. At present he is on a Geological Tour with Doctor Troost, who is Geologist Surveyor
                        for the State of 
                            Tennessee
                        .18
               
                
            Indeed, in 1837 Indiana confirmed David Dale Owen as her first state geologist. In his first survey
                    report he wrote the following passage in a style strongly evocative of Maclure's ethic of practical
                    science for the common good. 
                        In older states, and more thickly settled countries, Science, going hand in hand with
                            Commercial Enterprise, has already seized upon all the mineral riches that more immediately
                            present themselves. Here, in our young State, comparatively untrodden by the footsteps of
                            inquisitive Science, we have a rich and productive field, on which to imitate their
                            enterprize and rival their discoveries. I have considered it my duty, while surveying a
                            country as new as ours, to remember, that a State just settling, is like a young man
                            starting in life, whom it behooves to secure to himself a competency, before he indulges in
                            unproductive fancies. I have considered it the most important 
                        
                           18 Quoted in Johnson, "Geology in American
                                    Education," 1196-97.
                     
                            
                            
                        SOUTHEAST VIEW FROM FFWME CHURCH SHOWING SHOE FACTORY (LATER DAVID DALE OWEN'S SECOND LABORATORY) SKETCH BY
                                        CHARLES-ALEXANDRE LESUEUR
                        
                        Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle du Havre, Le Havre, 
                                        France
                                     (#46114).
                      object, to search out the hidden resources of the State, and open new fields of
                            enterprise to her citizens. That object effected, time enough will remain to institute
                            inquiries (which a liberal policy forbids us to overlook) of a less productive and more
                            abstract character; inquiries which are interesting in a scientific, rather than a
                            commercial, point of view.19
                  
                     Announced at the beginning of his professional career, this strong ethic of public service
                    through government-sponsored science was entirely typical of Owen's remaining active career and the
                    way he influenced others working with him.
            Table 3 lists those graduates of Eaton's 
                        Rensselaer
                     School who went on to lead state or federal surveys. Eight different survey projects
                    were entrusted to a half dozen individuals who had undergone the same training in
                            
                  Troy, New
                            York
               . The best known of these is James Hall (1811–1898), who
                    led a long and very productive professional career mostly associated with 
                        New York
                     state but also with 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .20 In contrast to the 
                        New Harmony
                     "students," however, only one of the 
                        Rensselaer
                     graduates who served in a subordinate role on a survey project (see Table 4) later rose
                    to a higher position of authority. This is probably partly because of Hall's proclivity to retain
                    the service of his field assistants over a long period of time, some of whom were 
                        Rensselaer
                     graduates.
            
               
                  19 David Dale Owen, "Report of a Geological Reconnaissance of the
                        State of Indiana; made in the year 1837," in Indiana Senate Journal
                        (1837–1838), 132.
               
                  20 J. M. Clark, James Hall of 
                                Albany
                            : Geologist and Palaeontologist, 1811–1898 (
                            Albany
                        , N.Y., 1921), 276, 286.
            
            
            
               Table 3 
                            Rensselaer
                         School Graduates Directors of State Geological Surveys
               
                  E. Emmons
                  
                     
                                New York
                             (2nd Dist.)
                  1836
               
               
                  J. C. Booth
                  
                            
                                Delaware
                            
                        
                  1837
               
               
                  D. Houghton
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  1837
               
               
                  J. Hall
                  
                     
                                New York
                             (4th Dist.)
                  1837
               
               
                  M. Tuomey
                  
                            
                                South Carolina
                            
                        
                  1844
               
               
                  M. Tuomey
                  
                            
                                Alabama
                            
                        
                  1848
               
               
                  E. Emmons
                  
                            
                                North Carolina
                            
                        
                  1851
               
               
                  W. K. Kitchell
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                  1854
               
               
                  J. Hall
                  
                            
                                Iowa
                            
                        
                  1855
               
               
                  J. Hall
                  
                            
                                Wisconsin
                            
                        
                  1857
               
            
            
               Table 4 
                            Rensselaer
                         School Graduates Subordinates on State Geological Surveys
               
                  C. Briggs
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  1835
               
               
                  J. C. Booth
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  1836
               
               
                  C. Briggs
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  1836
               
               
                  E. S. Carr
                  
                     
                                New York
                             (3rd)
                  1837
               
               
                  G. W. Boyd
                  
                  
               
               
                  E. S. Carr
                  
                            
                                Wisconsin
                            
                        
                  1857
               
            
            
            On April 5, 1841, in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Edward Hitchcock addressed the one-year old Association of American Geologists on the
                    subject of the phenomenal growth of state geological surveys throughout the 
                        United States
                    . He was not an alumnus of either the 
                        Rensselaer
                     School or the 
                        New Harmony
                     movement, but he was one of those rare, self-taught individuals who arrived at the
                    crossroads of education and survey work as a professor of geology at Amherst College and the sole
                    agent of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     geological survey, which was founded in 1830. He observed that a total of nineteen
                    state funded surveys were initiated during the nineteen years from 1823–1841. The
                    astonishment over this unusual expansion of government science had not gone unreported to William
                    Maclure, again informed by Alexander Maclure in 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            Hitchcock proudly regarded the rush of the states to form active geological surveys as something
                    "peculiarly American." Indeed, the only other country to have previously
                    considered such a public program was 
                        France
                    , whose Ministry of Mining oversaw the division of that country into 214 districts for
                    potential geological mapping in 1766. There was never any clear agreement on how the maps should be
                    made or their information utilized, and the ambitious project floundered. The initial government
                    surveys in the 
                        United States
                     were strictly state sponsored, the first being undertaken in 
                        North Carolina
                     from 1823–1827 and the second being undertaken in 
                        South Carolina
                     from 1824–1826.21 These projects were poorly funded,
                    however, and the results were marginal. The movement to fund adequately geological survey work from
                    tax revenues did not really begin until 1830 when Hitchcock's 
                        Massachusetts
                     survey was initiated.
            In his 1841 address Hitchcock estimated that "our favorite science is now in this country 20
                    years in advance of what it would have been, if left to individual efforts." What was the
                    motivating spirit behind this historically unusual turn of events? The year 1825 is not only a
                    landmark year in terms of the educational experimentation undertaken by Amos Eaton and William
                    Maclure, but it is also notable for the remarks on the role of government in the promotion of
                    science made during President John Quincy Adams's first annual message to Congress. In part,
                    President Adams said,
            
                    Roads and canals, by multiplying and facilitating the communications and intercourse between
                        distant regions and multitudes of men, are among the most important means of improvement. But
                        moral, political, intellectual improvement are duties assigned by the Author of Our Existence to
                        social no less than to individual man. For the fulfillment of these duties governments are
                        invested with power, and to the attainment of the end—the progressive improvement of
                        the condition of the governed—the exercise of delegated powers is a duty as sacred
                        and indispensable as the usurpation of powers not granted is criminal and odious.
                    
                  
                     21 Markes E. Johnson, "Early Survey Work and the Roots of
                            Geological Education in the Carolinas," Earth Sciences History,
                            IV (1985), 3-9.
               
                    
                    In inviting the attention of Congress to the subject of internal improvements upon a view thus
                        enlarged it is not my design to recommend the equipment of an expedition for circumnavigation of
                        the globe for purposes of scientific research and inquiry. We have objects of useful
                        investigation neafter home, and to which our cares may be more beneficially applied. The
                        interior of our own territories has yet been very imperfectly explored.22
               
                
            The strong spirit of public service exhibited by the rapid growth of the survey movement reflects
                    first and foremost the developing needs of commerce in a free and expanding society. These needs
                    benefitted from the strong moral example set independently in 1825 by William Maclure in 
                        New Harmony
                     and Amos Eaton at the 
                        Rensselaer
                     School in stressing the practical applications of science education to the common good.
                    A fainter echo reverberates from President John Quincy Adams's address before Congress in 1825, in
                    which he advocated a liberal policy of internal improvements based solidly on federal sponsorship of
                    the sciences.
            The most productive and continuous burst of geological survey work occurred through a period of
                    thirty-one years between 1830 and 1860. During that interval, fifty-six separate projects were
                    conducted in thirty-three states or territories. The 
                        New Harmony
                     and 
                        Troy
                     establishments provided leaders and participants for nearly half (48 percent) of thes e
                    Training received by students at the 
                        Rensselaer
                     and 
                        New Harmony
                     establishments followed a simple maxim born of Eaton's and Maclure's educational
                    idealism: learn by doing. David Dale Owen from 
                        New Harmony
                     and James Hall from 
                        Rensselaer
                     were the most prominent geologists of this tradition.
            No other educational institutions come close to the record achieved by these two pioneering schools
                    during this particular period of time. Modeled on the example of the German research university as a
                    means of producing an elite core of scientifically trained professionals, 
                        Harvard
                    's Lawrence School was not founded until 1847, and Yale's Sheffield School was not
                    founded until 1856.
            During the early nineteenth century when newly professional geologists were being attracted to survey
                    projects, only nine of the fifty-six projects (16 percent) were federally sponsored; four of the
                    projects (7 percent) were actually private affairs; all the rest (77 percent) were state-sponsored
                    survey projects.24 Federal largess on a scale dreamed of by President Adams was
                    not to be realized until after the Civil War when expansion prompted four great western surveys
                    under the Army Corps of Engineers. The 
                        United States
                     Geological Survey with its responsibilities for "classification of the public
                    lands, 
                  
                     22 Quoted in Henry S. Commager, ed., "The Nationalism of
                            President John Quincy Adams," Documents of American History (6th
                            ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1958), 242-43.
                  
                     23 Johnson, "Geology in American Education,"
                            1192-98.
                  
                            24
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  DAVID DALE OWEN'S THIRD AND FOURTH LABORATORIES
                  
                  
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
               
                     and examination of the geological structure, mineral resources,
                    and products of the national domain" was not established until 1879.25
            
            Both the 
                        New Harmony
                     and 
                        Rensselaer
                     establishments independently developed outdoor laboratories that allowed their students
                    to gain valuable field experience. Amos Eaton pioneered a style of field camp instruction still
                    broadly imitated today. David Dale Owen, emulating Maclure's style of education in the short-lived
                    School of Industry, employed a method of on-the-job training through his extensive enlistment of
                    survey assistants. A thorough science curriculum in American education was very rare when William
                    Maclure and Amos Eaton began their educational enterprises in 1825. As economic pressures made
                    government sponsorship of geological survey work feasible, a core of professional field geologists
                    was prepared to begin professional service to a nation eager to realize and utilize the full
                    potential of its natural resources.
            
               
                  25 M. C. Rabbitt, The 
                                United States
                             Geological Survey: 1879–1989 (
                                United States
                             Geological Survey Circular 1050, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1989), 52.
            
         
         
         
            William Maclure as Publisher in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Reform Tradition
            Ian MacPhail
            Marjorie Sutton∗
            
            William Maclure came to 
                        New Harmony
                     early in 1826 because he thought that Robert Owen's community would provide fertile
                    soil for his own Pestalozzian education programs.1 He soon found that Owen's
                    educational views did not agree with his own, and he made efforts to separate his programs. The
                    essential point of difference was that Owen thought adults could be reeducated to overcome the
                    biases of their upbringing, while Maclure believed that education started necessarily with children.
                    They also disagreed about methods, but that was of secondary importance.
            Aided by his Pestalozzian teachers, Joseph and Eloisa Neef, William S. Phiquepal, and Marie Duclos
                    Fretageot, Maclure established a school at 
                        New Harmony
                    , which most of the community children attended. Nevertheless, he did not abandon adults
                    as lost and beyond hope. His radical views, nurtured by the French Revolution, maintained that the
                    common people, "the industrious producers" as he invariably called them, could be
                    empowered by reading scientific works, much as Denis Diderot thought when he published his Encyclopedia. Maclure decided to use his money to make such works available at
                    cheap prices to the working poor. To that end he bought a printing press from 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1827 soon after he came to 
                        New Harmony
                    . He took a great interest not only in advances in printing technology but also in the
                    current ways of reproducing images, engraving and lithography, and he acquired presses for both of
                    these techniques. As early as November 9, 1824, while still in 
                        Paris
                    , Maclure sent a letter to his friend Reuben Haines in 
                        Germantown
                     near 
                        Philadelphia
                    ,2 in which he wrote, "When I return home I have some
                    intention of a cheap imprinting to distil books and give the useful without the verbiage thereby
                    reducing them to 1/100 of the expense volume and 
                  
                     ∗ Ian MacPhail, who was until 1993 research fellow and
                            curator of rare books at the Sterling Morton Library of the Morton Arboretum, Lisle, 
                                Illinois
                            , now resides in 
                        Gainesville,
                                    Florida
                     . Marjorie Sutton,
                            formerly librarian at the Kingwood Center in Mansfield, 
                                Ohio
                            , lives in 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     .
                  
                     1 Maclure met Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, the Swiss education reformer
                            (1746–1827), at his school at Yverdon in 1805. He was so impressed by what he saw
                            of the work that he promoted the Pestalozzian system by subsidizing schools, teachers, and
                            publications in 
                        Paris, Spain
                     , and 
                                Philadelphia
                             as well as in 
                                New Harmony
                            .
                  
                     2 Reuben Haines (1785–1831) was a wealthy, liberal 
                                Philadelphia
                                Quaker
                             interested in education.
               
                     weight and by the improvement making in the steam engine
                    & making paper with straw it is possible to reduce the expense to 1/10 of that so that the
                    useful facts of all books may be given to the public for 1/1000 part of their present
                        prices."3
            
            An interesting piece of arithmetic! Maclure returned to this theme again and again throughout his
                    life: to print more economically than the professionals. His estimates of cheapness varied
                    considerably. This one, "1/1000 part of their present prices," was the most wildly
                    optimistic, and of course it was never achieved. His idea of "distilling books," a
                    precursor of the Readers Digest Condensed Books series perhaps, was not carried
                    out either. His plan to use straw to make paper was also not accomplished, although an attempt was
                    made in Europe; the plan was impractical because the fibers did not hold together as well as they
                    did with linen rags. In the end, although he continued to talk about it for a long time, he never
                    owned a paper mill at all.
            He was inspired by what he called the "penny press" in 
                        England
                    , a series of cheap radical journals to which he subscribed for years after he came to 
                        New Harmony
                    . In 
                        Philadelphia
                     he had owned a small printing press on which the naturalists at the Academy of Natural
                    Sciences printed some early volumes of that society's journal.
            Some of these naturalists—Thomas Say,4 Gerard Troost,5 and Charles-Alexandre Lesueur6—joined him in 
                        New Harmony
                    , where Maclure undertook to print and publish their works. The identification of the
                    new iron press that he sent upriver from 
                        New Orleans
                     remains uncertain, but from Maclure's descriptions of it in correspondence, it was
                    probably either a sort of 
                        Washington
                     press or perhaps a self-inking Albion press.7 In another letter to
                    Reuben Haines on November 24, 1826, he wrote, "Say, Lesueur and Troost are setting up a
                    press for scientific communications to be wrought, the types set and all by the boys who are
                    progressing rapidly in every art and science.8
            
            
               
                  3 William Maclure to Reuben Haines, November 9, 1824, Wyck Papers (Wyck
                        House, 
                     Germantown, Pennsylvania
                  ).
               
                  4 Thomas Say (1787–1834), the 
                            Philadelphia
                         zoologist, completed two volumes of his American Entomology
                        before he went to 
                            New Harmony
                        . He prepared the third volume there, but it was published in 
                            Philadelphia
                        .
               
                  5 Gerald Troost (1776–1850) was born and educated in the
                        Netherlands. A geologist, mineralogist, and chemist, he was the first president of the Academy
                        of Natural Sciences of 
                            Philadelphia
                        . He left 
                            New Harmony
                         in 1827 to teach at the University of 
                            Nashville
                         and served as the state geologist of 
                            Tennessee
                        .
               
                  6 Charles-Alexandre Lesueur (1778–1846), the artist and
                        naturalist, was born in 
                            France
                         and left 
                            New Harmony
                         to return there in 1837. Though his American Ichthyology was
                        never completed, he published twenty-nine pioneering papers on fish, mostly in the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences.
               
               
                  7 The authors are indebted to Jan L. Beaderstadt, The Printing Museum,
                        Calumet, 
                            Michigan
                        , for this information.
               
                  8 William Maclure to Reuben Haines, November 24, 1826, Wyck Papers.
            
            
            The "boys," of course, were the schoolboys whom Maclure wished to educate in
                    practical subjects, not in the subjects of the classical education that he had received and ever
                    afterward denounced. The press presented some difficulties at first; but once the boys discovered
                    how to work it properly, all went smoothly, and over the following years some remarkable works
                    emerged from it.
            One of the first practical uses of Maclure's printing press was the production of a local journal.
                    There was already a village newspaper, the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, printed on a Stansbury press that Robert Owen had purchased, but the
                    Gazette concerned itself with local, national, and international news and only occasionally
                    published scientific papers by the resident scientists. From the full title of his journal, the Disseminator of Useful Knowledge; Containing Hints to the Youth of the 
                            United States
                        —From the "School of Industry," it is apparent
                    that Maclure had something different in mind. At its masthead the journal bore the motto,
                    "Ignorance is the fruitful cause of Human Misery." A prefatory statement in the
                    first number, signed by Maclure, declared, "These sheets will contain observations on the
                    possibility of improving practical education, by separating the useful from the ornamental, and
                    thereby reducing the labor and fatigue of instructing youth, and we will endeavour to prove that
                    children can educate, clothe and feed themselves by their own labor when judiciously applied to
                    articles of real value." The Disseminator first appeared on January 16,
                    1828, and continued until April 8, 1841. It did not live up to its avowed purpose, but over the
                    course of the years it published several of Thomas Say's scientific papers and many essays by
                    Maclure himself after he went to Mexico. After the removal of the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette to 
                        New York
                     on January 28, 1829, under its new name, the Free Enquirer, the Disseminator took over some of the Gazette's functions of
                    national and international news and social indoctrination.
            Maclure's true services as a publisher, however, appear in the scientific monographs that he
                    published at 
                        New Harmony
                    . The first of the scientific treatises that he proposed for publication was a work on
                    American fishes, American Ichthyology, by Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, a zoologist
                    and artist. As a young man, Lesueur had accompanied a French voyage to 
                        Australia
                     under Captain Baudin.9 This voyage was a considerable success in
                    bringing back a larger number of zoological and botanical specimens than any previous voyage had
                    done. Lesueur contributed in a major way to that success, and for some time after his return to 
                        Paris
                     he was employed to work on the collections and on his own drawings and paintings, some
                    of which were included in the official report of the voyage. The advent of straitened 
                  
                     9 See Jacqueline Bonnemains, Elliott Forsyth, and Bernard Smith, eds.,
                                Baudin in Australian Waters: The Artwork of the French Voyage of Discovery
                                to the Southern Lands, 1800-1804 (Melbourne, 1988).
               
                     economic circumstances in 
                        France
                    , however, made it difficult for him to find a job.'10
            
            William Maclure met Lesueur in 
                        Paris
                    , possibly introduced by Georges Cuvier, the leading light of the Natural History
                    Museum. In 1816 Maclure invited Lesueur to join him as his artist and collector on a trip he wanted
                    to make to the 
                        United States
                     by way of 
                        England
                     and the West Indies. At the end of his two-year contract, when Maclure returned to
                    Europe, Lesueur settled in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and made a living teaching drawing and painting to young ladies while making engravings
                    for his colleagues at the Academy of Natural Sciences to accompany their papers in the Journal.
            
            Lesueur conceived the idea of doing a major work on the fishes of North America in the manner of
                    Alexander Wilson's work on birds" and Thomas Say's work on insects. When Lesueur followed
                    his patron Maclure to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1826, he had already begun this work and made some engravings for it. A prospectus
                    for the work was issued at the beginning of August 1827, composed by Maclure:
            
                    For publishing by subscription, a work on the FISH OF NORTH AMERICA, with plates, drawn and
                        colored from Nature, by C. A. Lesueur. This work will be published at 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana, in Numbers, with four colored plates in each, and the necessary
                        letterpress containing the descriptions of the species represented. Twelve numbers will
                        constitute a volume. Messrs. Tiebout12 and other artists from 
                            Philadelphia
                        , who were there occupied on the "American Entomology" are engaged
                        for this work. Books with colored plates, are generally beyond the reach of persons of limited
                        means; but it is intended, that the present work shall be adapted to the circumstances of all.
                        The price to subscribers will therefore be Forty Cents each number. The scientific and graphic
                        skill of Mr Lesueur are so well known that any recommendation is superfluous. It must however
                        appear to all persons interested in natural history very desirable to obtain faithful copies
                        from nature, with accurate descriptions for so small a sum, as the expense of colored engravings
                        are beyond the reach of all, except the wealthy. The present work would have cost six times as
                        much in 
                            France
                        , and eight times as much in 
                            England
                        .13
               
                
            
               
                  10 By the second Treaty of 
                            Paris
                         (November 20, 1815) imposed by the victorious allies, Napoleon was exiled to St.
                        Helena. 
                            France
                         was reduced to its 1790 boundaries, thereby losing 500,000 citizens, and an
                        indemnity of 700,000 francs was imposed. Moreover an occupying army of 150,000 had to be
                        supported. The French botanist Francois-André Michaux wrote to Benjamin Smith Barton,
                        the American botanist, on November 7, 1815, "Our political situation is always bad and
                        perhaps growing worse on account of our finances—we have twenty-five thousands [sic] Englishmen to keep all right." Miscellaneous Collections,
                        American Philosophical Society (
                            Philadelphia
                        ). Lesueur, always a loyal Bonapartist and a supporter of the Revolution, was not
                        alone in his unhappiness with the Restoration. Michaux had heard that 20,000 people had applied
                        for passports to leave 
                            France
                        .
               
                  11 Alexander Wilson (1766–1813) published seven volumes of the
                        American Ornithology between 1808 and his death. Volumes 8 and 9 were completed by George Ord,
                        and four additional volumes were supplied by Charles Lucien Bonaparte. All were published in 
                            Philadelphia
                        .
               
                  12 Cornelius Tiebout (1777–1832), American engraver, studied in 
                            England
                        , worked in 
                     New York, Philadelphia
                  , and, for the last seven years of his
                        life, in 
                            New Harmony
                        .
               
                  13 "Prospectus," Wyck Papers.
            
            
            Although the first two parts, which consisted of sixteen pages and nine engravings, emerged from the
                    press, Lesueur never finished it. It is not known what happened to the copies sent to subscribers.
                    Maclure said bluntly that they were "pillaged in the post" and reiterated
                    elsewhere that they were "pilfered in the post." Pillaged or pilfered, none of the
                    copies sent to subscribers has ever been found in the 
                        United States
                    . Lesueur took two copies back with him when he returned to 
                        France
                    . They are now in the Natural History Museum in Le Havre. Two copies sent by Lesueur to
                    Georges Cuvier can be found in the Natural History Museum in 
                        Paris
                    .
            Thomas Say had more luck with his 
                        New Harmony
                     work, although it too remained unfinished. It was a work on American shells, the American Conchology, announced in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Gazette on October 12, 1827: 
                        Publishing by subscription a work on the Shells of North America, with plates drawn and
                            colored from nature, by Thomas Say. This work will be published at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, under the title of American Conchology. It will be issued in numbers
                            together with the necessary letterpress for the descriptions of the species represented. The
                            object of this work is to fix the species of our Molluscous Animals, by accurate
                            delineations in their appropriate colours, so that they may be readily recognized even by
                            those who have not extensive cabinets for comparison. The price to subscribers will be One
                            Dollar for each number, with the right to withdraw their names on the publication of the
                            fourth number.
                     Six parts were printed on Maclure's press with sixty engravings, most of them from drawings
                    by Say's wife, Lucy Sistare Say. A seventh part was completed after Say's death in 1834 by Lucy Say
                    and T. A. Conrad and published in 
                        Philadelphia
                    .14 Several years ago the authors completed a census of known copies
                    of the American Conchology and found a total of only sixty-five.15 There were probably at least two hundred copies published. What happened to the others? The
                    Workingmen's Institute at 
                        New Harmony
                     holds one bound copy and portions of another. Historic 
                        New Harmony
                     Archives also hold two copies. In a bibliography of the natural history works published
                    at 
                        New Harmony
                     on the School Press, as it was called, there are eighteen items.16
                    Besides the works noted by Lesueur and Say and some other minor works by Say mainly on insects,
                    there are several by Maclure himself on geology: Essay on the Formation of Rocks or an
                        Inquiry into the Probable Origin of their Present Form and Structure published in 1832, and
                        Observations on the Geology of the West 
                            India
                        
               
                    
                  
                     14 Timothey Abbott Conrad (1803-1877) met Thomas Say when they were
                            students together at Westtown 
                                Quaker
                             School, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . Conrad became an outstanding authority on both paleontology and malacology.
                  
                     15 Ian MacPhail and Marjorie Sutton, "A Census of Copies of
                            Thomas Say's American Conchology, 
                                New Harmony
                            , 1830-1834 (
                                Philadelphia
                             1837)," Papers of the Bibliographical Society of
                            America, XCI (March, 1997), 51-64.
                  
                     16 Tan MacPhail and Marjorie Sutton, "A Bibliography of the
                            Natural History Works Printed at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, 1827-1843," Papers of the Bibliographical
                                Society of America, LXXXIX (September, 1995), 299-315.
               
                    
                    
                  TITLE PAGE OF THOMAS SAY'S
                            AMERICAN CONCHOLOGY
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
               
                    Islands from Barbadoes to Santa Cruz, Inclusive from the same year. There are two
                    pieces by David Dale Owen, the youngest son of Robert Owen, who became a distinguished geologist:
                        Catalogue of Mineralogical and Geological Specimens, at 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana Collected… by William Maclure, esq., Late President of the
                        Academy of [Natural] Sciences, 
                            Philadelphia
                        
               , 1840, and Catalogue of Geological Specimens Illustrating the
                        Formations of the Ohio Valley
               , 1843.
            The most remarkable work published on Maclure's press was by a French botanist and plant collector,
                    Francois-André Michaux, whom 
                        France
                     sent to the 
                        United States
                     at the turn of the century with his father, André, primarily to find trees
                    that could be grown in 
                        France
                    . André Michaux wrote the first flora of the new republic, and Francois wrote
                    the first major silva (a work describing the woody plants). Francois left America permanently in
                    1808 and settled in Pans where he worked on the manuscript of his great work. It is entitled the North American Sylva and was originally published in 
                        Paris
                     in French in three volumes in 1810-1813, then translated and published in its English
                    version, again in 
                        Paris
                     in 1819. William Maclure met Michaux in 
                        Paris
                     on one of his trips and wrote to his friend, Benjamin Silliman, the founder of the
                    American Geological Society, when he arrived in 
                        New York
                     in July, 1825:
            
                    I have sent to your brother here a small packet for the American Geological Society containing 2
                        volumes of Michaux's Silva Americana with 156 colored plates. It was to have been sold to an
                        English Bookseller by Mr. Michaux when I bought the whole edition  with the copperplates and brought them with me as considering it a
                        stock book that ought to remain in our country, it being so expensive as to prevent
                        republication and containing a good description of many of the forest trees that will be extinct
                        when our country is all cultivated and may then only be known by their description. It is
                        therefore a fit book for public schools, societies and public establishments amongst whom I
                        intend to distribute it.17
               
                
            Since Maclure had bought the original copperplates made from paintings by Pierre-Joseph
                    Redouté and Pancrace Bessa as he states, it meant that no further edition could be issued
                    in 
                        France
                    . It was his intention to publish a new American edition. A prospectus was issued as
                    early as 1828: proposals for publishing Michaux's Sylva Americana, (a Latin title that never
                    appeared on any title page). The text repeated what Maclure had already told Silliman but added the
                    information that it was his intention not merely to distribute the copies that he had bought from
                    Michaux but to bring out a new edition:
            
                    Being in possession of all the copper plates, capable of printing thousands of copies, it is
                        proposed to publish a new edition by subscription, in Nos of 5 plates, coloured after nature at
                        one dollar per no. It is further intended, to add a number of trees, omitted by Michaux, to make
                        the work more complete, and to begin the publication when one hundred subscribers shall be
                            obtained.18
               
                
            Maclure's gloomy prognostication of the extinction of native trees of North America was completely
                    wrong although, from his own observation of the daily cutting down of trees for agriculture and
                    construction, the situation must have looked dark indeed. The fact is that not a single American
                    species of tree described by Michaux has suffered extinction, and all are still to be found in the
                    wild except for Franklinia, which Michaux himself never saw except in gardens.
            The North American Sylva was a much more complicated and a larger and longer book
                    than the other works printed at 
                        New Harmony
                    , but it was attractive as an early candidate for printing because the text was
                    complete, and the plates were all engraved and had only to be printed off. In a letter to Maclure,
                    who had now withdrawn to Mexico (he did not care much for the climate of southwestern Indiana),
                    Marie Duclos Fretageot, his agent, described the early preparations for printing the Sylva in a letter of January 2, 1829: 
                  
                     
                        Mr. Tiebout [the engraver] is now occupied printing twelve of each plate of Michaux
                                    on our drawing paper. He has already printed 13 [plates] of each which are now
                                    coloured by our scholars. They really do it very well. This is as much for their
                                    improvement and to prepare them for the work as well as for the trying of the plates
                                    which succeeds quite well. 12 each will amount to 1872. The greatest part of them
                                    will serve for the first numbers when it will be published. As the colouring will
                                    require a great deal of time it is well to begin beforehand.19
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  17 William Maclure to Benjamin Silliman, July 14, 1825, Wyck Papers (
                            Pennsylvania
                         Historical Society, 
                            Philadelphia
                        ).
               
                  18
                        Disseminator of Useful Knowledge, June 8, 1828.
               
                  19 Marie Duclos Fretageot to William Maclure, January 2, 1829, Series IM,
                        Maclure-Fretageot Correspondence (Workingmen's Institute Library, New
            
            
            Seven months later she wrote again to Maclure, "For the printing business we will soon begin
                    with the Sylva and the Shells of Say and for that I shall be obliged to hire a printer because our
                    young people could not do the whole and also as it is of some difficulty it requires one that
                    understands the business thoroughly."20
            
            While they managed to print the Conchology without outside help, it soon became
                    clear that the Sylva exceeded their skill, and it was not until the arrival of an
                    Englishman, William Amphlett, who joined the community in 1836, that the possibility of printing it
                    became a reality. Amphlett had to find suitable paper, a good pressman to work off the copperplates,
                    and someone more skilled than the scholars to color the finished illustrations. The small size of
                    the press, which had been adequate for Say's and Lesueur's works, presented difficulties, and a new
                    chase (the frame within which the types were arranged) was required. The progress of the printing of
                    the Sylva is described in the correspondence between Amphlett and Maclure during the years 1838 and
                    1839. On March 9, 1839, Amphlett wrote to Maclure:
                  
                     
                        The letterpress, the paper and the engravings you would wish to have as good as the
                                    past edition, and I shall take great pride in having the text as uniformly perfect
                                    as possible. It would be most vexatious indeed to have this (which may probably be
                                    the last printed bequest you may leave the world) in any way lacking that care and
                                    perfection which the fame of the author, and the intrinsic value of the work
                                    demands, particularly as it will find its way no doubt into every public library in
                                    every civilized country and therefore I should be doubly anxious for it to be seen
                                    what can be done at your 
                                        New Harmony
                                     press, and that works of science may issue even from the back woods of
                                    the far West.21
                        
                     
                  
                To produce an edition as good as the previous 
                        Paris
                     edition was far beyond the means of Maclure's little frontier press, but the wonder is
                    not that it failed to compare with the 
                        Paris
                     edition but that it was completed at all. Amphlett's pride in his work succeeded in
                    bringing off a tour ale force against great odds.
            The last letter in the correspondence is dated September 26, 1839, and with it Amphlett sent the
                    first printed sheet of the Sylva for Maclure's approval. Maclure had been quite
                    ill in 1839, but despite his illness he determined to make a visit to the 
                        United States
                     and specifically to 
                        New Harmony
                     at the beginning of 1840. He actually began the journey but died in Mexico enroute in
                    March of that year. Maclure's brother, Alexander, who still lived in 
                        New Harmony
                    , was the executor of Maclure's estate, and it was with him that Amphlett 
                  Harmony, Indiana). Since this paper was given, the Maclure-Fretageot Correspondence has
                            been edited by Josephine Mirabella Elliott and published as Partnership for
                                Posterity: The Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                            1820-1833 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1994).
                  
                     20 Fretageot to Maclure, January 2, 1829, Maclure-Fretageot
                            Correspondence.
                  
                     21 William Amphlett to William Maclure, March 9, 1839, Series I, 
                                New Harmony
                             Correspondence (Workingmen's Institute Library).
               
                    
                    
                  TITLE PAGE OF AESOP'S
                            FABLES
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
                then dealt. Since Alexander was there and the press was in his house, there were no
                    further written records detailing the progress of the printing.
            The work proceeded slowly, and the first of the two volumes was completed in 1841 and the second in
                    1842, according to the existing title page dates. Some copies were sent to Judah Dobson, the 
                        Philadelphia
                     bookseller. The title page of the 
                        New Harmony
                     edition announces a supplement to the work with additions of western trees by Thomas
                    Nuttall, the English plant explorer, but in fact none of Nuttall's work appears in the 
                        New Harmony
                     edition. The unbound sheets, enough for 381 copies, were stored in Alexander Maclure's
                    house in 
                        New Harmony
                     and there on the night of January 21, 1844, they were destroyed by fire. As a result,
                    the 
                        New Harmony
                     edition of Michaux's Sylva is a very rare work indeed, and only a few
                    copies survive in American libraries. There are copies at the American Philosophical 
                    
                  PAGE FROM AESOP'S
                            FABLES
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
               
                     Society, 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; the Gray Herbarium in 
                  Cambridge,
                            Massachusetts
               ; the 
                        Missouri
                     Botanical Garden, 
                        St. Louis
                    ; the Lilly Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana; and the 
                        New York
                     Botanical Garden. Three copies are known to be in private hands. Thus a total of eight.
                    No copies have ever been found abroad.
            Maclure bequeathed many of his books and collections to the Academy of Natural Sciences in 
                        Philadelphia
                     where he had been president for life. Among these collections, it can be surmised, were
                    the copperplates of the Sylva. Even before the 
                        New Harmony
                     edition had come out, there was talk of transferring the copperplates to 
                        Philadelphia
                     for an edition to be printed there. The authors have seen no correspondence that bears
                    on the eventual acquisition of the plates by the academy, but they must have rested in the academy
                    for a few years at least. Then they were lent or perhaps sold to a 
                        Philadelphia
                     publisher, Robert P. Smith, so that he could bring out a new edition, which he did in
                    1850-1851. That edition was reissued six times in the course of which a new publisher, A. N. Hart,
                    took over. Then, with a colleague, D. Rice, Hart brought out a third American edition in 1857, which
                    was reissued three times, once under the imprint of Rice and Hart, once under Rice, Rutter and Co.,
                    and finally under William Rutter & Co., in 1871, the last printing of this great work. None
                    of these several editions and issues could have been printed if Maclure had not brought the original
                    copperplates to America. What happened to the copperplates? Were they melted down for reuse as so
                    often happened, or are they resting still in some publisher's or printer's stockroom or perhaps on
                    some library's shelves, gathering dust, unrecognized for what they are?
            Not all the work of Maclure's press is about natural history of course. Maclure offered other
                    subjects as well. For example, he produced an edition of Aesop's Fables in 1832,
                    of which the only known copy is in the Workingmen's Institute Library at 
                        New Harmony
                    ; Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    's The Chronicles of the Kings of 
                            England
                        , from the Reign of William the Conqueror, First King of 
                            England
                        , Down to His Present Majesty George the Third; and 
                        Franklin
                    's Way to Wealth, all in the same year. Alexander Maclure proposed an
                    English translation of the Code Napoléon but found it had already been
                    printed elsewhere. A major undertaking was Maclure's own Opinions on Various Subjects
                        Dedicated to the Industrious Producers collected in three volumes from 1831 to 1838. This
                    work is an explicit statement of his radical social philosophy, a philosophy underlying his view
                    that knowledge is power. It was to help achieve this power that he set up his school, but when his
                    program eventually failed, he continued to provide the means of education through his printing
                    press. Ironically, not many of the works he published ended up in the hands of the
                    "industrious producers," but he certainly made a major contribution to natural
                    history in North America.
         
         
         
            William Maclure: Patron Saint of Indiana Libraries
            Josephine Mirabella Elliott∗
            
            According to the terms of his final will drawn up on January 29, 1839, William Maclure bequeathed the
                    bulk of his estate to the establishment of workingmen's libraries. Because of a lengthy lawsuit,
                    distribution of the money remained incomplete until 1857. What transpired during the seventeen years
                    following Maclure's death on March 23, 1840, is the subject of this discussion.
            In examining the acts that instigated the lawsuit, investigators find it clear that the persons who
                    precipitated these events were members of Maclure's family, people whom he disliked and mistrusted
                    with good reason.1 In a letter to Reuben Haines, Maclure stated that originally
                    his family had consisted of twelve children, six of whom reached adulthood. He said, "I am
                    the only one who has been able to do anything for themselves, so I have the care of a family without
                    the pleasure of getting them."2 Maclure's understanding of his family's
                    dependency caused him to place his 
                        New Harmony
                     finances and holdings in the hands of a representative and agent, Marie Duclos
                    Fretageot.
            Alexander (1765?—1850?) acquired his naturalization certificate in September, 1797, after
                    living in the 
                        United States
                     for two years, first in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and then in Norfolk, 
                        Virginia
                    .3 He appears to have conducted businesses poorly in both places,
                    causing William 
                  
                     ∗ Josephine Mirabella Elliott is former librarian of the 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute and archivist emerita of the University of Southern
                            Indiana, 
                                Evansville
                            .
                  
                     1 Information presented in this paper on the Maclure family was
                            gathered from various sources that are neither numerous nor extensive. Most useful is the
                            Maclure-Fretageot Correspondence in the 
                                New Harmony
                             Correspondence, Series IM, 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana. This correspondence also appears in Josephine Mirabella Elliott, ed.,
                                Partnership for Posterity: The Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie
                                Duclos Fretageot, 1821—1833 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1994). This source contains accounts of the family's activities: William's
                            relationship with his siblings and Marie Duclos Fretageot's association with them from 1828
                            to 1831. Maclure's prolific correspondence with his friends and associates, as well as his
                            writings, offers information, as does the 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute Local History File.
                  
                     2 William Maclure to Reuben Haines. February, 9. 1831.II-19-254, Wyck
                            Papers (
                                Pennsylvania
                             Historical Society, 
                                Philadelphia
                            ).
                  
                     3 Alexander Maclure Naturalization Certificate, Series W.M., Maclure
                            Family Papers (
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana).
               
                     financial losses. To Fretageot and other friends William
                    complained about Alexander, speaking of him as obstinate, prejudiced, and vain, and as an individual
                    who considered himself far superior to William and his associates.4
            
            Once William arrived in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1826, both Alexander and John joined him soon after. In 1828, following the
                    financial losses incurred by his participation in Robert Owen's communitarian experiment, Maclure
                    bade his two sisters who lived handsomely in 
                        Scotland
                     to come to 
                        New Harmony
                     in order to decrease expenses.
            After William died in Mexico, Alexander lived comfortably, enjoying the company of like-minded
                    persons and disregarding the provisions of Maclure's will. He made several trips to the East,
                    particularly 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where the Academy of Natural Sciences made him a member.
            Like Alexander, Anna (1766-1844) disliked Maclure's philanthropic deeds, his 
                        New Harmony
                     activities, and especially his agent. To Anna and Alexander, Fretageot represented
                    their brother's unorthodox views and actions and the offense of his placing authority over his
                    financial affairs in the care of anyone but themselves. Anna and her friends acted against Fretageot
                    in devious ways, even conniving with the postmaster to mishandle her mail. Anna's financial
                    dependence on William did not prevent her from being very liberal to her own charities both at home
                    and abroad, thus creating a following among the religious inhabitants of 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            Margaret (1768–18391, who was younger than Anna and less emotionally and mentally stable,
                    did not get along well with her own family, and she intermittently found other people with whom to
                    board in 
                        New Harmony
                    , where she lived more tranquilly than she did under her sister's control.
            John (1771?-1834?), according to an account written by Alexander, also had a history of mental
                    instability caused by his imprisonment by the French during Robespierre's Reign of Terror. On his
                    arrival in the 
                        United States
                     he lived in and around 
                        Philadelphia
                    , but his behavior caused his elder brother much concern. He grew worse in 
                        New Harmony
                    , and when he became unmanageable, he was sent to an asylum in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , where he died some time in 1834.5
            
            Thus life in the Maclure household was far from tranquil, with or without William's presence.
                    Alexander and William were unfriendly and cool; Anna and Margaret fought over Anna's insistence on
                    assuming the superior role; John's unsoundness of mind created turmoil. Since the four siblings were
                    subject to their brother's generosity, 
                  
                     4 Elliott, Partnership for Posterity, 486, 671, 695.
                  
                     5 Alexander Maclure to Dr. Charles Short, 
                                New Harmony
                            , October 8, 1834, MSS A.S559, 89, Charles Short Papers (Filson Club,
                                    
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     ).
               
                     however, they could ill afford to display their disregard and
                    hostility too openly.
            Obviously Maclure realized that he could not rely on his brothers and sisters to understand his
                    motives or have confidence that their presumed interest would make his ideas a reality. Therefore,
                    so long as Fretageot acted as his agent in 
                        New Harmony
                    , she was a buffer between him and his family. Her 1831 departure and her death in
                    August, 1833, followed the next year by Thomas Say's demise, put Maclure at the mercy of his
                    relatives. Maclure's resulting alienation took its form in the terms of his will.
            Actually, Maclure made many wills at various times in his much-traveled life. They set forth his
                    philosophical interests and named those in whom he placed his trust. They expressed his thoughts and
                    desires, his self-acknowledged failures, and his continuing strong philanthropic sentiments toward
                    his fellowmen.
            Maclure's last will evolved through three stages. It was first written January 29, 1839. The
                    following September 23 he added a codicil; two months before his death (January 24, 1840) a second
                    codicil that introduced a sweeping change of administrators was inserted. This will brought on the
                    lawsuit that had to be waged and won before William Maclure's wishes for the workingmen's libraries
                    could be fulfilled.6
            
            A brief examination of the wills reveals at once Maclure's final intentions. The main bequest to his
                    family from the first writing was "the use and revenue of all my property real and personal
                    in and about 
                        New Harmony
                    , in the County of Posey and State of Indiana during their Life times… after
                    the decease of any one of them, or of the whole… the share that each shall leave in said
                    property, to be applied for the Diffusion of useful knowledge…."7 They were each granted annunities of $600 annually.
            In the first codicil (September 23, 1839) Maclure appointed Alexander and Anna as executors and
                    described specifically how the institutes for the diffusion of knowledge were to be organized: any
                    institute, club, or society of laborers who worked with their hands and that established anywhere in
                    the 
                        United States
                     a reading and lecture room with a library of at least 100 volumes was to be assisted by
                    a gift of $500.
            By January, 1840, Maclure had radically changed his mind and added a second codicil. In a final act
                    of disillusionment he dismissed all three of his trustees saying, "but on reconsidering the
                    melancholy state of morality which prevents dead men's wills from being fulfilled 
                  
                     6 William Maclure, Wills and Related Papers, Series IV.M. Maclure
                            Family Papers (
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute). All discussions and quotations that follow are
                            referenced from this source.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Posey County
                             Will Book A and B, 1816–1852, p. 20, 
                                Posey County
                             Courthouse, Mt. Vernon, Indiana.
               
                     or executed when they give any property for the use and benefit
                    of the poor and working classes—but on the contrary the monied aristocracy find means to
                    purloin the said property for the use, support, and maintenance of their privileged
                    classes—for the above reasons and many more that might be advanced—I do hereby
                    abrogate, revoke, and annull said Trust—and dyscharge the said George W. Erving, John
                    Wilbanks and John Speakman…. "8 One of the "many
                    more" reasons for Maclure's statement may have been the inability of the Academy of Natural
                    Sciences of 
                        Philadelphia
                     and Maclure to agree on the terms of his proposed bequest.
            During the mid-and late 1830s Maclure had planned an educational trust under which the academy would
                    receive and administer his estate, the chief stipulation being that all books and collections would
                    be open to the general public. Despite Maclure's generous donations, which were given regularly, the
                    academy authorities chose to institute high entrance fees and annual dues. So Maclure rescinded his
                        bequest.9
            
            For some general idea of Maclure's exact worth one has to examine his 1827 will for an itemized
                    account of his assets, which listed property and investments from the 
                  United States, England, France
               , and 
                        Spain
                    .10 Maclure owned half of the town of 
                        New Harmony
                     and its environs as well as farmlands in 
                        Illinois
                    ; a coal mine in 
                        Pike county
                    , Indiana; a plantation at Big Lick in 
                        Virginia
                    ; investments in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; property in 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                    ; a house and farm at Alicante, 
                        Spain
                    , four large estates covering thousands of acres; and a million
                    "reals" in Spanish securities. He possessed an extensive library that contained
                    some of the most beautiful books ever printed, a vast assortment of minerals from all over Europe
                    and the 
                        United States
                    , and a large assemblage of prints and copperplates.
            Because of the complex nature of Maclure's estate (and the vicissitudes it underwent in 
                        Spain
                    ), no attempt has been made to establish the extent of his wealth. Considering only the
                    real and personal property at 
                        New Harmony
                     and environs and in the surrounding counties of Posey, 
                        Pike
                    , and White (
                        Illinois
                    ), the listings in this will would render a figure of $44,662 for the real
                    property, plus $30,000 for the library, and about $36,638 for the personal
                    property. This is the wealth from which money for the libraries would have to come.
            Following Fretageot's death in August, 1833, Maclure seemed to turn against the town where so much of
                    his effort and money had been dissipated. But by early spring of 1838 his interest revived. Despite
                    financial failures, disappointments, and personal losses, his optimistic temperament led him to try
                    again.
            
               
                  8
                        Ibid., 28-29.
               
                  9 J. Percy Moore, "William Maclure—Scientist and
                        Humanitarian," Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XCI
                        (August, 1947), 234-49.
               
                  10 William Maclure, Will 1827, Box 1, Fretageot Collection (
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute).
            
            
            In an April 20, 1838, letter Maclure explained to his sister Anna the reasons for the failure of the 
                        New Harmony
                     schools. He told her that his only salvation for retrieving anything valuable from his
                    investments was to endow workingmen's institutes for the diffusion of knowledge, and specifically to
                    endow the 
                        New Harmony
                     organization.1 There had already been a period of exchange of
                    correspondence between Maclure and the members of the Workingmen's Institute that had culminated in
                    its formal incorporation on April 2, 1838, as the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute for Mutual Instruction.12 A few months later
                    he offered the group the use of his library and of one of his houses "as near the center of
                    town as may be…."13
            
            In December the men replied that they were presently meeting in a room at the west end of the Hall
                    (the former Harmonist brick church that Maclure owned) with his permission, but they found it small,
                    inconvenient, and unsuited for a permanent home. By the following summer, however, they informed
                    Maclure that the organization was occupying a room above the stairs in the opposite or east wing of
                    the Hall. They quoted a passage from one of his earlier letters back to him, "I am
                    determined before I die to form as many of these clubs or institutes and endow them with the
                    necessary property that may enable them to go on and increase in utility."14 Unfortunately, by then the letters were either crossing, not arriving in Mexico, or not
                    being answered because Maclure's health deteriorated.
            Maclure's untimely death in 1840 left the institute's members without a guarantee of their own
                    quarters. They addressed Alexander Maclure as his brother's executor for permission to continue
                    using the east wing of the Hall and to be granted a lease or deed. Since Anna also was an executor,
                    the men likewise approached her. She wanted them to allow church services to be held in their
                    quarters. The minutes of November 14, 1841, record their terse reply, "Use of the lecture
                    room for preaching was refused."15
            
            A discussion of land ownership and disposition, particularly as it refers to three portions of
                    William's 
                        New Harmony
                     estate, serves as a telling example of the Maclures' stewardship. These properties were
                    the Harmonist brick church or Hall, the German Grave Yard, and the Rope Walk.
            As executors (not administrators), Alexander and Anna were not allowed to sell or dispose of any part
                    of William's estate. The 
                  
                     11 William Maclure to Anna Maclure, Mexico, April 20, 1838, Series I, 
                                New Harmony
                             Correspondence (
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute).
                  
                     12 Thomas James De la Hunt, ed., History of the 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Workingmen's Institute, 
                                    New Harmony
                                , Indiana (
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., 1927), 1-7.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 12.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 20, 30, 32.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 43.
               
                    
                    
                  REGULATIONS OF THE MACLURE WORKINGMEN'S INSTITUTE, CRAWFORDSVILLE, INDIANA
                  
                  Reproduced from Ronald E. Banta, "Indiana's First Libraries," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 16, 1958.
                brother and sister were well provided for during their lifetimes but could not resist
                    attempting to acquire more. They consulted lawyers who cooperated in getting a judgment, claiming
                    that since there were no libraries yet in existence the money intended for them could not be
                    claimed.
            Both Maclures began leading a more opulent life. Accompanied by friends, Alexander made several trips
                    to the east, where he enjoyed a social success and was made a member of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of Natural Sciences. Anna continued to send charitable contributions to friends
                    in 
                        Scotland
                     and, relieved of Margaret's difficult presence in 1839, passed the last few years of
                    her life pleasantly.
            Determined to have a church in 
                        New Harmony
                    , the two Maclures offered the Harmonist Grave Yard to St. Stephen's Episcopal Church in
                    April, 1842, as a church cemetery and possible church site. Since this site held deceased members of
                    the millennialist, communitarian Harmonists who settled the town in 1814 and held claim on the
                    property until 1845, the offer depended on the agreement of George Rapp and the Harmony Society.
            
            When the Harmonists refused to relinquish their claim, Anna and Alexander persisted.16 By June, 1843, a deed was drawn by which the Maclures conveyed to St. Stephen's Vestry for
                    one dollar all the land and the Hall itself up to the wall dividing off the eastern wing (occupied
                    by the Workingmen's Institute according to William's orders), the Harmonist (German) Grave Yard, and
                    the strip of land used as the Rope Walk. This property was to serve as a church or school despite
                    the well-known fact that neither Owen nor Maclure would allow a church to be established in the
                        town.17
            
            By this one action, to be repeated many times over, Alexander and Anna Maclure broke their brother's
                    will by selling the property. They disregarded the Harmony Society's claim to their graveyard, a
                    claim still valid for another two years. Their actions substantiated posthumously Maclure's distrust
                    of his own family.
            Misuse of these properties continued, and three years later an offer of $600 by the
                    Harmony Society in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to purchase the Grave Yard "donated to the parish by Mr. Alexander
                    Maclure" was accepted by St. Stephen's. The Harmonists had to buy the land a second time.
            By April, 1850, after Alexander's death, St. Stephen's Vestry determined to sell their portion of the
                    Hall, probably because the parish had just built a new church and needed the money. Various
                    proposals were made, and in a few months they accepted a $1,000 offer. Many problems,
                    however, held up the conclusion of business including the 
                        California
                     gold rush, but it was finalized five years later in January, 1855.18
            
            In April, 1855, Alvin J. Hovey sued the three owners for either the return or repurchase of the
                        property.19 For a few years following William's death in 1840, his brother
                    and sister reported on the estate to the proper authorities. For example, on August 10, 1844, the
                    income was reported as $88,725.37 and the outgo $26,354.76. The latter figure
                    displays a scandalous misuse of funds. By 1848 the state authorities realized they were receiving no
                    inventories or reports, nor indeed any information regarding the settlement of the estate. The
                    sheriff was ordered on several occasions to bring Alexander in for explanations. Investigation of
                    his squandering of the estate led to the appointment of an administrator, Alvin P. Hovey, at the
                    March, 1849, term of the 
                        Posey County
                     Circuit Court.20
            
            
               
                  16 St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, Minutes of the Vestry, 1841-1939, pp.
                        3, 4, 
                            New Harmony
                        .
               
                  17
                        Ibid., 5; Deed Records L, June 1, 1843, pp. 534-36, 
                            Posey County
                         Courthouse, Mt. Vernon, Indiana.
               
                  18 St. Stephen's Vestry Minutes, 20, 23, 50; Deed Records L, January 24,
                        1855, pp. 191-92, 
                            Posey County
                         Courthouse.
               
                  19 Circuit Court Civil Order Book, 1840-1859, pp. 248-49, microfilm, 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., 17, 72-73.
            
            
            The Maclure lawsuit and the establishment of workingmen's libraries that followed are abundantly
                    documented in the Civil Order Book of the 
                        Posey County
                     Circuit Court, 1840–1859. All phases of the lawsuit are described: the
                    actions of the two Maclures, court judgments, inventory of personal effects, petitions for removal
                    to another venue (since sitting judge John Pitcher was not a disinterested presider),21 the hiring of appraisers, lists of land and town lots "sold or given
                    away," resale of these properties by Hovey, lists of property sold and prices received.
                    Several pages mainly concern the libraries established: their constitutions, membership lists with
                    occupations, and titles of books they possessed.
            Alvin P. Hovey (1821–1891) of Mt. Vernon, Indiana, was the man who
                    undertook to restore the Maclure will and saved Maclure's munificent bequest for its intended
                    recipients. Hovey had begun the study of law in the office of Judge John Pitcher and by age
                    twenty-two was admitted to the bar. He served as a delegate to the Indiana Constitutional Convention
                    (1850), judge of the circuit court (1851–1854), judge of the state supreme court the
                    following year, and 
                        United States
                     district attorney (1856–1860). He fought in the Civil War with distinction
                    and attained the rank of major general. Following the war he served five years as 
                        United States
                     minister to Peru (1865–1870). He was elected to Congress in 1886 and
                    governor of Indiana in 1888. After serving three years, he died in office.
            Hovey's interest in the matter of Maclure's will began when he was a student in Judge Pitcher's
                    office. Anna and Alexander, though cared for generously in their brother's will, wanted more. They
                    had sought legal opinion regarding the provisions for libraries from judges John Pitcher of
                        Mt. Vernon, Horace Binney of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and Samuel Judah of 
                        Vincennes
                    , all of whom assured them that the bequest was invalid because the libraries for which
                    it was created were not yet in existence. In studying the will and the opinions Hovey became
                    convinced that the bequest to the workingmen's institutes was valid, and that Maclure's relatives,
                    who were blithely consuming the substance of the estate, had no legal right to do so.
            Finally, the situation became so egregious that the court intervened and appointed Hovey as
                    administrator in 1849. Alexander Maclure died some months later, and James Sampson, who had been his
                    agent and administrator of his estate, was handed a defeat by 
                  
                     21 John Pitcher (c. 1794–1892), lawyer and judge, was born
                            in 
                        Watertown, Connecticut
                     , and studied law in Litchfield. He set up his law
                            practice in 
                                Rockport
                            , Indiana, in 1816 and moved to Mt. Vernon by 1825 or 1830.
                            Pitcher served as circuit court judge for Posey, Gibson, and 
                                Vanderburgh
                             counties and was judge of the 
                                Posey County
                             Common Pleas Court from 1852 to 1866. According to tradition, he lent law books
                            to Abraham Lincoln, who was living at 
                                Rockport
                             during Pitcher's residency. This friendship is described by Rev. John E. Cox in
                            the Mt. Vernon
                            Democrat, August 5, 1892, clipping in Local History
                            File—Pitcher (Alexandrian Public Library, Mt. Vernon,
                            Indiana).
               
                     the Indiana supreme court, which declared all sales of property
                    made by Alexander null and void.
            Hovey proceeded to carry Maclure's will into effect, the first order of business being repossession
                    of the land sold by the self-appointed heirs. By instituting over sixty lawsuits Hovey managed to
                    recover the properties for resale. It must be admitted that having to buy one's property twice
                    caused considerable hardship to some persons who had originally dealt with Alexander in good
                        faith.22 The court records, however, included new, lower appraisals that
                    took into account the improvements made by the former owners.23 As nearly as can
                    be judged, Hovey realized $75,619.99 from the sales of the land, an amount from which he
                    could begin allotting the gifts of money to aspiring libraries.24
            
            The Maclure case provided Hovey with a good start on his financial career. By winning the supreme
                    court appeal, he gained a statewide reputation and was launched on his political career.25 Quoted in a 1949 clipping, Indiana Justice Frank E. Gilkinson, speaking in
                        Mt. Vernon at a salute to Hovey, stated that from this lawsuit came
                    "an opinion and judgment that have become the foundation of such bequests."26
            
            As Hovey accumulated cash from the sale of the Maclure estate, library petitions began appearing. By
                    the time the money was distributed, 144 libraries in Indiana (eighty-nine of the ninety-two counties
                    applied) and 16 in 
                        Illinois
                     were organized. They received their $500 and began operation.27
            
            
               
                  22 Among the many people so vexed were two Owen family members. From 
                            Germany
                         Jane Owen Fauntleroy wrote to her brother back home of her irritation with the
                        matter, which she considered trivial. Her agent, Horatio Cooper, reported that she had no need
                        to trouble herself since the title had come directly from William himself. See the Caroline D.
                        B. Allen Papers (
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute). David Dale Owen's concerns involved the possible added
                        expenses for the granary that he had acquired from Anna Maclure. The considerable money he had
                        spent repairing the structure saved him from paying a large sum for remuneration. Compensation
                        amounted to $3,592.50 for the granary, the Maclure House his family occupied, and the
                        land they were on. See Walter B. Hendrickson, David Dale Owen: Pioneer Geologist of
                            the Middle West (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXVII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 19431, 123.
               
                  23
                        
                            Posey County
                         Circuit Court Civil Order Book, pp. 104-107, 110, 113-16, 123-26, 133-35.
               
                  24
                        Ibid., 159.
               
                  25 Elfrieda Lang, "Documentary Autobiography of Alvin P. Hovey's
                        Early Life," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVIII (March, 1952),
                        72-84; Wilbur D. Peat, Portrait Painters of the Governors of Indiana,
                            1800–1978 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1978), 54; Local History File (Alexandrian Public Library); Mt. Vernon
                        Democrat, June 14–November 14, 1888, microfilm L-208; Mt.
                            Vernon
                        Western Star, October and November, 1888, microfilm; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, October 4, 1888.
               
                  26 Untitled paper in Local History File—Hovey, May 18, 1949
                        (Alexandrian Public Library).
               
                  27 Two excellent sources of information on the Maclure libraries are the
                        Civil Order Book (see footnote 19) and Frances H. McBride, "Maclure Libraries in
                        Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                        ," a paper written as requirement for Library Science 594, July, 1967, at
                    
            
            
            It has been incorrectly stated, by persons usually quoting each other, that the books purchased with
                    the Maclure funds were largely works of a scientific or technical nature having little interest for
                    the class—workingmen—for whom the donor had intended them. Quite the contrary.
                    Even a brief reading of the above-mentioned sources proves the opposite: there were novels,
                    biographies and history, travel, science, government documents, agriculture. Here are a few
                    examples: 
                        Washington
                     Irving and Sir Walter Scott novels, William H. Prescott's Conquest of
                        Mexico, Thomas Babbington Macauley's and Edward Gibbons's histories, William Shakespeare's
                    works, cyclopedias, Rural Architecture, The Hog: Breeds, Management,
                        Feeding….
            
            Some groups did organize with the desire of acquiring the $500 gift but lacked all
                    requisites for a functioning library: no trained librarian and no quarters for the books. Many
                    societies used the homes of members or their places of business, as did the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute and the 
                        New Harmony
                     Maclurian Institute, and the members served as librarians. Current works and popular
                    classics were "read to pieces," according to contemporary accounts. Scientific or
                    technical works were reserved for reference.
            The Civil War was crucial to the survival of these libraries. The men went to war and the women to
                    nursing. Reading interests focused on matters concerning the war. Many libraries at this time were
                    no longer viable even though the books themselves did not vanish.
            In 1876 the 
                        United States
                     Bureau of Education published a report entitled Public Libraries in the 
                            United States
                        . Only eighteen of the original libraries went on record as still surviving.
                    These reported combined holdings of 11,845 volumes and a circulation of 9,810 books.28
            
            At century's end only the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute continued to exist. By then few people remembered or had even
                    heard of libraries for laborers. Nevertheless, the very fact of their former existence played a
                    significant role in developing the mental faculties and increasing the knowledge of Indiana's and 
                        Illinois
                    's population. The books of these pioneer libraries were not all lost: they formed the
                    basis of the future school, society, public, and township libraries. These latter libraries were
                    proposed and introduced by Robert Dale Owen in an 1854 measure, thereby continuing to implant and
                    cultivate the idea of a free public library system in Indiana.29 Ultimately, the
                    books that constituted the holdings of the Maclure libraries 
                  Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . McBride sent 130 inquiries with only 8 failing to be returned, and the
                            resulting compiled material includes founding dates, constitutions and by-laws, rules for
                            use, identities of users, and titles still in existence as of 1967. Full permission has been
                            given the writer to use this material.
                  
                     28 See Appendix IV.
                  
                     29 McBride, "Maclure Libraries in Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            ," 19-20.
               
                     were disposed of in one of several ways. They were divided up
                    among the membership; they became part of a local school library; they were merged with books from a
                    reading association; they were combined with a township library; or they were incorporated into a
                    slowly evolving public library.30
            
            The flavor of the Maclure libraries is best experienced by reading accounts narrated by
                    contemporaries or persons who enjoyed reading from the book collections when those collections were
                    in the latter stages of their existence. Among the descriptions is one that depicts the Maclurian
                    Institute or Association in 
                        New Harmony
                    , organized in 1856, a companion to the older Workingmen's Institute. It was written in
                    a joint journal kept by Alexander and his younger brother Achilles Henry, grandsons of Marie Duclos
                    Fretageot.
            Achilles Henry described working with the books and his duties as a member:
            
                    10 July 1862—This evening we had a meeting of the Maclurian Institute, I am the
                        Secy—We concluded to expend from $40, to $60 for Books. Mr. Cox
                        [E. T.] Nelson Felch and myself were appointed to Select the Books—I feel flattered
                        at being put on such a come [committee].
                    1 Feb 1863—Pa and I have been at the store almost all day, Reading and studying I got
                        the whole place full of books and shapes, etc. we are quite a library people in this town four
                        libraries etc.31
               
                
            The tale of the "McClure" Institute of Carmi, 
                        Illinois
                     is probably typical of the rise and demise of these institutions.
            
                    The terms of the will were such that the executors of the estate allowed that the bequest was
                        available in 
                            Illinois
                        . Accordingly, a few philanthropic citizens of Carmi fulfilled the required
                        conditions, drew the money and in 1860 founded the "MaClure Institute." A
                        society was organized with the usual constitution and officers, books purchased, and a
                        circulating library established. This library was kept in stores and other places until 1880,
                        when it was placed in charge of the Southern 
                            Illinois
                         Normal School, in a business block adjoining Stewart's. Jan 2, 1881, this block was
                        burned down, and every volume, including the records of the institute, was consumed, since which
                        time nothing has been done to revive the noble enterprise.32
               
                
            An unsigned 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Times clipping of January 17, 1913, gives an appealing picture of the attractions
                    offered children of another time in the libraries.
            
                    The libraries were given at a time when books were scarce and high priced and much of the reading
                        of the early days was obtained from the William Maclure libraries. One of these libraries
                        furnished the writer his sole store of reading almost thirty-five years ago in the little inland
                        town where he was raised and until we reached our fourteenth year our mind feasted on the
                        conquests of Alexander and Xerxes and the misfortunes of Darius. Spark's biographies filled
                        several shelves and there were a few works of 
                     
                        30 See Appendix V.
                     
                        31 Joint Journal, September 13, 1860–April 3, 1863, pp.
                                160, 202-203, 266, Fretageot Collection.
                     
                        32
                                History of White County, 
                                        Illinois
                                    
                         (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1883), 562-63.
                  
                        
                        
                     VOLUME IN THE MACLURE WORKINGMEN'S INSTITUTE, GREENFIELD, INDIANA
                     
                     Courtesy of the 
                                    Greenfield
                                 Public Library, 
                                    Greenfield
                                , Indiana.
                   fiction. The Swiss Family Robinson claimed our attention at least six times and when
                        nothing else appealed, the life of Alexander the Great was worth re-reading. The library was
                        presided over by an old English shoe maker named Knibs and as long as he lived it was carefully
                        tended. Later it fell into uninterested hands and has no doubt long since disappeared from
                            view.33
               
                
            Also, Julia Henderson Levering presents a narrative of her father, brother, and herself happily
                    perusing the classic juveniles in a dusty, neglected book collection, and tells what their
                    availability had meant to the earlier generations.
            
                    Memories of a dusty, musty attic, festooned with cobwebs and located over the dingy shop and
                        office of the township trustee, caused a grateful sentiment in the heart of the writer toward
                        that Maclure benefaction to Indiana. With her brother, in earliest childhood, the children,
                        guided by a student father, found the forgotten heaps of books, and read with eager interest the
                        classic juveniles and standard works included in that 
                     
                        33
                                
                                    New Harmony
                                
                                Times, January 17, 1913.
                  
                         old collection. Nibbled by mice, mutilated by careless
                        hands, many of the volumes lost, and more of them unreturned by previous readers, the old
                        library was but a tattered ghost of William Maclure's intention; but, with other collections
                        established by that bequest, it had been a means of inspiration and culture to many men and
                        women in the frontier communities, who thirsted for knowledge.34
               
                
            An inevitable comparison between William Maclure and Andrew Carnegie comes to mind. Carnegie
                    (1835–1919), also a Scotsman, was born seventy-two years after Maclure. The world,
                    particularly the 
                        United States
                    , differed drastically between 1783, when Maclure first visited the 
                        United States
                    , and 1848, when Carnegie's family arrived. Maclure's America was that of Jefferson and
                    the founding fathers, a land undergoing all the stresses and strains of a new nation seeking its
                    identity in a relatively "New World." Carnegie's America was well on its way, an
                    immigrant mecca experiencing rampant westward expansion, a nation propelled by "Manifest
                    Destiny" and an Industrial Revolution in full bloom.
            Both men were businessmen and philanthropists; each was wealthy, though not in the same proportion.
                    Maclure made his money in merchandising, farmlands, and town properties in the 
                        United States
                     and abroad; Carnegie accumulated his wealth from railroads, telegraph companies, oil
                    lands, bridge building, and steel. Carnegie gave to construct schools, churches, and cultural
                    institutions; Maclure gave to sponsor education and social reform. Both men, however, thought
                    libraries were ideal vehicles for helping their fellowmen. Carnegie provided funds for library
                    buildings in his lifetime; Maclure provided for library books in his will. Each gave money to those
                    who would match the gifts with their own planning and generosity.
            One of Carnegie's goals in life was to avoid the sin of dying a millionaire. Maclure's main concerns
                    were for the men who worked with their hands—women, orphans, and slaves. Carnegie, the
                    less altruistic, is yet admired today. Maclure, except for the scientific world, is scarcely known.
            
               
                  34 Julia Henderson Levering, Historic
                        Indiana… (
                            New York
                        , 1910), 262.
            
            
            
                    APPENDIX I
                
            
               
                        MACLURE LIBRARIES IN INDIANA
                    
               
                  
                            County
                        
                  
                            Community
                        
               
               
                  ADAMS
                  Decatur
               
               
                  ALLEN
                  Fort Wayne
               
               
                  BARTHOLOMEW
                  Columbus
               
               
                  BENTON
                  Oxford
               
               
                  BLACKFORD
                  Hartford City
               
               
                  BOONE
                  Lebanon, Thorntown
               
               
                  BROWN
                  Nashville
               
               
                  CARROLL
                  Delphi
               
               
                  CASS
                  Logansport
               
               
                  CLARK
                  Charlestown, Jeffersonville
               
               
                  CLAY
                  Bowling Green, Brazil
               
               
                  CLINTON
                  Frankfort
               
               
                  CRAWFORD
                  Alton, Leavenworth
               
               
                  DAVIESS
                  Washington
               
               
                  DEARBORN
                  Aurora, Lawrenceburg
               
               
                  DECATUR
                  Greensburg
               
               
                  DEKALB
                  Auburn, Vienna
               
               
                  DELAWARE
                  Muncie
               
               
                  ELKHART
                  Elkhart, Goshen
               
               
                  FAYETTE
                  Connersville, Waterloo
               
               
                  FLOYD
                  New Albany
               
               
                  FOUNTAIN
                  Attica, Covington
               
               
                  FRANKLIN
                  Brookville, Springfield
               
               
                  FULTON
                  Rochester
               
               
                  GIBSON
                  Barren, Black River, Marsh Creek,Patoka, Princeton, Snake Run
               
               
                  GRANT
                  Marion
               
               
                  GREENE
                  Bloomfield, Linton, Worthington
               
               
                  HAMILTON
                  Noblesville, Westfield
               
               
                  HANCOCK
                  Greenfield
               
               
                  HARRISON
                  Corydon
               
               
                  HENDRICKS
                  Danville
               
               
                  HENRY
                  Knightstown, New Castle
               
               
                  HOWARD
                  Kokomo, Polar Grove
               
               
                  HUNTINGTON
                  Huntington
               
               
                  JACKSON
                  Seymour, Uniontown, Marling
               
               
                  JASPER
                  Rensselaer
               
               
                  JAY
                  Portland
               
               
                  JEFFERSON
                  North Madison, South Hanover
               
               
                  JENNINGS
                  Vernon
               
               
                  JOHNSON
                  Edinburgh, Franklin, Greenwood
               
               
                  KNOX
                  Vincennes
               
               
                  KOSCIUSKO
                  Warsaw
               
               
                  LA GRANGE
                  La Grange, Lima
               
               
                  LAKE
                  Crown Point
               
               
                  LA PORTE
                  La Porte, Michigan City
               
               
                  LAWRENCE
                  Bedford
               
               
                  MADISON
                  Anderson
               
               
                  MARSHALL
                  Plymouth
               
               
                  MARTIN
                  Dover Hill, Mt. Pleasant
               
               
                  MIAMI
                  Peru
               
               
                  MONROE
                  Bloomington
               
               
                  MONTGOMERY
                  Crawfordsville, Waveland
               
               
                  MORGAN
                  Martinsville, Mooresville
               
               
                  NOBLE
                  Albion
               
               
                  OHIO
                  Rising Sun
               
               
                  ORANGE
                  Lost River, Paoli
               
               
                  OWEN
                  Gosport, Spencer
               
               
                  PARKE
                  Annapolis, Bloomingdale, Rockville
               
               
                  PERRY
                  Cannelton
               
               
                  PIKE
                  Petersburg, Clay Township
               
               
                  PORTER
                  Valparaiso
               
               
                  POSEY
                  Cynthiana, Farmersville, Mt. Vernon, New Harmony, Poseyville, Smith Township,
                            Stewartsville, Wadesville, Springfield
               
               
                  PULASKI
                  Winamac
               
               
                  PUTNAM
                  Bainbridge, Greencastle, Portland Mills
               
               
                  RANDOLPH
                  Winchester
               
               
                  RIPLEY
                  Versailles
               
               
                  RUSH
                  Rushville
               
               
                  ST. JOSEPH
                  Mishawaka, South Bend
               
               
                  SCOTT
                  Lexington
               
               
                  SHELBY
                  Shelbyville
               
               
                  SPENCER
                  Liberty, Rockport
               
               
                  STARKE
                  Knox
               
               
                  STEUBEN
                  Angola
               
               
                  SULLIVAN
                  Carlisle, New Lebanon, Sullivan, Merom
               
               
                  SWITZERLAND
                  Vevay
               
               
                  TIPPECANOE
                  Farmers, Lafayette
               
               
                  TIPTON
                  Tipton
               
               
                  UNION
                  Cottage Grove, Liberty
               
               
                  VANDERBURGH
                  Evansville
               
               
                  VERMILLION
                  Clinton, Eugene, Newport
               
               
                  VIGO
                  Terre Haute
               
               
                  WABASH
                  Wabash
               
               
                  WARREN
                  Williamsport
               
               
                  WARRICK
                  Boonville
               
               
                  WASHINGTON
                  Salem
               
               
                  WAYNE
                  Cambridge City, Centerville, Richmond, Dublin
               
               
                  WELLS
                  Bluffton
               
               
                  WHITE
                  Monticello
               
               
                  WHITNEY
                  Columbia City
               
            
            
                Source: Frances McBride, "Maclure Libraries of Indiana and Illinois," 25,
                        as taken from Jacob P. Dunn, The Libraries of Indiana, (Indianapolis, 1893),
                        13–15. 
            
            
            
                    APPENDIX II
                
            
                    MACLURE LIBRARIES IN ILLINOIS
                
            
               
                  
                            County
                        
                  
                            Community
                        
               
               
                  FRANKLIN
                  Workingmen's Institute of Franklin County
               
               
                  WAYNE
                  Fairfield
               
               
                  WHITE
                  Carmi
               
               
                  
                  Grayville
               
            
            Jacob P. Dunn stated in The Libraries of Indiana that there were sixteen Maclure
                    Libraries in Illinois, but he failed to name them.
            Sources: Frances McBride, "Maclure Libraries in Indiana and Illinois," 26, as taken
                    from History of White County, Illinois (1883), 562-63; and letter from Josephine
                    M. Elliott, New Harmony, Indiana, October 24, 1966.
            
            
                    APPENDIX III
                
            
                    BOOK TITLES AND TYPES
                
            This is a listing of some actual titles making up the original one hundred volumes required to gain a
                    Maclure bequest: the types of materials or the titles which were still held by libraries in 1967.
                    Starred (∗) titles indicate the latter category.
            
               
                  
                            County
                        
                  
                            Community
                        
                  
                            Materials
                        
               
               
                  Allen
                  Fort Wayne
                  Waverly novels, history, biography, travel, agriculture, mechanical arts
               
               
                  Benton
                  Oxford
                  Standard works, history, biography
               
               
                  Cass
                  Logansport
                  Standard works, congressional documents
               
               
                  Dearborn
                  Lawrenceburg
                  
                            Chamber's Miscellany of Useful Knowledge
                        
               
               
                  Delaware
                  Muncie
                  Congressional documents
               
               
                  Greene
                  Worthington
                  Irving, W. Bracebridge Hall (No. 352 of collection)∗
                  
               
               
                  Hancock
                  Greenfield
                  Martin, W. C. L. The Hog
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  Hendricks
                  Danville
                  Congressional documents
               
               
                  Knox
                  Vincennes
                  Alien, J. F. A Practical Treatise on the Culture and Treatment of the Grape
                                Vine
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  (Books were added on June 14, 1905; it is not known if this was the date they
                            were given or the date they were accessioned.)
                  Dodd, G. H. The American Cattle Doctor
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Elliott, F. R. American Fruit Grower's Guide
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Irving, W. The Sketch Book
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Johnson, Louisa Every Lady Her Own Gardener
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Niles, Wm. The Horse's Foot
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Prescott Conquest of Mexico
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Sparks, Jared American Biography
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Washington, H. A. Writings of Thomas Jefferson
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Works by Plutarch, Edmund Burke, Leigh Hunt, Charles Lamb, Francis Bacon, and Ovid∗
                  
               
               
                  Lake
                  Crown Point
                  Barnes, pub. The Constitutions of the Several States of the Union &
                                the U. S.
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  DeTocqueville Democracy in America
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Wirt, Wm. Sketches of the Life and Character of Patrick Henry
                     ∗
                  
               
               
               
                  La Porte
                  La Porte
                  Congressional documents
               
               
                  
                  
                  Fox Book of Martyrs
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  (Starred volumes were existent in 1923, and some were still in collection as of
                            1967.)
                  Gibbon Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Macaulay History of England
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            Niles Weekly Register
                            ∗
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                  Rollin Ancient History
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Works by Burns, Shakespeare, Shelley, Milton, Moore, Pope, Byron, Darwin∗
                  
               
               
                  Morgan
                  Mooresville
                  Allen Rural Architecture
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            American Slave Code
                        
               
               
                  (For a complete listing of books and donors, see the minutes of this society held
                            by the Indiana Divison, Indiana State Library.)
                  
                            Chamber's Miscellany of Knowledge
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            Eminent Dead
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            Life and Speeches of Henry Clay
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            Memoirs of the Duke of Wellington
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                  Rollin Ancient History
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Shakespeare Poems
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            Universal Traveller
                        
               
               
                  Parke
                  Annapolis
                  History, biography, science, poetry, little fiction
               
               
                  Scott
                  Lexington
                  History, travel, some fiction, congressional documents, revised state statutes
               
               
                  Sullivan
                  Carlisle
                  A volume of ancient history, application card signed by Jonathan Williams. These were
                            destroyed in a fire which occurred in March, 1965.
               
               
                  Switzerland
                  Vevay
                  Irving, W. Life of Columbus
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Laubertine The Girondists
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            Life of Oliver Goldsmith
                            ∗
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                  Mares, Edmund Universal History
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                            Memoirs of Celebrated Characters
                            ∗
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                  Morris, B. F. Memorial Record of the Nation's Tribute to Abraham
                                Lincoln
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Parkyns Life in Abyssina
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                     Universal Geography, 1829∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  White, James The Eighteen Christian Centuries
                     ∗
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  Wilkerson Ancient Egyptians, Vol. I and II∗
                  
               
               
               
                  Wabash
                  Wabash
                  Congressional documents
               
               
                  Washington
                  Salem
                  Titles not given, but some books still existent∗
                  
               
               
                  Wayne
                  Richmond
                  One book, title not given
               
               
                  
                  (Morrison–Reeves Library)
                  
               
            
            Source: Frances McBride, "Maclure Libraries in Indiana and Illinois,"
                    36–38.
            
            
                    APPENDIX IV
                
            
                    DISPOSITION OF 37 MACLURE LIBRARIES
                
            
               
                  
                            Literary Society
                        
                  
                            County Library
                        
                  
                            Township Library
                        
                  
                            High School Library
                        
                  
                            Public Library
                        
               
               
                  Lexington
                  Bloomfield
                  Brookville
                  Albion
                  Crown Point
               
               
                  
                  Bloomingdale
                  Decatur
                  Attica
                  Decatur
               
               
                  
                  
                  Frankfort
                  Bloomingdale
                  Fort Wayne
               
               
                  
                  
                  Logansport
                  Bluffton
                  Huntington
               
               
                  
                  
                  New Albany
                  Crown Point
                  LaPorte
               
               
                  
                  
                  Springfield
                  Decatur
                  Mooresville
               
               
                  
                  
                  Rensselaer
                  Fort Wayne
                  Muncie
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Huntington
                  New Albany
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Union (Clay Twp.)
                  New Harmony
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  Williamsport
                  Petersburg
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Princeton
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Richmond
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Salem
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  South Bend
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Terre Haute
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Vevay
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Warsaw
               
            
            McBride, "Maclure Libraries in Indiana and Illinois," 39, explains that these are
                    from notes on individual libraries. All other collections were divided among members, lost, or
                    destroyed in fires.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
