
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 86, Issue 1, pages 1-134. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:86+issue:1+year:1990&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            She Went to War: Indiana Women Nurses in the Civil War
            Peggy Brase Seigel∗
            
            The four years of the Civil War provided unprecedented opportunities for Indiana women to expand
                    their traditional domestic roles. As men rushed to volunteer as soldiers following the surrender of
                    Fort Sumter, 
                        South Carolina
                    , in April, 1861, women devised ways both to help the war cause and to survive
                    financially. Carrying their domestic skills into the public forum, they organized soldiers'
                    aid societies to make clothing and collect supplies that they then shipped to state supply offices
                    or took to soldiers in southern camps. They conducted bazaars and organized benefits to raise funds.
                    They helped needy families of soldiers by supplying them with food and winter fuel. Often, out of
                    financial necessity, they carried on family businesses, or they took jobs that had previously been
                    largely reserved for men.1
            
            Confronted with reports of widespread disease in military hospitals and camps and of neglect and
                    chaos following battles, Indiana women also looked for ways to help the stricken soldiers. Many were
                    inspired by Florence Nightingale, the British woman who 
                  
                     ∗ Peggy Brase Seigel is an English instructor, Lutheran
                            College of Health Professions. 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana. She wishes to express her gratitude to the Indiana Humanities Council
                            for a 1988 summer fellowship that enabled her to complete her research. She also thanks
                            Marybelle Burch and the staff of the Indiana State Library and staff members of the Indiana
                            Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; the 
                                Fort Wayne
                            —
                                Allen County
                             Historical Society: the 
                                Fort Wayne
                            —
                                Allen County
                             Public Library; and the Louis A. 
                                Warren
                                Lincoln
                             Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            .
                  
                     1 For contemporary accounts of Indiana soldiers' aid
                            societies see 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Dawson's Daily Times and Union, January 15, 23, 25, February 4,
                            23, March 1, 29, 1862, June 10, July 15, September 7, 19, 22. October 3, 31, November 30,
                            1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 15, February 4, 31, 1862. Women's
                            employment in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             arsenal and as teachers is described in Emma Lou Thorn-brough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 166, 502. While Samuel Merrill was with the 70th Regiment, the
                            family-owned bookstore and printing business was managed by his two sisters, Catharine and
                            Julia, and Julia's husband, Charles Moores. Following Moores's enlistment
                            and then death, the two sisters continued to run the business. Gisela S. Terrell, Rare Books
                            and Special Collections librarian, 
                                Butler
                             University (Lecture to the Catharine Merrill Club of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , April, 1988).
               
                     had led a corps of women nurses on the battlefields of the
                    Crimean War only six years earlier. Some women, especially those who had worked for women's
                    rights during the previous decades, saw the Civil War as a moral crusade, at once the climax of a
                    long struggle to end slavery and a chance for women to prove themselves capable and equal in a
                    man's world. Others saw nursing opportunities as a badly needed source of income. For a
                    mixture of reasons, then, Hoosier women left their homes to try to serve in hospitals and camps.2
            
            As hope for a quick solution to the war disappeared and as Governor Oliver P. Morton's role
                    in helping Indiana soldiers became more sharply defined, Indiana women found themselves in a unique
                    position. The Indiana governor's determination to care for his state's soldiers
                    outside the national bureaucracies of the army and the 
                        United States
                     Sanitary Commission resulted in the creation of a separate Indiana Sanitary Commission
                    in March, 1862. In January, 1863, Morton and his sanitary commission began to appeal to women to
                    work as nurses in military hospitals and on hospital ships sent south to care for Indiana soldiers.
                    More than any other state agency the Indiana Sanitary Commission encouraged women to take on the
                    risks and adventure of war.3
            
            Paradoxically, in spite of Indiana women nurses' experiences on the battlefield, their
                    endorsement by state authorities, and their increased public visibility, historians largely excluded
                    them from published accounts of the conflict. In the nineteenth century Catharine Merrill's
                    ambitious two-volume study, Soldier of Indiana in the War for the Union,
                    recognized only a small number of women nurses, and William H. H. Terrell's official
                    eight-volume report of 
                  
                     2 By 1860 there was widespread familiarity with Florence
                            Nightingale's books, Notes on Nursing and Notes on
                                Hospitals, and with Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's poem in
                            Nightingale's honor, "The Lady with the Lamp." Bessie Z. Jones,
                            ed., "Introduction," in Louisa May Alcott, Hospital
                            Sketches (1863; reprint, 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1960), xxvi. Mary Frame Myers Thomas of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, a physician and leader of the Indiana Woman's Rights
                            Association, wrote to Susan B. Anthony on the occasion of the meeting of the
                            Woman's Loyal League in 
                                New York
                             on May 14, 1863, "As the war is working out for woman a higher and
                            nobler life while it is destined in the providence of God to free the slave, it will also
                            bring about in a great measure the enfranchisement of women." Elizabeth Cady
                            Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Matilda Joslyn Gage, eds., History of Woman
                                Suffrage (6 vols., 
                                Rochester
                            , N. Y., 1881), II, 882. A widow with two sons in the army wrote Indiana
                            Governor Oliver P. Morton that she was "in great need" and not able to get
                            enough sewing to support herself. Another nursing applicant wrote that she was a
                            thirty-seven-year-old widow made a poor woman by "adverse circumstances."
                            Mrs. R. J. Ryman to Governor Oliver P. Morton, February 19, 1862, Oliver P. Morton
                            Collection (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library
                            and Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Mrs. Sarah Tavenner to Morton, September 24, 1862, ibid.
                  
                  
                     3 See William H. H. Terrell, Indiana in the War of the
                                Rebellion: Vol. I, Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                                Indiana (1869; reprint, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 394–449.
               
                     the war devoted only a single page to the services of Indiana
                    women nurses. Terrell, in fact, mentioned only two women nurses, Hannah Powell and Asinae Martin of 
                        Goshen
                    , singling them out because they had died while working in a smallpox hospital in
                            
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               .4 Recent historians, including Mary
                    Elizabeth Massey and Ann Douglas Wood, have recognized the general resistance that women nurses met
                    from male authorities but have failed to consider exceptions to this rule, such as Morton and his
                    appointed agents.5
            
            Contributing further to the obscurity of Indiana's pioneer nurses is the fact that few of
                    the hundreds of biographical sketches of nurses published shortly after the Civil War include
                    Indiana women. Brief descriptions of only eight Indiana nurses, plus the Sisters of the Holy Cross,
                    St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame, have been found. Of all the published personal
                    reminiscences only two are known to mention Indiana women. Mary A. Livermore, the 
                        Chicago
                    -based organizer and manager of the Northwest Sanitary Commission, praises the wartime
                    nursing of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in her reminiscences, My Story of the
                    War; and a New 
                        England
                     schoolteacher-turned-nurse names Indiana women nurses whom she encountered in
                            
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               , and at Jefferson General Hospital in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana.6
            
            More recent accounts of Indiana's Civil War nurses include studies of Eliza George of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and histories of two orders of Catholic sisters of Indiana. On the
                        King's Highway, the history of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, gives a detailed
                    record of the nuns' service during the war and provides biographical information for Mother
                    M. Angela (Eliza Gillespie), director of St. Mary's Academy. Two brief histories of the
                    Sisters of 
                  Providence, St.
                            Mary-of-the-Woods, Vigo County
               ,
                    describe this order's work for four years 
                  
                     4 [Catharine Merrill], The Soldier of Indiana in the War
                                for the Union (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866, 1869); Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion,
                            443. Bettie Bates and Catharine Merrill of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , who nursed in Kentucky during the winter of 1861–1862, are praised
                            in Theodore T. Scribner and David Stevenson, Indiana's Roll of
                            Honor (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1864, 1866), I, 541–42; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Memorial
                                Record of Distinguished Men of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1912), 254, 265–68; and John R. McBride, History of
                                the Thirty-Third Indiana Veteran Volunteer Infantry during the Four Years of Civil
                            War … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900), 31. Dunn describes only one other nurse, Eliza George of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            . Dunn, Memorial Record of Distinguished Men,
                            791–93. McBride also praises wives of officers of the 33rd Regiment: Mrs.
                            Henderson, wife of Lieutenant Colonel James 
                                Henderson
                            ; Mrs. Hendricks, wife of Captain Isaac C. Hendricks; and Caroline Coburn, wife
                            of Colonel John Coburn.
                  
                     5 Mary Elizabeth Massey, Bonnet Brigades (
                                New York
                            , 1966); Ann Douglas Wood, "The War within a War: Women Nurses in the
                            Union Army," Civil War History, XVIII (September, 1972),
                            197–212.
                  
                     6 Sketches of the wartime experiences of Martha Baker of
                                    
                        Concord, Tippecanoe County
                     ; Lois Dennett Dunbar of 
                                Michigan City
                            ; Elenor C. Ransom of 
                                Dearborn County
                            ; the Sisters of the Holy Cross, St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame; Vesta
                            M. W. Swarts, M. D., of 
                                Auburn
                            ; Mary Venard of 
                                Terre Haute
                            ; and Mary J. Watson of
               
                     at the 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Hospital; and Ellen Ryan Jolly's comprehensive study entitled Nuns of the Battlefield provides further information on the nursing services of these two
                    orders. Particularly valuable is Jolly's identification by name and birthplace of
                    sixty-three Sisters of the Holy Cross. Finally, a volume devoted to Catharine Merrill includes a
                    chapter on her Civil War experiences and briefly mentions other 
                        Indianapolis
                     women who served as volunteer nurses.7
            
            A few extant primary sources reveal further information about eight Indiana women Civil War nurses.
                    Letters by and about Eliza George in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     newspapers and in the papers of Hugh McCulloch, Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's secretary of the treasury, and of Oliver P. Morton describe some of
                    George's experiences in military and field hospitals in Tennessee and 
                        Mississippi
                    , with General William T. Sherman's army in 
                        Georgia
                    , and in 
                  Wilmington, North Carolina
               . Reminiscences and letters of
                    Catharine Merrill's older sister, Jane Merrill Ketcham, record daily experiences of a nurse
                    in charge of a field hospital in a female seminary building in Gallatin, 
                        Tennessee
                    . Letters of Bettie Bates, who was an 
                        Indianapolis
                     friend of the Merrill sisters and who worked in Tennessee and served on hospital
                    steamers, provide insight into Bates's experiences and into those of other women who
                    volunteered as nurses. 
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             are in Mary A. Gardner Holland, comp., Our Army Nurses:
                                Interesting Sketches, Addresses, and Photographs of Nearly One Hundred of the Noble
                                Women Who Served in Hospitals and on Battlefields in Our Civil War (
                                Boston
                            , 1895). Linus Brockett and Mary C. Vaughn's Woman's Work in the Civil War: A Record of Heroism. Patriotism and
                            Patience (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1867) includes sketches of Harriet R. Colfax of 
                                Michigan City
                             and Eliza George of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            . In Women of the War; Their Heroism and Self-Sacrifice (
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., 1867), 483, Frank Moore mentions Dorothy Brake of 
                                Delphi
                            , Indiana, in a sketch of two 
                        Peoria, Illinois
                     ,
                            women who served in 
                                Memphis
                             hospitals. Mary A. Livermore, My Story of the War: A
                                Woman's Narrative of Four Years Personal Experience as Nurse in the Union
                            Army … (
                                Hartford
                            , Conn., 1890), 204–205, 218–19. Elvira J. Powers
                            encountered P. H. Roots and his wife. Susan C. Brown Roots; Ellen Rhodes; and Mrs. D. F.
                            Disney, all of 
                                Connersville
                            , in 
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     , in the fall of 1864. In the
                            winter of 1864—1865 Powers worked with Ellen Rhodes at Jefferson General
                            Hospital, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , Indiana. There, too, she knew Eliza Hardy of Pendleton and C. Annette Buckel,
                            the superintendent of women nurses. Elvira J. Powers, Hospital Pencillings:
                                Being a Diary While in Jefferson General Hospital, Jeffesonville, Ind., and Others at 
                                    Nashville
                                . 
                                    Tennessee
                                , as Matron and Visitor (
                                Boston
                            , 1866), 95, 98–99, 121, 192, 197–201.
                  
                     7 Hilary A. Sadler, Mother George: 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                's Angel of Mercy (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind.. 1964); Peggy Brase Seigel, "Eliza George: Civil War
                            Nurse," Old Fort News, L (No. 2, 1987), 3–8; Sister M.
                            Eleanore, On the King's Highway: A History of the Sisters of the Holy
                                Cross of St. Mary of the Immaculate Conception, Notre Dame, Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1930); Ellen Ryan Jolly, Nuns of the Battlefield (
                                Providence
                            , R. I., 1927); J. F. McShane, The Hand of 
                                    Providence
                                : A Tribute to the Civil War Nurses of the Sisters of 
                           Providence, St.
                                        Mary-of-the-Woods
                        , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.); Mary Theodosia Mug, Lest We Forget: The Sisters of 
                                    Providence
                                 of 
                                    St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                                 in Civil War Service (
                                St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                            , Ind., 1931); Katharine Merrill Graydon, ed., Catharine Merrill:
                                Life and Letters (
                                Greenfield
                            , Ind., 1934).
               
                     Letters have also survived from and about Jane Graydon of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a nurse at Crab Orchard, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and then at 
                        Nashville
                    ; C. Annette Buckel, physician and nursing supervisor; Adelia Carter New, one of the few
                    Indiana women nurses known to have worked in eastern hospitals; and Sister M. Angela of St.
                    Mary's Academy.8 Other primary sources include letters from women or
                    relatives of women seeking nursing positions, a military pass issued to a female nurse by Governor
                    Morton's 
                        Louisville
                     agent, and a list of surgeons and nurses on board a steamship chartered to transport
                    Indiana soldiers from 
                  Vicksburg, Mississippi
               . Finally, three volumes in the
                    nine-volume Diary of Calvin Fletcher include references to several 
                        Indianapolis
                     women who served as volunteer nurses.9
            
            For names of Indiana women nurses the single best source is the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal during the early months of 1863. Between January and March of that
                    year the newspaper lists 124 women nurses, frequently with their home and hospital 
                  
                     8 Eliza George's letters are in the 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Daily Gazette, September 7, 30, 1864, December 18, 1865, May 5, 1866. See
                            also Eliza George to James H. Turner, 
                                Nashville
                            . March 22, 1864, Morton Collection; Susan Man McCulloch, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , to Hugh McCulloch, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., June 23, September 24, 1864, McCulloch Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); Mrs. E. E. George, 
                        Wilmington, North
                            Carolina
                     , to Susan Man McCulloch, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , March 15, 1865, ibid. "Reminiscences of Jane
                            Merrill Ketcham," Jane Merrill Ketcham Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). Eleven letters written by Jane Merrill Ketcham to her family between December
                            21, 1862, and February 10, 1863, while she was nursing in Gallatin, 
                                Tennessee
                            , are in the John Lewis Ketcham Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). Bettie Bates to Berry, February 22, 1863, Morton Collection; Bettie Bates to
                            Mrs. Ketcham, February 25, 1863, John Lewis Ketcham Papers. Six letters of Jane Chambers
                            McKinney Graydon convey the experiences of a sixty-year-old 
                                Indianapolis
                             woman who worked in 
                        Nashville,
                                    Tennessee
                     , hospitals in the
                            winter of 1863. See Jane Chambers McKinney Graydon Papers (Indiana Historical Society
                            Library). C. Annette Buckel to Phillip Hornbrook, December 1, 1864, Morton Collection;
                            Buckel to William Hannaman, March 14. May 30, July 22, December, 1866, ibid. Adelia New to W. H. Demotte, August 12, July 24, August 22, 27, 1864, ibid.; Adelia New to Oliver P. Morton, February 3, 1865, ibid. Letters by and about Elenor Ransom include a testimonial by George O. Jobes,
                            Indiana military agent, and T. P. Robb, the Illinois agent. August 8, 1864, ibid.; and Elenor Ransom to W. H. Demotte, Indiana military agent in 
                                Washington
                            . D. C., March 21, April 6, 1865, ibid. Sister M. Angela
                            (Eliza Gillespie) to Morton, April 29, May 2, 1862, ibid. Asahel Stone to
                            Morton, November 7, 1861, ibid.; William R. Holloway to Morton, March 2,
                            1862, ibid. In a letter to her mother dated December 18, 1861, Susan E.
                            Wallace describes the services of Mother Angela and thirty nuns, "a flock of white
                            doves," in a Paducah, 
                                Kentucky
                            , hospital. See Lew Wallace Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     9 The Oliver P. Morton Collection includes seventeen letters from
                            women or relatives or friends of women wanting positions as nurses, only one of whom,
                            Dorothy Brake of 
                                Delphi
                            , Indiana, is known to have served. The letter written by her brother describes
                            Brake as a widow with one son in the army, "a devoted Christian," and
                            "an excellent nurse." M. Simpson to Morton, 
                                Delphi
                            , Indiana, March 31, 1862, Morton Collection; "Military pass for Miss
                            H. McCord for use on a steamer
               
                    
                    
                  VESTA M. W. SWARTS
                  
               
                    
                  MARTHA A. BAKER
                  
               
                    
                  MARY J. WATSON
                  
               
                    
                  MOTHER M. ANGELA (ELIZA GILLESPIE)
                  Reproduced from Mary A. Gardner Holland, comp., Our Army Nurses
                            … (
                                Boston
                            , 1895), 144, 228, 216, 570.
               
                    
                    
                  HARRIET R. COLFAX
                  
               
                    
                  ELENOR C. RANSOM
                  
                  Courtesy Special Collections Branch. U. S. Army Military History Institute, 
                                Carlisle
                             Barracks. 
                                Pennsylvania
                            .
               
                    
                  LOIS H. DUNBAR
                  
               
                    
                  MARY VENARD
                  
                  Reproduced from Mary A. Gardner Holland, comp., Our Army Nurses
                            … (
                                Boston
                            , 1895), 294, 254.
               
                     assignment. In addition, letters and reports published in the Daily Journal give a unique account of the women's experiences on board
                    steamships and in military hospitals.10 Although the Indiana Sanitary Commission
                    apparently made no systematic attempt to record women's experiences during the war, the
                    commission's reports are an invaluable source for names of Indiana nurses and for
                    descriptions of their service. The agent assigned to look after Indiana soldiers in the teeming
                    wartime hospital and supply center at 
                  Memphis,
                            Tennessee
               , for example, listed thirteen
                    Indiana women in his report of September, 1863. Reports sent to Morton during Sherman's
                    campaign to 
                        Atlanta
                     in 1864 describe the efforts of Eliza George in caring and cooking for thousands of
                    wounded soldiers near Kingston, 
                        Georgia
                    . Inspectors sent to tour eastern camps and hospitals recorded the services of Indiana
                    women in hospitals in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., and at 
                        Winchester
                     and City Point, 
                        Virginia
                    . Furthermore, lists of supplies sent to strategic hospital centers often included the
                    name of the woman nurse charged with distributing them.11
            
            
               from 
                            Louisville
                         to 
                            Cincinnati
                         by authority of Governor Morton," issued by Colonel Jason Ham, Indiana
                        military agent, 
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  , ibid. Morton chartered the
                        steamer City Belle to transport a medical party and supplies from 
                            Madison
                        . Indiana, to 
                     Vicksburg, Mississippi
                  , and back between June 25 and
                        July 15, 1863. On board were twenty–five surgeons and nurses, including seven women:
                        Mrs. Teal, Mrs. Stone, Miss Way, Miss Howe, Miss Bates, Mrs. Bales, and Mrs. Brown. Mrs. Stone
                        was the wife of Asahel Stone, Morton's commissary general. It is assumed that Miss Way
                        was Amanda Way of 
                            Winchester
                         and Miss Bates, Bettie Bates of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . The steamer returned with only fifteen sick and wounded soldiers. Ibid. Calvin Fletcher refers to the nursing of Caroline Test Coburn, Jane Graydon.
                        Bettie Bates, Jane Merrill Ketcham, and his daughter-in-law, Emily Beeler Fletcher. Gayle
                        Thornbrough, Dorothy L. Riker, and Paula Corpuz, eds., The Diary of Calvin
                        Fletcher … (9 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1972–1983), VII, VIII, IX, passim.
               
               
                  10
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, January 7, 29, February 6, 21, March 3, 13, 20, 1863. The issue
                        of January 19 gives a humorous account of women nurses traveling by steamboat to
                                
                     Nashville, Tennessee
                  , on the 
                            Cumberland
                         River. Calls for women nurses were printed on January 6, 18, 1863, and a report by
                        George Merritt, one of Morton's most assiduous agents, regarding women nurses that he
                        accompanied to 
                            Memphis
                         appeared March 23, 1863.
               
                  11 Report of George O. Jobes, Indiana military agent, 
                            Memphis
                        , to William Hannaman, September 21, 1864, in Indiana, Documentary
                            Journal (1864–1865), part II, 175. Jobes listed the following Indiana women
                        then serving in 
                            Memphis
                         hospitals: Gayoso—Mrs. Brake, Miss Hovey, and Mrs. Ellen Moore; 
                            Jackson
                        —Miss Ellen Cahill and Miss Laura Smith; 
                            Washington
                        —Miss Harriet McCord and Miss Marshall; Union—Mrs. Lee and
                        Mrs. Martha Ray; Adams—Mrs. Mannow, Miss Stoffer, and Miss Miller. For report on
                        Eliza George see George Merritt to William Hannaman, Kingston, 
                            Georgia
                        , June 4, 1864, ibid., 182–83. The report of Drs.
                        Athon, Wiley, and Riddell to Morton, May 9, 1862, praises the nursing service of Adelia New at
                                
                     Winchester, Virginia
                  , and of Mrs. Caleb B. Smith, the wife of 
                            Lincoln
                        's first secretary of the interior, at 
                            Washington
                        , D. C., ibid. (1862–1863), part II, vol. II, 1227. See
                        also H. B. Hibben to William Hannaman, July 18, 1864, ibid.
                        (1864–1865), part II, 195. Indiana women nurses named as distributing supplies for
                        the Indiana Sanitary Commission were as follows: Miss Allen, 
                            Louisville
                        , April 10, 1862, April 11, 1863; Sister Angello [Angela], Union Hospital, 
                            Memphis
                        , August 11, 1862; Sister St. John, 
                            Memphis
                        , December 4, 1862; Mrs. Colonel Coburn, 
                     Franklin, Tennessee
                  ,
            
            
            Finally, records of the Adjutant General's Office, the Surgeon General's Office,
                    and the military pension files in the National Archives, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., document the experiences of previously identified women nurses. Alphabetical
                    card files entitled "Hospital Attendants, Matrons and Nurses,
                    1861–1865" record hospital assignments from muster rolls and payrolls. Records
                    for Union military hospitals included in "Monthly Returns of Nurses,
                    1861–1865" contain lists of women employed as nurses in military hospitals; and
                    invalid pension applications filed either for women nurses or for their husbands yield invaluable
                    biographical information for sixteen of Indiana's Civil War nurses.12
            
            For a war that was fought by over two-and-one-half million citizen soldiers for over four years, even
                    to suggest the number of Indiana women who served as paid and volunteer nurses is folly. In his
                    final report to Morton in 1866 William Hannaman, president of the Indiana Sanitary Commission,
                    reported that his agency sent "about two hundred and fifty" women into service as
                    volunteer nurses between 1863 and 1865.13 Before and after the state's
                    efforts to recruit and assign women nurses, however, Indiana women, like thousands of other American
                    women, followed independent routes to nursing experiences. As early as the spring of 1861 when
                    regiments were first organized, women accompanied soldiers to help with practical everyday chores
                    such as laundry and supply keeping and to serve as nurses when needed. Women of all ages wanted to
                    look after "dear relations and friends" in specific regiments. Wives accompanied
                    officer husbands, surgeons, and privates alike. Women worked as nurses at Camp Morton, first a
                    training camp for Indiana volunteers and then a prison for Confederate soldiers on the site of the
                    state fairgrounds at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .14
                    
                  March 2, 
                                Nashville
                            , March 6. 1863; Mrs. E. E. George, 
                        Pulaski, Tennessee
                     ,
                            January 26, 
                                Chattanooga
                            , August 29, 
                                Nashville
                            . November 15, 1864; Miss Fussell, 
                                Louisville
                            , March 23, 1864; Mrs. E. C. Ransom, 
                                Memphis
                            , March 27, 1864; and Miss E. A. Hardy. Clay General Hospital. 
                                Louisville
                            , September 15, 1864, ibid., 117–55, passim. Reports of Morton's agents appear throughout the Documentary Journal from 1861 through 1865.
                  
                     12 Records of the 
                                United States
                             Adjutant General's Office and of the Surgeon General's Office
                            are part of Record Group 94 in the National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C. In Records of the Adjutant General's Office, the alphabetical
                            file "Hospital Attendants, Matrons and Nurses, 1861–1865"
                            consists of twenty-two boxes of cards. Each card records information from a single payroll
                            or muster roll. In Box 20. "Monthly Returns of Nurses,
                            1861–1865," thirty-nine women are listed as paid and volunteer nurses in
                            four hospitals in 
                                Evansville
                             for October, 1862. See note 24 below. Also in the Records of the Adjutant
                            General's Office, pension files were found for Martha A. Baker, C. Annette Buckel,
                            Harriet R. Colfax, Lois Dennett Dunbar, Eliza 
                                Boston
                             Hardy, George W. New, Elenor C. Ransom, Maggie Stauffer, Vesta M. W. Swarts,
                            Mary Venard, Mary J. Watson, Amanda Way, and Sarah M. Wells.
                  
                     13 William Hannaman, president, and Alfred Harrison, treasurer,
                            "Final Report of Officers of the Indiana Sanitary Commission, 1866, to Governor
                            Morton, Transmitted to Secretary of State. Filed August 18, 1875." Morton
                            Collection.
                  
                     14 For information on the presence of women with early Civil War
                            regiments see 
                                Michigan
                            . Civil War Centennial Observance Commission, Michigan Women in the
                                Civil War (Lansing. Mich., 1963), and letters in the Morton Collection.
               
                     There were, in fact, so many women with regiments in the field
                    that Dorothea Dix, President 
                        Lincoln
                    's superintendent of nurses, issued an order in June, 1861, that only women
                    serving as matrons or laundresses be allowed to stay. In addition, women were to serve as nurses
                    only at base hospitals where they would be supervised and only after being approved by Dix or one of
                    her agents. Reinforcing Dix's attempt at control, General Don Carlos Buell, commander of
                    the Army of the 
                        Ohio
                    , issued an order later in 1861 that all women, regardless of position or status, leave
                    the regiments. Subsequently, other generals issued similar bans.15
            
            In defiance of such regulations wives of Indiana surgeons and officers remained with their husbands
                    and nursed soldiers in field and general hospitals. Adelia Carter New of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , wife of Surgeon George New of the 7th Indiana, accompanied her husband's
                    regiment through West Virginia and 
                        Virginia
                    , serving as a nurse for three years. Caroline Test Coburn, wife of Colonel John Coburn
                    of the 33rd Indiana Regiment, frequently visited her husband in Kentucky and Tennessee and nursed
                    him and members of his regiment when needed. In November, 1861, two other officers' wives
                    served as nurses for the men of the 33rd, over half of whom lay sick and wounded in the remote
                    village of Crab Orchard in southeastern 
                        Kentucky
                    .16
            
            Although other Indiana women were eager to work as nurses on the battlefront, responses to their
                    offers of help were mixed. In early January, 1862, after an appeal in churches and in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal for women to help the 33rd Regiment, five 
                        Indianapolis
                     women found their way to the almost inaccessible village of Crab Orchard. Accompanied
                    by volunteer surgeons and other citizens from central Indiana, the women took with them large
                    quantities of food and supplies that had been collected as emergency relief for the soldiers. In
                    February, 1861, however, when 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens had made arrangements for care for Indiana soldiers lying partially frozen
                    near Fort Donelson on the 
                        Cumberland
                     River in 
                        Tennessee
                    , women were excluded. "A number of ladies proffered their services as
                    nurses," the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal reported, "but it was thought that the physicians and male
                    nurses could render all the assistance needed, and their services were, therefore,
                    declined." Women persisted nevertheless, 
                  
                     15 Minnie Dubbs Millbrook, "Michigan Women Who Went to
                            War," Michigan Women in the Civil War, 16, 20, 25.
                  
                     16 See notes 8, 11, and 12 above regarding Adelia New. New is also
                            mentioned in Merrill, Soldier of Indiana, II, 662. Caroline
                            Coburn's nursing with the 33rd Indiana Regiment is described in notes 5, 9, and 11
                            above. Other wives of officers of the 33rd Regiment are named in note 5.
               
                     and over three hundred nurses joined rescue parties of surgeons
                    sent south on steamships after the battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     in April, 1861.17
            
            While some women found it difficult to serve as nurses, women relatives of stricken soldiers were
                    readily granted passes to travel to southern hospitals and camps as temporary nurses. Morton
                    encouraged families to care for their soldier relatives and, at least in the early years of the war,
                    to bring them home to recover. The widespread chaos and medical neglect resulting from the war
                    minimized not only the social taboos that discouraged women from traveling alone but also the real
                    risks of entering a war zone. Women such as Ellen Cathcart, who was a teacher in Catharine
                    Merrill's school in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and who traveled to Gallatin, 
                        Tennessee
                    , to nurse her brother, stayed for several weeks to care for other soldiers.18
            
            Women who tried to comply with Dix's order to work as nurses only in military hospitals
                    discovered that the process of finding a position was confusing and often unproductive. While they
                    knew that staffs of efficient eastern military hospitals included women nurses, they learned that
                    nursing positions in the West were hard to come by. If they wrote to Dix in 
                        Washington
                    , she advised them to contact the Western Sanitary Commission in 
                        St. Louis
                     or the Northwestern Sanitary Commission in 
                        Chicago
                    . Provided that the applicant met certain criteria, the sanitary commissions'
                    agents issued the woman a nursing certificate. A nursing assignment, however, was available only if
                    a hospital physician requested women nurses. If, however, potential nurses wrote to Morton to ask
                    his advice, he and his agents recommended that they apply directly to the supervising physician at
                    the desired hospital.19
            
            Nursing schools had not as yet been established at the time of the Civil War; therefore, women nurses
                    in military hospitals were not required to have any formal training. Their selection was based on
                    age, appearance, and reputation. The woman applicant 
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 7, February 18, 1862. In her biography of Catharine
                            Merrill, Katharine Merrill Graydon names Bettie Bates, Mrs. John Coburn, Mrs. Calvin
                            Fletcher, Jr., Mrs. Jane C. Graydon, and Mrs. J. L. Ketcham as the women who first
                            volunteered to nurse the 33rd Indiana Regiment. Graydon, Catharine
                            Merrill, 306n. Other sources suggest that Caroline Coburn was already in Kentucky prior
                            to the call for help. Reports of women nurses sent to Pittsburg Landing or 
                                Shiloh
                             are inconclusive. The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal for April 10, 1862, reported that "some forty or
                            fifty nurses" were to leave 
                                Evansville
                             on a chartered steamship the next day. Oliver P. Morton's biographer
                            indicated that the governor recruited a force of sixty surgeons and three hundred nurses to
                            care for the sick and wounded. William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P.
                            Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I, 165.
                  
                     18 Graydon, Catharine Merrill, 314.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Geneva
                             Kebler, "A Cool Hand for the Fever'd Brow," Michigan Women in the Civil War, 90–91; Asahel Stone,
                            commissary general, to Misses Kellogg and Sanderson, July 24, 1862, James B. Plessinger
                            Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
               
                     must be at least thirty years old, plain in appearance, plain in
                    dress. Moreover, she needed to convince the agent of the sanitary commission that she was physically
                    and morally equal to the inevitable tests of her strength. Women were advised, too, to carry with
                    them letters of recommendation from their local soldiers' aid society, from their pastor,
                    and, if possible, from a physician acquainted with their skills as home nurses.20
            
            Even for those women certified by sanitary commission officials, there were very few openings.
                    Although military hospitals along the Ohio River and in 
                        St. Louis
                     were often overflowing with sick and wounded soldiers, many physicians preferred to
                    follow the military custom of using convalescent soldiers as nurses. In the hospitals that she
                    visited in the winter of 1862, Mary A. Liver-more, a leader of the 
                        Chicago
                    -based Northwest Sanitary Commission, found that "the greatest
                    prejudice" was "against Protestant women nurses." If medical authorities
                    allowed any women nurses at all, they preferred Catholic sisters, although the nuns, too, were
                    sometimes shunned. As historian Ann Douglas Wood has pointed out, women nurses often had to fight
                    their own war within a war with male medical and military authorities.21 Still,
                    a small number of Indiana women gained entry to military hospitals. Tested by the hardships and
                    horrors of war, they convinced medical authorities of the invaluable role that women could play.
            Harriet Reese Colfax, a thirty-one-year-old widow from 
                        Michigan City
                    , survived two-and-one-half years of arduous nursing in 
                        St. Louis
                     hospitals and on hospital steamships. Leaving her young children with her mother,
                    Colfax applied to James Yeatman, president of the Western Sanitary Commission, in October, 1861, and
                    was immediately assigned to the 
                        St. Louis City
                     Hospital. Here she was one of a small number of women nurses charged with caring for
                    the thousands of soldiers wounded at the battle of Fort Donelson and suffering from diseases brought
                    on from overexposure. In the spring of 1862 she went out on hospital steamships sent by the Western
                    Sanitary Commission to care for soldiers wounded in the battles for 
                        Memphis
                     and at 
                        Shiloh
                    . The following summer Colfax began a year of service at Jefferson Barracks, a
                    convalescent hospital outside 
                        St. Louis
                    . Throughout her service she was supported 
                  
                     20 Rena Littlefield Miner of Sturgis, 
                                Michigan
                            , was repeatedly turned down by William Hannaman, president of the Indiana
                            Sanitary Commission, for being too young. Finally, he accepted her on the condition that she
                            be accompanied by six older women. When the time came for her to report to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , however, only one of the older women was still willing to serve as a nurse.
                            Nevertheless, Hannaman assigned Littlefield to a 
                                Louisville
                             hospital. Holland, Our Army Nurses, 139–41.
                  
                     21 Livermore, My Story of the War, 224; Sister M.
                            Patrick (McGockin) and Sister M. Anthony as quoted by Sister M. Eleanore, On
                                The King's Highway, 239, 251–52; Wood, "The War within
                            a War," passim.
                  
               
                     and encouraged by her medical supervisors, one of whom wrote,
                    "No female nurse … was more universally beloved and respected, than was Mrs.
                        Colfax."22
            
            Another young Indiana widow who was certified by the Western Sanitary Commission in the early months
                    of the war and who gained wide acceptance was Lois Dennett, also from 
                        Michigan City
                    . In November, 1861, at the age of thirty-two she joined her friend Harriet Colfax at
                    the City Hospital in 
                        St. Louis
                    . During that first winter she shared responsibilities with Colfax for caring for as
                    many as three hundred soldiers at a time following the battle of Fort Donelson. In the spring of
                    1862 when military hospitals were first being established in southern Indiana, she wrote Morton
                    asking his help in getting assigned to a hospital "at 
                        Evansville
                     or some other place where nurses are wanted." Although it is not known if the
                    governor influenced her assignment, she was soon placed in charge of an 
                        Evansville
                     hospital, acting, in her words, as both "commanding officer and
                    nurse" and as a surgical assistant. In addition, she was given five other hospitals to look
                    after, no small responsibility considering the thousands of patients that were brought to 
                        Evansville
                     during the next two years while she remained in service there.23
            
            Other women also found nursing opportunities in 
                        Evansville
                     military hospitals, which fact suggests that at least some physicians there supported
                    women nurses. In October, 1862, for example, thirty-eight women served as paid and volunteer nurses
                    in 
                        Evansville
                     at a time when neither New 
                        Albany
                     nor 
                        Jeffersonville
                     hospitals employed women nurses. According to available pay records, this selective
                    pattern of employment continued through 1863. Only in February, 1864, when the large Jefferson
                    General Hospital opened in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , did another military hospital in Indiana employ women nurses.24
            
            
               
                  22 Quoted in "Mrs. Harriet R. Colfax," Brockett and
                        Vaughn, Woman's Work in the Civil War, 397. Before his death in 1856
                        Harriet Colfax's first husband, Richard W. Colfax, briefly owned and published a Whig
                        newspaper in 
                            Michigan City
                        . He was most likely a cousin of Schuyler Colfax of 
                            South Bend
                        , speaker of the 
                            United States
                         House of Representatives from 1863 to 1869.
               
                  23 Holland, Our Army Nurses, 295–97; Lois N.
                        Dennett to Oliver P. Morton, April 15, 1862, Morton Collection. Dennett to William H. H.
                        Terrell, April 26, 1862, ibid. On December 10, 1864, Lois Dennett married
                        George A. Dunbar, a corporal in Company A, 3rd Iowa Infantry. Lois H. Dunbar Dennett, Invalid
                        Pension Application, Soldier's Certificate 85127, Can No. 17469, Bundle 38, Records of
                        the Record and Pension Office, Records of the Adjutant General's Office, Record Group
                        94 (National Archives).
               
                  24 On October 17, 1862, women listed as nurses at Hospital No. 5 in 
                            Evansville
                         included Mary Woods, Sarah Woods, Mary J. Peck, Jane O. Brien, Henrietta Domuss.
                        Elissa Johnson, Parmelia Cooper, Salina Sev, Augusta Hadley, Joanna Turner, Mary Phillips,
                        Catherine Ninnemon, Sophia Willa, Clara Newpalace, Susan Barrow, Thirsu Gusset, Sarah Patterson,
                        Mary J. Seay, Esther Phebus, and Dora Marty, Women nurses listed as employed elsewhere in 
                            Evansville
                         hospitals for the same time period were Margaret Kane, Margaret Gallespie, Mrs.
                        Garey, Anna 
                            Brown
                        , Martha Dirts, and Thursey Gossit at Hospital No. 1; Mrs. Grote, Mary Hoover, Anna
                        Donelander, Mrs. Kasley, and Mrs. Scherholk at Hospital No. 3; Lois H. Dennett, Celia Nagle,
                        Kate Blanth, Louisa Blanth, Sarah Climer. Ellen Rout,
            
            
            
               U.S. MARINE HOSPITAL EVANSVILLE, INDIANA
               
               Reproduced from Holland Thompson, ed., Photographic History of the Civil War in Ten
                            Volumes: Vol. VII, Prisons and Hospitals (
                            New York
                        , 1911), 233.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            Although many administrators in military hospitals refused to employ women nurses, Morton in the
                    first months of the war had already begun to depend upon Indiana women to serve as volunteer nurses
                    in state hospitals and in the field. In May, 1861, for example, soon after Indiana's first
                    regiments were organized, the governor asked the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     of 
                  St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Vigo County
               , to take charge of nursing and practical
                    operations at the 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Hospital. Until the last Indiana soldiers were mustered out of the army in July, 1865,
                    the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     nursed Union soldiers and Confederate prisoners alike, winning wide respect for their
                    kind, efficient care. In October, 1861, Morton appealed to the Sisters of the Holy Cross, St.
                    Mary's Academy, Notre Dame, to serve as battlefield nurses. Until the end of the war eighty
                    sisters from Notre Dame managed and served in hospitals primarily in Cairo and Mound City, 
                        Illinois
                    , in Paducah and 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , and in 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               .25
            
            Although Morton was not the only western governor to establish state offices in major military and
                    hospital centers, send volunteer nurses on hospital ships, or support the services of Catholic
                    sisters in hospitals, he was certainly the most aggressive and the most independent of the war
                    governors. Early in the war frustrations over trying to equip Indiana troops had convinced him of
                    the need to supply Indiana soldiers independently. As he and his agents visited camps and hospitals,
                    impatience over medical incompetence and negligence reinforced his belief that systematically
                    organized medical care should be greatly expanded. A few days after the battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     in early April, 1862, Morton urged Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton to recruit
                    additional surgeons for field duty. Impatient over Stanton's hesitation and fearing great
                    losses in renewed fighting, Morton telegraphed the secretary of war on April 21 that he intended to
                    send two additional assistant surgeons to care for the twenty-four Indiana regiments anticipating
                    battle at Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    .26
            
            Because Morton was unwilling to trust volunteer workers affiliated with the 
                        United States
                     Sanitary Commission or an informal system of emergency relief to look after the medical
                    needs of 
                  Lavinia Watson, and Pamelia Watson at Hospital No. 1. "Indiana: 
                                Evansville
                            , New 
                        Albany, Jeffersonville
                     ," Box 20,
                            "Monthly Returns of Nurses, 1861–1865," Records of the Adjutant
                            General's Office.
                  
                     25 Sister M. Eleanore, On The King's
                            Highway, 233–68; McShane, Hand of 
                                    Providence
                                ; Mug, Lest We Forget.
                  
                  
                     26 Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion,
                            439. Ohio and Illinois also supplemented efforts of the 
                                United States
                             Sanitary Commission in caring for their state's soldiers. Ibid., 419. The report of C. J. Woods to Morton, December 19, 1862, states that
                            Jason Ham was then opening an Indiana military agency in 
                                Louisville
                             and that Ohio and Illinois would soon do likewise. Indiana, Documentary Journal (1862–1863), part II, vol. II, 1092.
               
                     his state's soldiers, he created, in March, 1862, the
                    Indiana Sanitary Commission and named William Hannaman, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     businessman, as president. Hannaman then employed agents both to collect funds and
                    supplies throughout Indiana and to make distributions to armies in the field. He appointed permanent
                    resident agents in a dozen different hospital and supply centers to look after the many needs of
                    Indiana soldiers. Less than a year later, in January, 1863, Hannaman made it known that among those
                    needs were more women nurses for hospitals swollen with thousands of soldiers from General
                    Sherman's army.27
            
            Numerous reports from Morton's agents who were on inspection tours in 1862 not only provided
                    bitter indictments of hospital conditions and medical care but also indicated an underlying
                    disposition toward women nurses. Agents found that both physicians and attendants often exhibited
                    "total want of feeling and sympathy for the condition of the sick." Although
                    adequate supplies had been provided to field hospitals set up after the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    , good nurses were still needed. "Convalescent soldiers" assigned as
                    nurses were, according to the reports, "better qualified to make subjects for hospitals
                    than to nurse them." Another of Morton's agents concluded succinctly,
                    "From what I have already seen I think the sick need better attention."28
            
            Beginning in January, 1863, and continuing until the end of the war, the Indiana Sanitary Commission
                    recruited and supported women nurses together with surgeons and agents to look after Indiana
                    soldiers in camps, in hospital centers, and on hospital ships. Some of the volunteer
                    nurses—including Amanda Way of 
                        Winchester
                    , a temperance and women's rights leader—served for several weeks at
                    a time. Accompanying surgeons, they went with hospital steamships on the Mississippi River as far
                    south as 
                        Vicksburg
                     to care for Indiana soldiers on the return journey to northern hospitals. Other nurses
                    volunteered to work for three months at a time in hospitals where the Indiana Sanitary Commission
                    directed them. Many served until the end of the war or until their own health was broken.29 Assignment of nurses, however, was only the 
                  
                     27 Prior to the Civil War, William Hannaman (1806–1880)
                            co-owned a drug business in 
                                Indianapolis
                             with Caleb Scudder. Hannaman and Scudder also built a carding and oil mill and
                            manufactured the first flaxseed oil in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             area. For many years Hannaman was the director of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             branch of the State Bank of Indiana. Officers of Indiana
                                University (
                                Bloomington
                            . Ind., 1951), 264.
                  
                     28 Reports to Morton from J. S. Wilson, James H. Turner, and W. J.
                            Elliott, May 7, June 10, 7, 1862, in Indiana, Documentary Journal
                            (1862–1863), part II. vol. II, 1133, 1178, 1185. For quotations supporting women
                            nurses see notes 41. 42. 43 below.
                  
                     29 For information on Amanda Way see Clifton J. Phillips,
                            "Amanda Way," in Notable American Women, ed. Edward T.
                            James (3 vols., 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971), III. 552–53; and Amanda M. Way. pensioner.
                            Soldier's Certificate 927587. Can No. 19095. Bundle 2, Records of the Record and
                            Pension Office.
               
                    
                    
                  MCPHERSON HOSPITAL
                  
                  VICKSBURG, MISSISSIPPI
                  
                  Reproduced from Holland Thompson, ed., Photographic History of the Civil War in
                                Ten Volumes: Vol. VII. Prisons and Hospitals (
                                New York
                            , 1911). 233.
                first step. "These self sacraficing [sic] women are met at the
                    depot or steamboat landing, and directed to their several fields of usefulness, and are encouraged
                    and sustained in their ministrations of mercy," Hannaman reported. "So far as my
                    knowledge extends," wrote Dr. George O. Jobes, Morton's agent in 
                        Memphis
                    , "there is no other State and no Sanitary Commission except our own, that
                    provides for their free subsistance and transportation to and from the hospitals; and whose agents
                    are instructed to encourage and sustain them, and by all means in their power to contribute toward
                    making their sacrifices of personal comfort as light as possible."30
            
            Despite support from the Indiana Sanitary Commission women nurses placed by Morton's agents
                    sometimes found themselves in an awkward position. One such nurse wrote Hannaman from 
                        Memphis
                    : "The other ladies are appointed by Miss Dix and have commissions from her.
                    The Directors visited our hospital today and inquired by what authority we were here." That
                    Indiana 
                  
                     30 William Hannaman to Morton, December, 1864, in Indiana, Documentary Journal (1864–1865), part II, 299; George O. Jobes
                            to Morton, January 1, 1864, ibid., 327.
               
                     women nurses were able to gain official acceptance was due in
                    large part to the efforts of a woman physician who worked with medical authorities in supervising
                    and supporting them.31 Cloe Annette Buckel, a native of 
                        New York
                     state, was a graduate of the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and had practiced medicine in 
                        New York City
                     with Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell. During the first years of the Civil War, Buckel operated
                    a health clinic for women and children in 
                        Chicago
                    . In February, 1863, she volunteered her services to Morton and joined a group of
                    physicians and nurses sent to establish hospitals in 
                        Memphis
                    . That spring she served on a hospital ship sent to the Yazoo River in Mississippi to
                    care for soldiers stricken with malaria, typhoid fever, and pneumonia. When she, too, became ill,
                    she was forced to return home to rest, but she did not remain up north for long. In July, 1863,
                    Morton gave Buckel responsibility for placing Indiana women nurses in the marine hospital at 
                        Vicksburg
                     and elsewhere as needed. By the end of the year, under the authority of the 
                        United States
                     surgeon general and Dix, she was placing nursing applicants in 
                        Louisville
                     hospitals as well. With the opening of the large modern Jefferson General Hospital in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana, in February, 1864, she then instructed and supervised women nurses for each
                    of the hospital's twenty-two wards. At the same time she supervised Indiana women nurses in 
                        Nashville
                     and 
                  Chattanooga, Tennessee
               , and 
                  Huntsville, Alabama
               .32
            
            Nurses first sent out by the Indiana Sanitary Commisssion, like the soldiers who had rushed to
                    volunteer, had no preparation for the hardships and horrors they met. Some, like the
                    "ministering angels" Bettie Bates encountered in Gallatin, 
                        Tennessee
                    , in February, 1863, gave up and went home after a few weeks, horrified by crowded and
                    unfurnished excuses for hospitals and by physicians who treated them as nuisances. There is
                    overwhelming evidence, however, that Indiana women had the "real `grit' "
                    Bates described as required of successful nurses. "It takes real `grit' to go into
                    one of these houses of suffering," she wrote, "to patiently and cheerfully try to
                    turn everything into the best possible channel, looking straight at the end in view, not a moment at
                    one's self in any way. It is not everybody who has a generous impulse who can be steadily
                    and perseveringly self sacrificing."33
            
            
               
                  31
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 7, 1863.
               
                  32 For information about Cloe Annette Buckel see William Hannaman to
                        Morton, January 2, 1865, in Indiana, Documentary Journal
                        (1864–1865), part II, 79; "Final Report of Officers of the Indiana Sanitary
                        Commission to Governor Morton, 1866," Morton Collection; U. S., Senate Committee on
                        Pensions, "C. Annette Buckel," Senate Report 2325, 58 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                        1903–1904 (serial set 4576); Joan M. Jensen, "Cloe Annette Buckel,"
                        in Notable American Women, I, 265–67.
               
                  33 Bettie Bates to Berry, February 22, 1863, Morton Collection.
            
            
            When Eliza George first asked for a nursing assignment from the Indiana Sanitary Commission in the
                    early winter of 1863, Hannaman discouraged her because of her age. She was fifty-five years old, an
                    age considered risky for the hardships of war. Besides, Hannaman told her, at the moment there were
                    no assignments available for women nurses. She might, however, apply at the offices of the Northwest
                    Sanitary Commission, in 
                        Chicago
                    . George was not discouraged. She brought with her strong recommendations from the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Soldiers' Aid Society, a reputation as a capable home nurse, and like so many
                    other women nurses, strong personal motives. Her daughter's husband, Colonel Sion S. Bass
                    of the 30th Indiana Regiment, had died from wounds received at the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    , injuries that with careful nursing might not have proved fatal.34
            
            In February, 1863, only a few weeks after her first interview with Hannaman, George received word
                    that more women nurses were urgently needed. Leaving her home in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , she first served in 
                        Memphis
                     hospitals where she helped Morton's agent look out for Indiana soldiers.
                    Working with Mary Bickerdyke and Eliza Porter, well-known nurses for the Northwest Sanitary
                    Commission, she established hospitals in Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    , in the fall of 1863 and then at 
                  Pulaski, Tennessee
               , during the
                    winter of 1863–1864. Because supplies were desperately short and railroad lines were cut,
                    she made frequent trips back to Indiana, traveling mountain roads made almost impassable by
                    Confederate patrols and frequent rain and snow. In the spring of 1864, together with 
                        United States
                     Sanitary Commission workers and other Morton agents, George worked on ambulance trains
                    sent out from 
                        Chattanooga
                     to bring back soldiers injured in fighting under Sherman in the 
                        Georgia
                     mountains. All through the summer until the fall of 
                        Atlanta
                     in September, she worked in field hospitals behind the lines, often cooking and caring
                    for thousands of men at a time. On several occasions enemy gunfire barely missed her, and she and
                    other medical workers quickly had to move their tent hospital farther out of range. Curled up in a
                    blanket on the ground at night, she slept within hearing of her patients and the continual drone of
                    black refugees digging and building breastworks for cover. In the winter of 1864–1865,
                    while Confederate General John Bell Hood made a last desperate attempt to regain 
                        Nashville
                    , George worked in 
                        Nashville
                     hospitals. At the end of the war she went to 
                  Wilmington, North
                    Carolina
               , where eleven thousand Union soldiers from Salsbury prison stockade
                    had been transferred. With a small corps of other medical workers she nursed the emaciated patients
                    until 
                  
                     34 For information on Eliza George see relevant citations in notes 7,
                            8, and 11 above.
               
                    
                    
                  CLOE ANNETTE BUCKEL
                  
                  Courtesy Archives & Special Collections on Women in Medicine. Medical College of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . 
                                Philadelphia
                            . 
                                Pennsylvania
                            .
               
                    
                  MARY FRAME MYERS THOMAS
                  
                  Reproduced from 
                                Richmond
                            . Indiana. Evening Item. August 20, 1888.
               
                     her own health was broken by typhoid fever. Despite efforts of a
                    special physician sent by Morton, she died on May 9, almost two-and-one-half years after she had
                    first volunteered, at a time when the nation was simultaneously celebrating military victory and
                    mourning the death of President 
                        Lincoln
                    .35
            
            Like Eliza George, Elenor Ransom of 
                        Dearborn County
                     began her service as a nurse in 
                        Memphis
                     hospitals in February, 1863. Except for short absences caused by her own illness, she
                    served in 
                        Memphis
                     hospitals and on hospital steamships until the fall of 1864. Assigned then to 
                        New Orleans
                    , she was the only woman nurse in December, 1864, to work on board the steamship North America transporting two hundred soldiers to 
                        New York City
                    . As Ransom told the story years later, six days out "just off the coast of 
                        Florida
                    , the steamer was reported leaking forward. Effort was made to stop the leak, but all in
                    vain, and there seemed no hope." Another ship laden with molasses bound for Maine answered
                    their distress signals; but "when she came alongside, the seas were so heavy the vessels
                    collided, and for a time it was hard to tell which vessel would go down first." Rescue
                    boats sent out to the ship were lost in the storm. In all, 194 soldiers drowned.
                    "… they were taken, and I was saved, which
                    for months seemed to me such a mystery… . For weeks this terrible scene was kept fresh in
                    my mind by one and another inquiring for friends."36
            
            Mary J. Watson, a young woman whose husband was with the 70th Indiana Regiment in 
                        Tennessee
                    , left her home in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on January 6, 1863, to serve as a nurse.
            
                    After the battle of Stone River there came a call from Governor Morton for twenty-five nurses,
                        fifty surgeons and ward masters, and a large supply of sanitary goods of every description. I
                        was the second one to put my name on the list of nurses to go to 
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn., to help take care of the sick and wounded in Hospital 14, which was a
                        five-story building, a female seminary; but now full, from basement to attic of sick and wounded
                        soldiers. There were over five hundred there at one time, so I was told. I think it was true,
                        for every bunk was full, and men were lying in the aisle with nothing but their blankets under
                        them, and each waiting for some poor soul to die or be sent away, so he could get a bed. That
                        looks hard, but it is true.
                    
                  
                     35 See notes 7, 8, 11, 34 above. The physician sent to care for George
                            was Dr. William H. Wishard of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Merrill, Soldier of Indiana, II, 792. In George's
                            letter to Susan Man McCulloch, March 15, 1865, she wrote of the urgent need for money with
                            which to buy food and clothing for the emaciated, starving Union soldiers at
                                    
                        Wilmington, North Carolina
                     . She hoped that the McCullochs would
                            "interest our Indiana people at 
                                Washington
                             on their behalf … ." George to Susan Man McCulloch, March
                            15, 1865, McCulloch Papers. For a further description of the work at 
                        Wilmington, North
                                Carolina
                     , see "Mrs. Harriet W. F. Hawley," in
                            Moore, Women of the War, 387–96.
                  
                     36 Holland, Our Army Nurses, 511–14,
                            describes Elenor Ransom's disastrous trip on the hospital ship North
                                America. A more complete record of her nursing is in U. S., Senate Committee on
                            Pensions, Senate Report 1791, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., 1886–1887 (serial set
                        2457).
               
                    
                    I could not go up or down stairs but I would often meet the men nurses carrying some poor fellow
                        to the dead-house. … I remained at the hospital from January until some time in
                        March, when I was taken sick with typhoid fever, and had to leave for awhile. Then Governor
                        Morton and William Hannamann sent me down to 
                            Murfreesboro
                        , Tenn. to nurse in the field hospital in the fort… . When I went my
                        husband was lying at the point of death in the fort… .
                    I drew sanitary supplies for the sick, and did everything in my power for them. I stayed with the
                        brigade until it was ordered to the front to join Sherman in his march to the sea …
                            .37
               
                
            Mary Venard of 
                        Terre Haute
                     was one of fourteen women nurses who left for 
                        Nashville
                     in early February, 1863. "I was then forty-one years of age," she
                    wrote years later.
            
                    I was first sent to 
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn., for three months, but stayed six. Was in the Howard High School Building,
                        and had charge of the Diet Kitchen, but at the same time I did a great deal of
                        nursing… . From 
                            Nashville
                         I returned to my home, where I remained ten weeks; then received strict orders to
                        go immediately to Natchez, Miss. I was in the Marine Hospital and the fort was built up around
                        us. This was the fall after the siege of 
                            Vicksburg
                        , and for days we expected to be attacked, and had everything in readiness to be
                        removed at a moment's notice… . The surgeon in charge proposed that if we
                        were attacked, I should leave immediately with him in the ambulance. His very kind offer I
                        declined, telling him if I had to leave, it would be at the last moment; then I would run down
                        the hill, and, if necessary, defend myself.38
               
                
            In July, 1864, twenty-three-year-old Vesta Swarts of 
                        Auburn
                     tried to join her husband, David J. Swarts, an assistant surgeon with the Indiana 100th
                    Regiment then serving with Sherman's army in 
                        Georgia
                    .
            
                    When I reached 
                            Indianapolis
                         I learned that communication was cut off, and that it would not be possible for me
                        to get through. While hesitating, and wondering what I should do, Governor Morton suggested that
                        I report in person to the Christian Commission agency at 
                            Louisville
                        , Ky., as he thought that Annie Wittenmeyer, who was doing grand work for the
                        soldiers, would find a place in some hospital where my work would be needed. This I decided to
                        do, and in a few days … I began work at B#2 U. S. General Hospital, near 
                            Louisville
                        , Ky.
                    About October of the same year I was transferred to Crittenden U. S. General Hospital, at 
                            Louisville
                        , where I remained until March 27, 1865, when being unfit for duty, on account of
                        poor health, I was honorably discharged and returned to my home.39
               
                
            
               
                  37 Holland, Our Army Nurses, 217–18.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., 255. Appointed by William Hannaman, Mary Venard managed a home for
                        refugees in 
                            Indianapolis
                         during the last year of the war. When it closed in April, 1865, she worked at a
                        home for destitute women and then helped close Camp Morton. Ibid.,
                        254–57; Indiana, Documentary Journal (1864–1865), part
                        II, 79; Mary Venard, pensioner, Soldier's Certificate 854239, Can No. 17525, Bundle No.
                        19, Records of Record and Pension Office.
               
                  39 Holland, Our Army Nurses, 145. Vesta Swarts had
                        served as principal of 
                            Auburn
                         High School at the beginning of the Civil War, but after the war she studied
                        medicine at the 
                            Fort Wayne
                         Medical College, graduating in 1882. She obtained further medical training from the
                        University of Michigan and practiced in 
                            Auburn
                         for more than thirty-two years. Vesta M. Swarts, pensioner, Soldier's
                        Certificate 816645, Can No. 62485, Bundle No. 6, Records of the Record and Pension
                    Office.
            
            
            Dr. Mary Thomas of 
                        Richmond
                    , a pioneer woman physician and champion of women's rights, took supplies for
                    Morton to Indiana soldiers at 
                        Vicksburg
                     in the summer of 1863. En route back to Indiana she had responsibility for nursing
                    fifty of the two hundred wounded and sick soldiers on board the steamship. One of her patients was
                    so crazed and so violent with sunstroke that the officers tried to restrain him. Before they tied
                    him down, Thomas took him in her charge, controlled him, and saw that he was safely forwarded to his
                    home. For the last year of the war Thomas and her physician husband, Owen Thomas, directed a
                    hospital for freed slaves in 
                        Nashville
                    . 
                        Tennessee
                    . Their two daughters served as teachers among the freedmen.40
            
            As indicated in their published reports, Indiana military and medical officials never regretted the
                    Indiana Sanitary Commission's support for women nurses. After an inspection of 
                        Memphis
                     hospitals in October, 1863, a military officer wrote to Morton, "From what I
                    saw, I am satisfied that great advantage to the sick and wounded is derived by having lady nurses in
                    the hospitals, as well as a large saving of sanitary supplies, and I wish to urge this upon our
                    Sanitary Commission."11 Jobes, the 
                        Memphis
                     agent for the Indiana Sanitary Commission, reported in January, 1864: 
                        As auxiliaries in the discharge of the duties of this office, they I women nurses I have
                            rendered me valuable assistance, but, to the sick and wounded soldiers in the wards, their
                            services have been above price. Their delicate skill in the preparation of diets, their
                            watchful attention to the slightest want, their words of sympathy and encouragement, have
                            made the hospitals a home; and, in hundreds of instances, have almost lured the poor
                            sufferer back from death unto life.42
                  
                     In his final report for the Indiana Sanitary Commission in 1866, Hannaman stated that the
                    earlier prejudice against women nurses had greatly disappeared. Praising the service of
                    Indiana's Civil War nurses as he had done for the past three years, he wrote, "No
                    soldier upon the battlefield deserves more credit for bravery; none proved themselves truer
                        patriots."43
            
            Some of Indiana's women nurses were individually rewarded with official praise from
                    supervising surgeons, from the Indiana Sanitary Commission, and later from grateful veterans. Eliza
                    George's 
                        Fort Wayne
                     friends and the Indiana Sanitary Commission 
                  
                     40 Mary Thomas devoted most of the war years to collecting and
                            delivering supplies to military camps, serving as a volunteer nurse, and, as superintendent,
                            directing a hospital for refugees in 
                                Nashville
                            . Florence M. Adkinson, "The `Mother of Women,' "
                            Woman's Journal, September 29, 1888.
                  
                     41 Captain H. B. Hill to Morton, October 27, 1863, in Indiana, Documentary Journal (1864–1865), part I, 311.
                  
                     42 George O. Jobes to William Hannaman, January 1, 1864, ibid., 327.
                  
                     43 "Indiana Sanitary Commission Final Report of Officers,
                            1866," Morton Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  ELIZA GEORGE
                  
                  Reproduced from [Catharine Merrill], Soldier of Indiana in the War for the
                            Union (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866, 1869). II, following 792.
                  Photograph courtesy Peggy Brase Seigel.
               
                     honored her with a statue in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's Lindenwood Cemetery. The services of all Catholic sisters of America were
                    commemorated with a statue in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. The national headquarters of the Women's Relief Corps, the
                    women's auxiliary to the veterans' organization; the Grand Army of the Republic;
                    and the 
                        Terre Haute
                     post of the Grand Army of the Republic recognized Mary Venard's outstanding
                    service. A handful of other women nurses were granted special invalid pensions a few years before
                    American women nurses finally received pension eligibility in 1892.44
            
            Other Indiana women nurses, however, received little tangible reward for their services. Although
                    broken in health from their war experiences, many, including Mary J. Watson of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , were unable to establish the required record of six months of paid hospital service to
                    qualify for the meager twelve-dollar monthly pension. Except in military hospitals their service had
                    been voluntary. Like the unnamed wife of a 27th Indiana Infantry soldier who had tried to nurse her
                    dying husband in 
                        Virginia
                    , other women had to endure years of nightmares after facing the horrors of war. Upon
                    reaching her husband's unit after his death, the wife was imprisoned with other members of
                    his regiment in Libby Prison in 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , and was raped by its director.45
            
            Still, women nurses had shown a heroism equal to that of any soldier. Often given responsibility for
                    preparing food, they established well-regulated hospital kitchens that gave soldiers alternatives to
                    the heavy unhealthy food that was standard military fare. Working side by side with physicians after
                    battles, they cleaned and bandaged wounds and challenged unnecessary amputations. 
                  
                     44 William Hannaman's report of January 2, 1865, names
                            nineteen Indiana women deserving of "especial notice": Mrs. E. E. George,
                            Miss C. A. Buckel, Miss Jeannette Hovey, Mrs. Ransom, Mrs. Brake, Miss Fussell, Miss Hardy,
                            Miss Ross, Miss Miller, Miss Staufer, Miss Venard, Miss Stires, Miss Cahill, Miss Winder,
                            Miss Howe, Miss McCord, Mrs. Rumsey, Miss Hannah Powell, and Miss Asinae Martin. Indiana,
                                Documentary Journal (1864–1865), part II, 79. Indiana women
                            nurses known to have received pensions prior to 1892 are Elenor C. Ransom and Elizabeth
                            Rumsey. Pension files for each are in the National Archives. For further descriptions of
                            their experiences see U. S., Senate Committee on Pensions, Senate Report 1791; and U. S.,
                            Senate Committee on Pensions, Senate Report 1072, 51 Cong., 1 Sess., 1889–1890
                            (serial set 2709).
                  
                     45 Although Mary J. Watson was crippled and "very
                            needy" in her old age, she was refused an invalid pension because she was unable to
                            furnish satisfactory evidence of six months of paid nursing service. The Major Robert
                            Anderson Chapter of the Women's Relief Corps in 
                                Indianapolis
                             helped her by buying medicine. Mary J. Watson, pensioner, Soldier's
                            Certificates No. 1, 138, 371, Can No. 1445, Bundle No. 59, Records of the Record and Pension
                            Office. C. Annette Bucket's responsibilities as a nursing supervisor and her
                            training as a physician did not sway the 
                                United States
                             Senate Committee on Pensions to grant her a monthly pension of twenty-four
                            dollars, the amount paid to a soldier. She was instead granted the twelve-dollar-per-month
                            amount allowed women nurses. U. S., Senate Committee on Pensions, Senate Report 2325. The
                            incident at Libby Prison is described in Green V. Woollen, "A
                            Recollection," War Papers Read before Indiana Commandery, Military
                                Order of the Loyal Legion of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 428–32.
               
                     They cooked soup and prepared coffee in huge vats for soldiers
                    desperately in need of nourishment. They comforted dying soldiers. They wrote letters home. They
                    encouraged and cheered depressed and lonely soldiers. They risked their own health by working in
                    smallpox hospitals and amid malaria and typhoid fever victims. And wherever they could, they cleaned
                    up the filth and stench typical of hospitals in the early part of the war. Moreover, Indiana women
                    had played a strategic role in Governor Morton's aggressive organization to help Indiana
                        soldiers.46 For women whose lives had been sheltered and limited, memories
                    of their nursing service were reward enough. For others, experiences as nurses in the Civil War were
                    stepping stones to new opportunities.
            
               
                  46 In addition to Eliza George, nurses known to have died in service are
                        Hannah Powell and Asinae Martin of 
                            Goshen
                        ; Sisters Fidelis (Bridget Lawler) and Elise (Unity O'Brien) of the Sisters
                        of the Holy Cross; Sister Mary Rose (Margaret O'Don-aghue), Sisters of 
                            Providence
                        . Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion, 443; Jolly, Nuns of the Battlefield, 135, 140, 316.
            
         
         
         
            Governor Thomas Posey: The Son of George 
                        Washington
                    ?
            John Thornton Posey∗
            
            A biographical sketch published in 1906 in the National Cyclopaedia of American
                        Biography opens as follows: 
                        POSEY, Thomas, soldier and last territorial governor of Indiana
                            (1813–16), was born on the Potomac, in 
                                Virginia
                            , July 9, 1750. His mother was Elizabeth Lloyd, of a family of high social
                            standing, but except that little is known of his origin. He is said to have been the natural
                            son of George 
                                Washington
                            .1
                  
                     Such claims or inferences that George 
                        Washington
                     was the father of Indiana Territorial Governor Thomas Posey began to appear in print as
                    early as 1871 and have been repeated in many biographical sketches and newspaper articles as
                    recently as 1984.2 During the first half of the twentieth century at least three
                    leading biographies of George 
                        Washington
                     raised the issue.3 Where did these reports originate, and what, if
                    any, evidence has been produced to support their allegations?
            Posey was a distinguished officer of the American Revolution. After serving as commissary general to
                    Andrew Lewis in the battle of Point Pleasant in Lord Dunmore's Shawnee expedition of 1774,
                    he raised a company of frontiersmen, was commissioned a captain in the 7th Virginia Regiment of the
                    continental line, and participated in the ousting of Dunmore from Gwynn's Island in 1776.
                    Selected as one of eight company commanders in Colonel Daniel Morgan's famed Rifle
                    Regiment, Posey fought in 
                        New Jersey
                     and then in the two battles leading to General John Burgoyne's surrender 
                  
                     ∗ John Thornton Posey is a retired insurance attorney. He
                            is currently working on a biography of his forebear, Governor Thomas Posey.
                  
                     1
                            National Cyclopaedia of American Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1906), XIII, 265.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Commerical, March 28, 1871; Thomas A. McMullen and David Walker. Biographical Directory of American Territorial Governors (
                                Westport
                             Conn., 1984), 152.
                  
                     3 John C. Fitzpatrick, George 
                                    Washington
                                 Himself (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 155; Rupert Hughes, George 
                                    Washington
                                : Vol. II, The Rebel and the 
                                    Patriot
                                , 1762–1777 (
                                New York
                            , 1927), appendix II, "The Poseys," 651–56;
                            Nathaniel Wright Stephenson and Waldo Hilary Dunn, George 
                                    Washington
                                : Vol. I, 1732–1777 (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 269n; see also Louis Martin Sears, George 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 70–71.
               
                     at Saratoga. After commanding the regiment while it was posted
                    between the main army at Valley Forge and the British in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Posey led three rifle companies against Indian-Tory incursions at Cherry Valley and 
                        Wyoming
                     in upstate 
                        New York
                    .4 As a major in General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's elite Light Infantry Corps, Posey was the second field officer over the
                    ramparts at the storming of Stony Point, 
                        New York
                    , in 1779, receiving 
                        Wayne
                    's special, if begrudging, commendation. Eluding capture when most of the
                    Viriginia line under General Benjamin 
                        Lincoln
                     surrendered at 
                        Charleston
                     in 1780, he helped raise a new regiment in western Virginia and participated with it in
                    the siege and surrender of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown. As a lieutenant colonel, Posey in 1782 led a
                    battalion under Wayne in the southern sector, beating off a fierce night attack in hand-to-hand
                    combat with Creek Indians led by Gueristersigo outside Savannah. As brigadier general in the 
                        United States
                     Legion, he again served under his old commander, 
                        Wayne
                    , in the northwest expedition of 1793.5
            
            Posey's civilian record was equally exemplary. After raising a large family in Spotsylvania
                    County, 
                        Virginia
                    , he removed to Kentucky in 1802 and was there elected speaker of the state Senate. He
                    also served as lieutenant governor from 1804 to 1807 and thereafter as major general and commander
                    of the state militia. After moving to Louisiana in 1810, Posey was appointed a 
                        United States
                     senator from that state and served in the Senate in 
                        Washington
                     until 1813, when President James 
                        Madison
                     named him governor of Indiana Territory. After Indiana attained statehood in 1816,
                    Posey served as 
                        United States
                     agent for Indian Affairs in the Illinois Territory until his death in Shawneetown, 
                        Illinois
                    , in 1818. Numbered among his children were a lawyer, a doctor, an educator, a colonel
                    in the 
                        United States
                     Army, merchants, and others who became leaders in their communities.6
            
            During his lifetime Posey made no claim to being the son of 
                        Washington
                    , nor did his family after his death. Posey's own autobiography dismissed his
                    origin and the first nineteen years of his life with these few words: "He was born of
                    respectable parentage near the Potomack in Virginia in the year 1750 9th of July. In the 
                  
                     4 Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register of Officers of
                                the Continental Army during the War of the Revolution. April, 1775. to December.
                            1783 (
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1893), 333–34.
                  
                     5 Posey did not participate in the climactic Battle of Fallen Timbers
                            on August 20, 1794, having taken home leave during the winter of 1793–1794 and
                            resigned his commission on February 28, 1794. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     6 For detailed accounts of Posey's military and civilian
                            record see biographical sketches in William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and
                                Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 21–28; Charles J. Oval, Governors of Indiana
                                Illustrated (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1916). 16–17; Dictionary of American Biography,
                            see under "Posey, Thomas."
               
                     year 1769 being a young man without fortune, but of tolerable
                    english education he set out in quest of a situation in life that would better his fortune, and
                    settled in the back parts of Virginia near the frontiers."7 Two early
                    biographical sketches, which appeared in the Port Folio in 1827 and in Jared
                    Sparks's Library of American Biography in 1846, simply adopted
                    Posey's own phrase, "born of respectable parentage," in referring to his
                    origins. Both sketches were probably written by Judge James E. Hall, husband of Posey's
                    granddaughter, who presumably had access to the governor's papers and surviving family;
                    this fact might have been all that they knew, or at least wanted the world to know, of
                    Posey's ancestry. Hall drew a strikingly vivid word picture of his grandfather-in-law:
                        
                        In his person, General Posey was tall, athletic, and finely formed. His appearance united
                            dignity and gracefulness, and in his manners were blended in a remarkable degree the stately
                            and gallant bearing of a soldier, with the ease and suavity of the polished gentleman. His
                            face was remarkably handsome, his features high, fine and prominent, and if at times they
                            assumed the sternness of command, there was a softness in his fine blue eyes, a spirit and
                            intelligence singled with a calm and benevolent expression which pervaded the whole
                            countenance, that at once attracted the admiration and won the affections of the
                                beholder.8
                  
                     The second sketch added the following meaningful comment, "We should not allude to
                    a subject so apparently unimportant, if it were not that the personal appearance of this
                    distinguished gentleman, both as to form and feature, was so attractive as to be a subject of
                    general remark wherever he was known."9
            
            In 1871, more than fifty years after Posey's death, the first published report linking Posey
                    to George 
                        Washington
                     appeared in the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Daily Commercial. The Commercial's
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     correspondent, in commenting on the oil portrait of Governor Posey that had recently
                    been hung in the Indiana statehouse, flatly stated, "none who are acquainted with the
                    evidence … doubts the assertion that Posey was the son of George 
                        Washington
                    ." Citing no authority or sources, the article related the tale of a couple
                    named 
                  
                     7 This quotation was taken from a manuscript copy of the original
                            document, "A Short Biography of the Life of Governor Thomas Posey," Thomas
                            Posey Collection (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     8 This quotation first appeared in a sketch of Posey that was
                            published by the Port Folio in a series entitled Memoirs of
                                Eminent Persons (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1827). A copy of the sketch was presented to the 
                                Henderson County
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , Historical Society in 1933 and is currently held in the Thomas Posey File (
                                Henderson County
                             Public Library, 
                        Henderson,
                                    Kentucky
                     ). The quotation appears
                            on pages 17–18 of this copy. James E. Hall, who authored the Posey sketch in the
                            Sparks anthology cited in note 9 below, edited the Port Folio from 1816 to
                            1825 and contributed many articles to it. As a grandson-in-law of Posey, it is therefore
                            more than probable that he wrote the sketch published by the Port Folio.
                  
                  
                     9 James E. Hall, "Memoir of Thomas Posey, Major-General, and
                            Governor of Indiana," Library of American Biography, ed. Jared
                            Sparks (
                                Boston
                            , 1846), ser. 2, vol. IX, p. 403.
               
                     Posey who were tenants on 
                        Washington
                    's 
                        Mount Vernon
                     estate. After the husband's death in 1754, 
                        Washington
                     was reported to have been seen frequently visiting the widow's home, and
                    Thomas Posey was said to have been the product of this liaison, which the correspondent stressed had
                    occurred well before 
                        Washington
                    's marriage in 1759.10
            
            This article, widely copied in other journals, apparently raised quite a furor, which prompted the 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspaper to send another correspondent to Indiana to investigate the allegations. In a
                    front-page follow-up story, the second reporter, after extensive interviews in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Corydon (the first state capital), verified that the reported 
                        Washington
                    -Posey tradition had been widely known and accepted by the older generation, especially
                    at "the social gatherings of the old-time lawyers, when riding the rounds of the circuit,
                    at log-rollings and at the farm-house firesides." The resemblance of Governor
                    Posey's son, Colonel Thomas Posey of Corydon, to portraits of 
                        Washington
                     was said to be "so noticeable that a stranger who had never seen him before
                    would observe it; the likeness was so striking as to be absolutely startling …
                    ." Colonel Posey was said at one time to have held letters written to his father by 
                        Washington
                    , who addressed the senior Posey as "My dear Son," but these were
                    reputedly destroyed in a fire shortly after the younger Posey's death in 1863.11 The correspondent, in short, had identified in Indiana in 1871 a widespread
                    oral tradition of the supposed relationship between Posey and 
                        Washington
                     but had produced no documentary evidence either proving or disproving the legend.
                    Curiously, the most obvious flaw in the original article was not even mentioned: Thomas
                    Posey's known birth date in 1750 had preceded by at least four years the alleged affair
                    between the widow Posey and her 
                        Mount Vernon
                     landlord.
            A biographical sketch of Governor Posey published in 1883 referred to the story in the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Daily Commercial as a "romance" that "did not take
                        root."12 Three years later, however, the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Globe-Democrat ran a long feature article by "WBS," datelined 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., detailing a widely held local tradition in Shawneetown, 
                        Illinois
                    , Posey's last home and burial place, that the general was 
                        Washington
                    's son. Sources cited included an old doctor who numbered several members of
                    the Posey family among his patients. The doctor verified that the story was widespread and that it
                    was tacitly acknowledged among the ladies of the family but was never openly discussed by or with
                    the men, who felt it 
                  
                     10 "Was Geo. 
                                Washington
                             a Father?" 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Commercial, March 28, 1871.
                  
                     11 "The Paternity of Governor Posey, of Indiana: A Man Who
                            Looked Wonderfully Like George 
                                Washington
                            ," ibid., April 10, 1871.
                  
                     12 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            28.
               
                    
                    
                  THOMAS POSEY C. 1795
                  Miniature attributed to James Peale.
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE WASHINGTON 1772
                  Portrait by Charles Willson Peale.
                  Courtesy 
                                Washington
                             Custis Lee Collection.
                  
                     
                                Washington
                             and Lee University, 
                        Lexington,
                                    Virginia
                     
                  
               
                     sullied the general's name. The identity of
                    Posey's mother was not speculated upon, but other key elements underlying the story
                    included 
                        Washington
                    's frontier surveying trip in 1749 and his later voyage to 
                        Barbados
                    . The article also cited a claimed similarity between a portrait of 
                        Washington
                     and one of Posey, both done on ivory in miniature by the noted painter James Peale.13
            
            A follow-up story in the same paper ten days later featured a lengthy interview by another
                    correspondent with one George Wilson, a banker of 
                  Lexington, Missouri
               , who was a
                    great-grandson and an avid researcher of General Posey. Wilson stated unequivocally that he had
                    found no support for the paternity claim from his examination of the available evidence after the
                    1871 stories appeared. His own mother, a granddaughter of the general, had disclaimed knowledge of
                    any such family tradition; and Wilson, an amateur artist, questioned the supposed similarity of the
                    two Peale miniatures. He attributed the reported Shawneetown tradition to confusion over the kinship
                    to the 
                        Washington
                     family of some of General Posey's local descendants. This confusion arose
                    through the marriage of Posey's son John to Lucy Frances Thornton, a cousin of George 
                        Washington
                    . Further, Wilson's research had disclosed no evidence that Thomas Posey was
                    born or raised anywhere near 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , although he did find traces of a Posey family's having lived near that
                        estate.14 Surprisingly, within twenty years Wilson was to emerge as a
                    dedicated drumbeater in support of the 
                        Washington
                    -Posey legend.
            Meanwhile, however, other researchers and scholars were taking the story more seriously. An early
                    history of 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana, in identifying the territorial governor in whose honor the county was named,
                    stated, "Tradition tells us that he was a son of George 
                        Washington
                    , born out of wedlock, and several circumstances seem to indicate the probability of
                    such a story being true." The work cited a close physical resemblance between the two men
                    and 
                        Washington
                    's alleged political favoritism toward Posey, including the general's
                    once intervening to prevent a duel that Thomas was about to fight with an unnamed opponent.15 In 1895 
                  
                     13 "The Son of 
                                Washington
                            —Shawneetown's Remarkable Tradition and What It Rests
                            Upon—The Secret of Gen. Thos. Posey's Parentage—His Striking
                            Personal Appearance and Wonderful Career—A Story Which the Early Biographers
                            Ignored," 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily Globe-Democrat, April 11, 1886.
                  
                     14 "The Son of 
                                Washington
                            —Investigating the Tradition Regarding Gen. Thomas Posey's
                            Paternity—The Poseys and the Washingtons—The Pride of Colonial
                            Days—Interview with Gen. Posey's Great Grandson," ibid., April 21, 1886.
                  
                     15 Goodspeed Publishing Co., pubs., History of 
                                    Posey County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 329–30. 
                                Posey County
                             was formed by the Indiana territorial legislature in September, 1814;
                            interestingly, the Ohio River settlement of McFaddin's Bluff
                            was renamed 
                                Mount Vernon
                             two years later although it did not become the county seat of 
                                Posey County
                             until February 12, 1825. Ibid., 339, 377; see also W. P.
                            Leonard, History and Directory of 
                                    Posey County
                                
                      (
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., 1882), 54; Ernest V. Shockley, "County Seats and County Seat
                            Wars in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, X (March, 1914),
                            6–7.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            GOVERNOR THOMAS POSEY'S RESIDENCE AT JEFFERSONVILLE
                     
                        
                  Reproduced from William H. English, Conquest of the Country Northwest of the
                                River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1778–1783 … (12 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1896), Il, 864.
                respected Indiana historian William H. English described Posey as "a man who
                    acted well his part in both war and peace, and about whose life lingers much interesting romance,
                    which will probably never be fully unveiled."16 Sometime before his
                    death on September 6, 1896, Dr. George Brown Goode, the Hoosier-born director of the Smithsonian
                    Institution, apparently drafted a paper entitled "Reasons For Believing That Gen. Thomas
                    Posey Was The Son Of George 
                        Washington
                    ." The manuscript was circulated among scholars and historical researchers in 
                        Washington
                     but was never published and is not among Goode's papers now held by the
                    Smithsonian. Goode's interest in Posey stemmed from his boyhood in New 
                        Albany
                    , which is located near Corydon, and from his father's discussions of the 
                        Washington
                     legend.17 Goode's untimely 
                  
                     16 William H. English, Conquest of the Country Northwest
                                of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1778–1783 … (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1896), II, 865.
                  
                     17 "
                                Washington
                            's Love Affair," 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily Globe-Democrat, October 9, 1898.
               
                     death at age forty-five cut short any further research that he
                    might have conducted on the paternity issue.
            In 1898 the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Daily Globe-Democrat's correspondent, "WBS," reentered
                    the scene with a series of four lengthy biweekly articles entitled "Thomas Posey,
                    Gentleman," "
                        Washington
                    's Love Affair," "
                        Washington
                     and Posey," and "The Posey Romance."18
                    The writer had clearly obtained access to Wilson's research and family documents as well as
                    to Goode's unpublished paper and had closely studied related 
                        Washington
                     manuscripts and papers in the Library of Congress. This series of articles is the
                    single most complete account supporting the claimed 
                        Washington
                     paternity. The unnamed mother in WBS's scenario, described as having died in
                    childbirth, was said to have been of a distinguished Virginia family, and it was to protect her name rather than 
                        Washington
                    's that a lifelong veil of silence was maintained by all who were privy to the
                    facts. One branch of the Posey family, the article reported, was actually considering filing a court
                    action to have its name changed to 
                        Washington
                    .19
            
            It was not until 1905 that the name of Elizabeth Lloyd as the real mother of Thomas Posey appeared in
                    a feature article in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News. Datelined 
                        Vincennes
                    , the article consisted of a long interview with the once-skeptical Wilson, who had now
                    become a true believer in the 
                        Washington
                    -Posey legend. 
                        George Wilson … has found in the archives of the old courthouse here what he
                            regards as conclusive proof that General Posey was the son of George 
                                Washington
                            . Mr. Wilson has spent several interesting years gathering the scattered
                            fragments of his family tree… .
                        … Mr. Wilson has brought together all the facts obtainable developing the
                            beautiful story of 
                                Washington
                             and his first love, Elizabeth Lloyd. They were betrothed, but family objections
                            ran rampant on both sides, because young George 
                                Washington
                             was without means… . His heart was almost broken when the word
                            passed over Fairfax county, 
                                Virginia
                            , that Elizabeth Lloyd was dead.20
                  
                     According to Wilson's script, after Elizabeth Lloyd's death the infant
                    Thomas was taken and subsequently raised by a Hugenot widow Posey, a tenant at 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , described as "a woman of culture and well fitted to care for and teach a
                    motherless boy." It was her home that 
                        Washington
                     frequently visited in the years that followed—but only to see his growing
                    son. Wilson seemed particularly anxious to disassociate Thomas from a nearby family headed by one
                    Captain John Posey who lived on property adjacent to 
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., September 25, October 9, 23, November 6, 1898.
                  
                     19 No record of any such proceeding has been found.
                  
                     20 "General Posey, Son of 
                                Washington
                            ; Conclusion After Search of Records," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 25, 1905. The "proof" found by Wilson was
                            Posey's will which, other than identifying a son Lloyd and a daughter Eliza, lends
                            no apparent support to Wilson's George 
                                Washington
                            -Elizabeth Lloyd account. Will Record A, p. 96, 
                                Knox County
                             Circuit Court, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                        Mount Vernon
                     and whom Wilson appears to have regarded with some disdain.21
                    Regrettably, soon after this interview appeared, Wilson died without having published his research
                    and findings. His influence, however, can clearly be seen in many later biographical articles and
                    sketches that mention the putative 
                        Washington
                     paternity either expressly or inferentially in identifying Elizabeth Lloyd as
                    Posey's mother.22 Two years later, in 1907, a 
                        Milwaukee
                     newspaper, in a feature article on Posey's son-in-law, General Joseph Montfort
                    Street, referred to Street's numerous children as "direct descendants, through
                    their mother, of President George 
                        Washington
                    ." The article identified Street's wife as "Eliza Maria,
                    daughter of Gen. Thomas Posey, a natural son of George 
                        Washington
                    , one of the most faithful and meritorious officers of the Revolution."23
            
            It is doubtful that the authors and publishers of these sketches and articles had any intention of
                    casting aspersions on 
                        Washington
                    's character or reputation. In the president's own time malicious
                    stories of alleged licentious behavior were deliberately circulated by his enemies but were quickly
                    disproved, as were several early claims made by or on behalf of supposed illegitimate offspring.24 The Thomas Posey story, which seems to have had its origins in midwestern
                    folklore and to have become deeply rooted in the area's oral tradition, did not appear in
                    print until seventy-one years after 
                        Washington
                     died and well after the deaths of Posey and all of his children. The story's
                    persistence may be due, in part, to the fact that Posey's character and achievements were
                    everything that might have been expected of an actual son of 
                        Washington
                    .
            After the Posey paternity scenario became widely circulated, formidable scholars sprang to 
                        Washington
                    's defense. In 1927 John C. Fitzpatrick, director of the Library of
                    Congress's Manuscript Division and a leading 
                        Washington
                     expert, published in Scribner's Magazine a rebuttal to this
                    and other such paternity claims. Without once mentioning Posey's
                    name—"it is that of a worthy man, a firm patriot, and an officer of the
                    Continental Army, with an honorable record both during and after the
                    war"—Fitzpatrick discounted 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 25, 1905.
                  
                     22
                            National Cyclopaedia of American Biography, XIII, 265–66; G.
                            Glenn Clift, Governors of 
                                    Kentucky
                                , 1792–1942 (
                                Louisville
                            , 1942), 148–52; John W. Allen, Legends & Lore
                                of Southern 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (Carbondale, Ill., 1963), 5–6; Harriet J. Walker, Revolutionary Soldiers Buried In 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Los Angeles
                            , 1917), 44–45; Wilbur D. Peat, Portraits and Painters
                                of the Governors of Indiana, 1800–1943 (Indiana Historical
                                Society Publications, Vol. XIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1944), 393–94; McMullen and Walker, Biographical
                                Directory of Territorial Governors, 152.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Milwaukee
                            
                            Sentinel, May 15, 1907.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Washington
                            's grandnephew, Colonel John A. Washington, informed Wilson that he had
                            investigated the claims of at least a dozen alleged sons of George 
                                Washington
                             and had found all of them to be fabrications. 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily Globe-Democrat, April 21, 1886.
               
                     the alleged physical resemblance and graphically demonstrated
                    that a letter from 
                        Washington
                     to Posey, seemingly headed "My dear Son," actually read "My
                    dear Sir."25 In a revised 1929 reprint of his Scribner's article, Fitzpatrick cited as "final evidence in
                    rebuttal" a genealogical account of the 
                        Washington
                     family recently acquired by the Library of Congress. This report identified an
                    illegitimate son of Lund 
                        Washington
                    , the president's cousin and farm manager; and, Fitzpatrick stated, it
                    paralleled "with exact detail, geographically and chronologically, the inexcusable charge
                    against George 
                        Washington
                    . … It is entirely evident that this is the fact which was, later, seized
                    upon by ignorant scandalmongers and ascribed, with twittering sensationalism to the Master of 
                        Mount Vernon
                    ."26
            
            According to the account referred to by Fitzpatrick, Lund 
                        Washington
                     "had a son by a young woman who was House Keeper at 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , born about the year 1770, now living near Connallsville in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . His son came to Fairfax County in 1791 to see him. But he being then entirely blind
                    … turned his child away abruptly as an Imposter" and did not name or acknowledge
                    him in his (Lund's) will. This son, using the name John 
                        Washington
                    , was said to have "been recognized as a 
                        Washington
                     from his remarkable likeness to the family."27 While there
                    are clearly some similarities to the 
                        Washington
                    -Posey paternity story, there is a twenty-year disparity in the dates of birth (1750 and
                    1770), and the earliest newspaper and biographical articles on Posey's paternity appeared
                    several decades before the Library of Congress's acquisition of the 
                        Washington
                     family genealogical account.
            In his later biography of 
                        Washington
                    , Fitzpatrick, who had become editor of the 
                        United States
                     Bicentennial Edition of The Writings of George 
                            Washington
                        , again confronted the paternity issue. Stating that Lawrence, John, and Price,
                    three sons of 
                        Washington
                    's neighbor Captain John Posey, had received educational assistance from 
                        Washington
                    , Fitzpatrick deplored "an irony of fate that one of these boys should have
                    been pitched upon by erotic-minded scandalmongers, as evidence of a 
                        Washington
                     philandering."28 Since one of Captain Posey's
                    sons was named John Price,29 it seems plausible 
                  
                     25 John C. Fitzpatrick, "The George 
                                Washington
                             Scandals," Scribner's Magazine, LXXXI
                            (April, 1927), 393–94.
                  
                     26 John C. Fitzpatrick, The George 
                                    Washington
                                 Scandals (
                                Alexandria
                            , Va., 1929), 5.
                  
                     27 Genealogical account, pencil transcription, Container Four,
                            27–32, 
                                Washington
                             Family Papers (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.).
                  
                     28 Fitzpatrick, George 
                                    Washington
                                 Himself, 155.
                  
                     29 John Price Posey was publicly hanged on the gallows in
                                    
                        Richmond, Virginia
                     , on January 25, 1788, after burning down the
                            New 
                                Kent County
                            , 
                                Virginia
                            , jail and clerk's office. Malcolm H. Harris, comp., Old
                                New 
                                    Kent County
                                : Some Account of the Planters, Plantations, and Places in New 
                                    Kent County
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Richmond
                            , 1977), I, 97–99.
               
                     that, in not expressly identifying Thomas as the third son,
                    Fitzpatrick was still seeking to protect Thomas's name from dishonor, as he had done in his
                    earlier article. The same motivation may perhaps explain Fitzpatrick's failure to assert
                    the most compelling rebuttal to the educational assistance issue—the fact that there is
                    no documentary evidence that 
                        Washington
                     actually did help educate Thomas Posey although his favors to St.
                    Lawrence, John Price, and Milly Posey are a matter of record.30 In any event as
                    Fitzpatrick so aptly observed, "George 
                        Washington
                     can hardly be made responsible for the paternity of the entire Posey
                        family."31
            
            Rupert Hughes's trail-blazing biography of 
                        Washington
                     also appeared in 1927, the year of Fitzpatrick's article. Hughes effectively
                    debunked many myths that had been invented by Parson Weems and others and that had tended to
                    dehumanize and deify the real 
                        Washington
                    . Hughes, however, would have no part of the 
                        Washington
                    -Posey gossip. He devoted a lengthy appendix in his book to the Posey family which
                    resided near 
                        Mount Vernon
                     and had this to say about the Thomas Posey story: 
                        This might be the last of [John] Posey except for a tradition that will not down. Captain
                            John had a son, Thomas, who is described as having been six feet, two inches high, with
                            light brown hair and blue eyes, and so powerfully built that he killed several men with his
                            own sword in battles.
                        This striking resemblance to 
                                Washington
                             and the closeness of the families are doubtless to blame for the persistent
                            fable that he was the natural son of 
                                Washington
                            , who would have been only eighteen at the time of the child's birth.
                        A discussion of such a story seems to be justified by the fact that it is whispered
                                everywhere.32
                  
                     Assuming (as did Fitzpatrick) that Captain John Posey's wife, Martha, was
                    Thomas's mother, Hughes cited the close social ties that existed for many years between the 
                        Washington
                     and Posey families, which association would have been unthinkable had 
                        Washington
                     actually fathered one of Martha Posey's children. He concluded:
                    "Rejecting utterly the blight on his name and 
                        Washington
                    's, it may be noted that Thomas Posey had a brilliant life and atoned for his
                    father's [John Posey's] shiftlessness. He was so good a colonel in the Revolution
                    that 
                        Washington
                     put him at the head of the troops nearest the enemy in the lines about Valley 
                  
                     30 George 
                                Washington
                            's Ledger B, Folio 125, George 
                                Washington
                             Papers (Library of Congress); Stanislaus M. Hamilton, Letters to 
                                    Washington
                                 and Accompanying Papers (5 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1898–1902), IV, 65; Charles W. Stetson, 
                        
                                    Washington
                                 and His Neighbors (
                                Richmond
                            , 1956), 143.
                  
                     31 After identifying several youths outside the Posey family who were
                            helped by 
                                Washington
                            , Fitzpatrick caustically commented, "If every child whose education
                            was assisted by 
                                Washington
                             were to be stigmatized, in consequence, as his natural offspring, the
                            distinction of being the Father of His Country might take on a new meaning."
                            Fitzpatrick, "The George 
                                Washington
                             Scandals," Scribner's Magazine, 393.
                  
                     32 Hughes, George 
                                    Washington
                                , Il, 655.
               
                     Forge … ."33
                    Hughes's point, while cogent, would be irrelevant if Thomas had been an adopted or foster
                    child rather than the natural son of Martha Posey. Neither Hughes nor Fitzpatrick considered a
                    scenario casting Elizabeth Lloyd in the mother's role; and the Huguenot widow Posey, either
                    as the natural or foster mother of Thomas, appears to have disappeared from the script by the time
                    these two eminent commentators addressed the issue in the 1920s.
            Despite Fitzpatrick's and Hughes's arguments, elements of the 
                        Washington
                    -Posey connection have continued to surface. As recently as 1941 Dixon Wecter, in The Hero In America, discussed—then discounted—the story.
                    While emphasizing that 
                        Washington
                     loved dancing, cardplaying, horse races, flirting with the ladies, and an occasional
                    ribald joke, Wecter labeled all such paternity claims "canards without the smallest benefit
                    of proof," including a story that 
                        Washington
                     fled to 
                        Barbados
                     because he was in trouble and that "in his absence a neighbor girl bore his
                    child, a boy whose surname was Posey."34 Still more recently, however,
                    the editors of The Papers of Henry 
                            Clay
                        
                described Thomas Posey in a biographical footnote as "reputedly the
                    natural son of George 
                        Washington
                    ."35
            
            Probably no figure in American history has been more exhaustively researched and studied than 
                        Washington
                    ; and, by association, the family of Captain John Posey, who maintained a
                    twenty-five-year personal, social, and financial relationship with the squire of 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , is also well known. It is the consensus of many 
                        Washington
                     scholars, biographers, and genealogists that Governor Thomas Posey was a member of the
                    captain's family. Dr. Joseph M. Toner, whose early transcription and annotation of 
                        Washington
                     manuscripts provided a reliable source for later scholarly research, stated in his
                    annotation of 
                        Washington
                    's diaries, "He [Captain Posey] was the father of Col. Thomas Posey of
                    the Revolution."36 In 1932 William 
                        Campbell
                     Posey, a physician from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , authored an article in which he traced his ancestry to William Posey, described as the
                    youngest child of Captain John and Martha Posey of Fairfax County, 
                        Virginia
                    . Thomas Posey is depicted in the article as the oldest child of this family. Dr.
                    Posey's conclusions were largely based upon research in the Library of Congress by Kate S.
                    Curry, a noted genealogist of 
                        Washington
                    , D. C.37 Fitzpatrick and Hughes, as noted, placed Thomas Posey
                    solidly 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 656.
                  
                     34 Dixon Wecter, "President 
                                Washington
                             and Parson Weems," George 
                                    Washington
                                : A Profile, ed. James Morton Smith (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 21.
                  
                     35 James F. Hopkins, ed., The Papers of Henry 
                                    Clay
                                
                      (9 vols. to date, 
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1959-), I, 138n.
                  
                     36 Joseph M. Toner, "Diary of Col. George 
                                Washington
                             for August, September and October, 1774," Annual Report
                                of the American Historical Society for the Year 1892 (
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1893), 122n.
                  
                     37 Dr. William Churchill Posey, "Posey," Colonial and Revolutionary Families of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                : Genealogical and Personal Memoirs, ed. Wilfred 
                                Jordan
                             (New Series, Vol. IV; 
                                New York
                            , 1932), 494–97.
               
                     within the captain's family, as did Elswyth Thane in
                    her less scholarly, yet charming, Potomac Squire. Nathaniel W. Stephenson and
                    Waldo H. Dunn's George 
                            Washington
                        , Charles W. Stetson's 
                  
                            Washington
                         and His Neighbors, and James T. Flexner's George 
                            Washington
                        
                also accepted Thomas Posey's presence as a sibling in the household
                    of 
                        Washington
                    's neighbor.38
            
            None of these authorities, however, cites mention of Thomas Posey in any writings or public records
                    of the period 1750 to 1769. Curry's voluminous papers and notes, now held by the University
                    of 
                        North Carolina
                     Library in 
                        Chapel Hill
                    , do not, for example, reveal any direct source for her attribution of either Thomas or
                    William to the family of Captain John Posey.39 The 
                        Washington
                     diaries, letters, and ledgers that cover the decades of the 1750s and 1760s contain
                    numerous references to Captain John Posey; his wife, Martha; and their children, John Price, Amelia
                    (Milly), Hanson, and St. Lawrence. Thomas Posey's name does not appear anywhere, not does
                    it appear in any of the captain's letters or in those of other prominent residents of the
                    immediate area—including George 
                        Mason
                    . In addition, no reference to Thomas Posey has been found in the correspondence of 
                        Washington
                    's and John Posey's contemporaries for these two decades.
            Proponents of the 
                        Washington
                    -Posey legend might construe the silence surrounding Thomas Posey's birth and
                    upbringing as a conspiracy perpetrated to protect the reputations of the 
                        Washington
                     and Posey families. The silence would, of course, be equally consistent with
                    Thomas's having belonged to another family or household far removed from 
                        Mount Vernon
                     and its environs—although there is no known record of any other Posey
                    family's having lived "near the Potomack in 
                        Virginia
                    " from 1750 to 1769. 
                        Maryland
                    , where John originated, had many contemporary Posey families; but there is no trace of
                    any such household, other than the captain's, on the Virginia side of the Potomac River
                    valley. Given these circumstances, the authorities' placement of Thomas Posey within the
                    household of 
                        Mount Vernon
                    's Posey neighbor is highly persuasive. Further, it could be considered more
                    than mere coincidence that in 1769, the year that Thomas left home to seek his fortune on the
                    frontier, Captain John Posey (having earlier rejected 
                        Washington
                    's advice to do the same) was forced to sell most of his Fairfax County lands
                    and property at public 
                  
                     38 Elswyth Thane, Potomac Squire (
                                Mount Vernon
                            , Va., 1963), 83; Stephenson and Dunn, George 
                                    Washington
                                , 269n; Stetson, 
                        
                                    Washington
                                 and His Neighbors, 143; James Thomas Flexner, George 
                                    Washington
                                : The Forge of Experience, 1732–1775 (
                                Boston
                            , 1965), 252–53. Flexner mistakenly refers to Captain John Posey as
                            "that prince of scapegraces, Captain Thomas Posey." See also Kate Mason
                            Rowland, The Life of George 
                                    Mason
                                , 1725–1792 … (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1892), I, 118–19.
                  
                     39 Kate S. Curry Papers, folder 854 (Posey folder), Southern
                            Historical Collection (University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Library, 
                        Chapel Hill, North Carolina
                     ).
               
                     auction.40 The chronology of available
                    records, however, raises a serious question as to whether John and Martha were the natural parents
                    of Thomas Posey. The captain's earliest recorded presence in Fairfax County was in 1751 (a
                    year after Thomas's birth) when he received his first appointment as processioner of Truro
                    Parish. Martha was the widow of George Harrison, a substantial Fairfax landholder, who died on March
                    21, 1749. As late as June 26, 1750, just two weeks before Thomas was born, she is referred to in
                    court records as "Martha Harrison, widow and relict of George Harrison." The first
                    record confirming her marriage to John Posey is an indenture deed that she witnessed as
                    "Martha Posey" on June 17, 1752, by which instrument the dying Lawrence 
                        Washington
                     conveyed three lots in 
                        Fredericksburg
                     to his brother George.41
            
            Who, then, was Thomas Posey's mother? In the absence of any relevant birth, marriage, or
                    death records, her identity can only be surmised. Posey family researcher George Wilson was the
                    first to cast Elizabeth Lloyd in that role. Any evidence of that claim—or, indeed, of her
                    very existence—unfortunately died with Wilson. As was true of the Poseys, there were few,
                    if any, Lloyds in Virginia at this time—certainly none of the prominence stipulated in
                    the Wilson scenario.
            Names given by General Thomas Posey to his own children provide some interesting clues. It was an
                    almost unvarying custom of the time to pass along to newborn children the given names or surnames of
                    cherished family members. Thomas's first son was called John—the namesake, it
                    could be assumed, of Captain John Posey; his second son, 
                        Fayette
                    , honored his father's revered commander, the marquis, and was an exception to
                    the rule. Thomas and his wife, Mary Alexander Thornton Posey, called their next son
                    Lloyd—a name not previously found anywhere in the Posey/ Harrison families nor in
                    Mary's Alexander/Thornton ancestry. Their first daughter was named Eliza Maria, arguably
                    derivative tributes to Thomas's wife Mary, and his mother, Elizabeth.42
                    Thomas Posey thus could be said to have held the name Elizabeth Lloyd in high esteem. Did he choose
                    to honor, in this traditional way, a woman of whom he had no personal remembrance and 
                  
                     40 John C. Fitzpatrick, ed., The Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (39 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1931–1944), II, 455–60, 525–27.
                  
                     41 Philip Slaughter, History of Truro Parish in 
                                    Virginia
                                , ed. Edward L. Goodwin (
                                Philadelphia
                             1908), 28–29; Will Book "A," pp.
                            260–62, Fairfax County Court Archives, Judicial Center, Fairfax County, Fairfax, 
                                Virginia
                            ; Court Order Book, 1749, pp. 78–79, Fairfax County Court Archives;
                            W. W. Abbot, ed.. The Papers of George 
                                    Washington
                                , Colonial Series (6 vols. to date, 
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1983-), I, 51–52.
                  
                     42 All of Thomas and Mary Posey's other children bear
                            recognizable family or ancestral names. Thornton and Posey Bible (Historical Foundation of
                            the Presbyterian and Reformed Churches Library, Montreat, 
                                North Carolina
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  Map originally prepared for Donald 
                                Jackson
                             and Dorothy Twohig, eds., The Diaries of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va.: University Press of 
                                Virginia
                            , in sponsorship with the 
                                Mount Vernon
                             Ladies' Association of the Union. 1976–1979). I. 240.
                            Reproduced courtesy University Press of 
                                Virginia
                            .
               
                     whom, for reasons known only to himself, he could not name in
                    his autobiography or otherwise publicly acknowledge? The names Lloyd and Eliza were passed down to
                    grandchildren and beyond; obviously Posey's wife and his children were comfortable with the
                    names and with his explanation of their origin.43
            
            The late James Wade Emison of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, a highly respected genealogical researcher, in earlier editions of his The Emison Families identified General Thomas Posey as the son of Captain John and
                    Martha Posey. In his final edition, however, he amended his listings to show General Thomas Lloyd
                    Posey as the son of Captain John Posey by a first wife, Elizabeth Lloyd, married circa 1749; the
                    captain's second marriage, to Martha Harrison, is then shown as having occurred circa
                        1752.44 In postulating a Posey-Lloyd marriage in 1749, Emison might have
                    been discreetly skirting the possibility that Thomas Posey was illegitimate. Emison comments in a
                    private letter: 
                        This generation doesn't know, a century and more ago, it was bandied about that Gen.
                            Thomas was actually the son of WASHINGTON (by a young LLOYD girl of good family, whom this
                            John Posey married to save the situation. After her death in childbirth or soon after, John
                            Posey married MARTHA (PRICE) HARRISON… . That is why I spent many weeks, months
                            and years, among original records at FAIRFAX CO COURTHOUSE and elsewhere … I had
                            hoped to disprove the above rumor, but ended up the otherway.45
                  
                     Had there been a marriage, arranged or otherwise, between Captain John Posey and Elizabeth
                    Lloyd before Thomas Posey was born, there would seemingly have been no dishonor in Thomas's
                    naming them as his parents in his autobiography. Posey chose instead to use the term "of
                    respectable parentage." The reason for Posey's failure to specify his
                    parents' names in his "Short Biography" remains a matter for speculation,
                    however, since the governor's phrase was commonly used during the eighteenth century,
                    especially in obituaries.
            If Elizabeth Lloyd is hypothesized as Thomas Posey's mother, how does a possible 
                        Washington
                    -Posey paternity scenario fit into known historical fact? Thomas, born on July 9, 1750,
                    must have been conceived between October and December of the prior year. George 
                        Washington
                     was then only seventeen years old—albeit a mature seventeen. He was already
                    the duly licensed public surveyor of Culpeper County, owner of five hundred acres of frontier land
                        
                  
                     43 Governor Posey's oldest son, John, named his first son
                            Thomas Lloyd Posey and his seventh son Lloyd Posey. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     44 James Wade Emison, Jr., The Emison Families,
                            Revised (
                                Vincennes
                            , Ind., 1954), 179; Emison, The Emison Families, Final
                            Supplement (
                                Vincennes
                            , Ind., 1969), 220.
                  
                     45 James Wade Emison, Jr., to James Edwin Cox, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     , February 27, 1957. A carbon copy of the original letter is
                            held by Emison's family in 
                                Vincennes
                            .
               
                     bought with his earnings, and draftsman of a plat of the new
                    town of 
                        Alexandria
                    . His older brother and mentor, Lawrence, who was then owner of 
                        Mount Vernon
                     and who had taken care of George since their father's death in 1743, was at
                    this time away on a visit to 
                        England
                     for his health. In October, after a brief bout with malaria, George was out surveying
                    in Fairfax and adjoining counties. In early November he went to the western frontier to survey some
                    of Lord Fairfax's lands.46 In his field book of this period are copies
                    of three letters, all with a single theme—love. Whether composed as exercises in letter
                    writing, as was a frequent practice of the time, or actually sent to friends from this remote area,
                    they depict an unmistakably smitten young man. 
                  
                     
                        Dear Friend John
                        … was my affections disengaged I might perhaps form some pleasures in the
                                    conversasions of an agreeable young Lady as there['s] one now Lives in the
                                    same house with me but as thats only nourishment to my former Affair for by often
                                    seeing her brings the other into my remembrance where as perhaps was she not often
                                    (unavoidable) presenting herself to my view 1 might in some measure eliviate my
                                    sorrows by hurrying the other in the grave of Oblevion … .47
                        
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Friend Robin
                        … I might was my heart disengag'd pass my time very pleasantly as
                                    theres a very agreeable Young Lady Lives in the same house … but as thats
                                    only adding Fuel to fire it makes me the more uneasy for by often and unavoidably
                                    being in Company with her revives my former Passion for your Low Land Beauty
                                    … .48
                        
                     
                  
                After a ten-day surveying trip in the West, young George returned to eastern 
                        Virginia
                    , the area which, at the time, was called the "low land" and which is
                    today referred to as the Tidewater. On the day of Thomas Posey's birth, Lawrence 
                        Washington
                    , back from 
                        England
                    , was at 
                        Mount Vernon
                     with George, who had just returned from visiting relatives below Fairfax County.
                    Sixteen days later, on July 25, the two brothers left for the warm springs at 
                        Berkeley
                     on the frontier. Their long voyage to 
                        Barbados
                     did not begin until September 28, 1751, more than a year after Thomas was born.49
            
            If Elizabeth Lloyd was the idolized "other" of young George's
                    letters—the famed and (as yet) unidentified "Low Land
                    Beauty"—and if Thomas Posey was arguably the product of her love affair with 
                        Washington
                    , what circumstances might have brought the infant into the household of Captain John
                    Posey? Would Lawrence 
                        Washington
                     and his wife (a Fairfax) have turned to this young new-comer, 
                  
                     46 For a detailed account of 
                                Washington
                            's movements during this period, see Douglas Southall Freeman, George 
                                    Washington
                                , A Biography: Vol. I, Young 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 234–41.
                  
                     47 Abbot, Papers of George 
                                    Washington
                                , Colonial Series, I, 42.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 40–41.
                  
                     49 Freeman, George 
                                    Washington
                                , I, 235–48.
               
                     who had a respectable Maryland pedigree, to save their proud
                    families—as well as that of the unfortunate young mother—the embarrassment
                    arising from George's youthful indiscretion? Such a hypothesis would support either of two
                    possibilities—an arranged, prenatal Posey-Lloyd marriage or a child born out of wedlock,
                    deprived of his mother at or shortly after birth and entrusted to the care and custody of Captain
                    John Posey, possibly around the time of his approaching marriage to the well-regarded and propertied
                    widow, Martha Price Harrison. Either course would have assured the child a good name, a family, and
                    a decent and secure upbringing not far from the watchful eyes of the Washingtons. Such an
                    arrangement, not uncommon in those times, would have preserved the honor and satisfied the duty of
                    all concerned as long as it was never formally recognized or publicly acknowledged. If indeed there
                    was such a pact, it was faithfully observed in all known writings of the Washingtons and the Poseys,
                    including those of Thomas himself in his lifetime and his children thereafter.
            Although it is quite possible that neither of these conjectures is accurate, Captain John Posey was
                    the repeated and, at times, seemingly undeserving recipient of George 
                        Washington
                    's extraordinary generosity and friendship. Posey's Fairfax holdings
                    soon included two hundred acres of prime farmland acquired from George's brother Charles;
                    Posey built a fine house on a bluff overlooking the Potomac and often went fox hunting with 
                        Washington
                    ; and he and his family were frequent guests at 
                        Mount Vernon
                    . 
                        Washington
                    's servants built a large barn and other structures on his land, and the two
                    men served together as vestrymen of Truro Parish.50 Starting in 1755 Posey
                    turned increasingly to 
                        Washington
                     for financial support, and by 1767 his indebtedness had grown to a sizable $pD750, plus
                    a $pD300 bond to George Mason guaranteeing a loan that the captain had wangled from the master of
                    nearby Gunston Hall. In 1769, the year John Posey was forced to put up for public sale most of his
                    land, slaves, livestock, and possessions, largely to satisfy 
                        Washington
                    's claims, Thomas left his birthplace and moved to the western frontier to make
                    his own way in life.51 For another five years, however, 
                        Washington
                     continued to befriend the destitute Captain Posey. He bailed him out of a Maryland
                    debtor's 
                  
                     50 Donald 
                                Jackson
                             and Dorothy Twohig, eds., The Diaries of George 
                                    Washington
                                , in Papers of George 
                                    Washington
                                , ed. W. W. Abbot (6 vols., 
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1976–1979), II, 211, 235–36, 291, 295, passim.
                  
                  
                     51 George 
                                Washington
                            's Ledger A, Folio 256, George 
                                Washington
                             Papers (Library of Congress); 
                                Washington
                            's Ledger B; Hughes, George 
                                    Washington
                                , II, 651–56; Douglas Southall Freeman, George 
                                    Washington
                                , A Biography: Vol. III, Planter and 
                                    Patriot
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1950), 99–100, 184–86, 191–92,
                            230–34, 278–79, 293–94; Thane, Potomac
                            Squire, 53, 55–56, 78–83, 87, 94, 100, 107, 137, 152, 173, 180,
                            187, 193, 195, 199; Stetson, 
                        
                                    Washington
                                 and His Neighbors, 123, 139–44, 147, 158, 301; 
                                Jackson
                             and Twohig, Diaries of George 
                                    Washington
                                , I, II, III, passim.
                  
               
                     prison, took his daughter to live at 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , paid for the education of one of his sons, and helped another get a job as an
                    apprentice, while continuing to welcome him in his home and at his dinner table.52 The improbable bond between the improvident captain and the more frugal colonel seems to
                    have extended beyond the affection that they obviously held for one another.53
                    Yet, in the quarter century of their close relationship, the name of Thomas Posey never once appears
                    in their extended, and often agitated, correspondence. Whether this silence is attributable to some
                    blemish in Thomas's birth—possibly arising from an indiscretion on the part of 
                        Washington
                     or Captain Posey himself—merely to some random historical happenstance, or
                    to the fact that Thomas was never a member of the John Posey household can only be surmised.
            During Thomas Posey's later military and civilian career, his infrequent exchanges of
                    correspondence with 
                        Washington
                     reflect only the formal, arms-length relationship of a revered commander/political
                    leader and a respectful subordinate. Thomas's only recorded visit to 
                        Mount Vernon
                     was shortly after he received his commission as brigadier general in 1793, when
                    President 
                        Washington
                     wrote of "Genl. Posey, who is now with me … ."54 It is interesting to conjecture what words might have passed between the two
                    men as they sat on the back portico of the lovely old mansion looking down in the fading light of
                    dusk at the broad Potomac River below.
            One further point deserves discussion. It is widely believed that 
                        Washington
                     was incapable of fathering children. Often cited is his childless marriage to Martha
                    Dandridge Custis 
                        Washington
                    , whose two Custis children by her first husband were visible proof of her fertility.
                    Those who advanced early, discredited claims of descent from 
                        Washington
                     argued that 
                        Washington
                    's case of smallpox, contracted in 
                        Barbados
                     in 1751–1752, might have rendered him sterile in his mature years but did
                    not rule out youthful indiscretions. There is evidence, however, that 
                        Washington
                     himself, only thirteen years before his death, believed that he was still fully capable
                    of conceiving children. Writing to his nephew about land near 
                        Mount Vernon
                     that he planned to will to him, 
                        Washington
                     discussed the possibility of remarrying if his wife, Martha, predeceased 
                  
                     52 For a detailed account of 
                                Washington
                            's involvement with Captain John Posey and his family, see John
                            Thornton Posey, "The Improvident Ferryman of 
                                Mount Vernon
                            : The Trials of Captain John Posey," Virginia
                            Cavalcade, XXXIX (Summer, 1989), 36–47.
                  
                     53 While 
                                Washington
                             was indeed a patient benefactor and creditor to John Posey, it must be noted
                            that so was he to many of his other neighbors and during the French and Indian War to a
                            couple of his officers. Indeed, some of 
                                Washington
                            's financial problems were linked to his willingness to help people
                            that he liked, as he evidently did Posey.
                  
                     54 Fitzpatrick, Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                , XXXII, 408.
               
                     ceased him. He assured his nephew that, in such event, it was
                    most unlikely that children would result: "for whilst I retain the reasoning faculties I
                    shall never marry a girl; and it is not probable that I should have children by a woman of an age
                    suitable to my own, should I be disposed to enter into a second marriage."55 Thomas Posey's birth in 1750, prior to 
                        Washington
                    's bout with smallpox, could, of course, arguably place him among possible
                    "youthful indiscretions." Obviously, however, the fifty-four-year-old general, in
                    his twenty-seventh year of a childless marriage, still considered himself capable of fathering
                    children.
            If contemporary accounts are to be believed, there do appear to have been some similarities between
                    George 
                        Washington
                     and Thomas Posey aside from any real or perceived physical resemblance. The characters
                    of both were motivated by an almost obsessive sense of public duty and patriotism. Both were largely
                    self-educated, displayed personal courage and leadership in early military careers, and spent their
                    middle years, after marrying well-to-do widows, as gentlemen planters. Both crowned their
                    life's work with distinguished service in public office. Both died at age sixty-seven from
                    similar causes.
            If Posey really was 
                        Washington
                    's son, he probably would have known it, as surely as he knew the place and
                    exact date of his birth. Under those assumed circumstances his apparent reticence to identify or
                    otherwise refer to his family in his autobiography or other writings would have been consistent with
                    what is known of his character. Thomas Posey would have been likely to choose silence over
                    dissimulation in a situation in which he felt himself bound by honor or discretion to withhold the
                    facts as he knew them. As General Robert E. Lee later said of him, "the veracity of Posey
                    was as unquestioned as his courage … ."56
            
            But the burden of proof falls, necessarily and rightly, on the proponents of the alleged 
                        Washington
                    -Posey paternity scenario, and after decades of gossip at Hoosier firesides and log
                    rollings, followed by a century of printed argument and speculation, the evidence at hand simply
                    does not bear out their contentions. Conversely, it must be admitted, nothing definitive has been
                    produced to refute or reject the hypothesis. What emerges is, perhaps, enough circumstantial
                    evidence to make believers only of those 
                  
                     55 Quotation is from Fitzpatrick, Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                , XXIX, 29; see also Douglas Southall Freeman, George 
                                    Washington
                                , A Biography: Vol. VI, 
                        
                                    Patriot
                                 and President (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 63. In reference to 
                                Washington
                            's letter of October 25, 1786, to George Augustine 
                                Washington
                            , Freeman comments, "Needless to say, this letter indicates clearly
                            that 
                                Washington
                             did not think his failure to beget children by Martha was due to sterility on
                            his part." Freeman, George 
                                    Washington
                                , VI, 63n.
                  
                     56 Henry Lee, Memoirs of the War in the Southern
                                Department of the 
                                    United States
                                , ed. Robert E. Lee (new ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1870), 558n.
               
                     who want to believe. Clearly, the true parentage of Governor
                    Posey cannot now, and probably never will, be established with absolute historical certitude.
                    William Wesley Woollen, a respected student of early Indiana history, wrote of Thomas Posey,
                    "Had he been 
                        Washington
                    's son … he would have honored his father's
                        name."57 In fact, Posey, throughout his exemplary life, truly did
                    honor his father's name—whether or not that name was 
                        Washington
                    .
            
               
                  57 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                    28.
            
         
         
         
            A Hoosier Family Moves West, 1868–1895: Part I
            Edited by Rodney O. Davis∗
            
            For at least thirty years Samuel Myers (1809–1878) lived outside Fairbanks, 
                        Sullivan County
                    , Indiana, where he was a tanner, miller, farmer, and something of a community
                        pillar.1 Why he chose to move to western Missouri with two of his sons after
                    the Civil War is not known. He was sixty years old, and with the exception of a crippled youngest
                    son his seven surviving children were grown and self-supporting. He was, to all appearances,
                    financially secure, and a hard-working, careful conservatism was his most obvious personal
                    attribute. The extant Myers family correspondence reveals no particular reason for Samuel's
                    move west so late in life, but a few surrounding circumstances provide some clues. The Civil War
                    years brought great personal sadness to the family. Five of the seven Myers sons joined the 43rd
                    Indiana Infantry during the conflict. William Nelson, Charles, Lewis, and George joined in 1861;
                    Samuel Barnes in 1864.2 Lewis died on October 28, 1863, while with the 43rd at
                            
                  Little Rock, Arkansas
               , leaving a wife and small daughter. John Levi, the only one
                    of Samuel's grown sons who did not enlist, died five 
                  
                     ∗ Rodney O. Davis is professor of history, Knox College,
                                    
                        Galesburg, Illinois
                     . Most of the letters reproduced below are in
                            his possession, and he expresses his great debt to Mrs. Antoinette Davis, who saved many of
                            the letters from destruction, to Mrs. Clella Kelley, who provided photographs and
                            photocopies of the letters in her possession in 
                                Oklahoma
                            , and to Ms. Kellie D. Smith, who also provided photographs. He also wishes to
                            thank Mrs. Laura Busch, Mrs. Jean Loomer, and Mrs. Leona Schoenrock for genealogical
                            information and Professor Douglas Wilson for graphics assistance.
                  
                     1 J. B. Johnson, ed., History of 
                                    Vernon County
                                , 
                                    Missouri
                                
                      … (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1911), II, 935–36; Goodspeed Bros. & Co., pubs., History of Greene and Sullivan Counties, State of Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 493, 510, 702.
                  
                     2 [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General
                                of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866–1869), V, 339–40, 349. This work is hereafter cited
                            as Report of the Adjutant General.
                  
               
                     days later in Fairbanks of unknown causes. The remaining four
                    men served until June, 1865.3
            
            The Myers family may also have grown tired of the bickering, harassment, and resentment that
                    developed in 
                        Sullivan County
                     during the war. The county was particularly well known both for draft resistance and
                    antiwar violence and for occasionally harsh civil and military crackdowns against Copperheads and
                        Butternuts.4 If Samuel wanted to escape possible continued conflict with his
                    neighbors, however, western 
                        Missouri
                    , devastated by guerilla activity during the war, seems a strange location to start
                    afresh. Bitter wartime memories must have been as strong among the remaining old citizens of 
                        Vernon County
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , as in 
                        Sullivan County
                    , but absolutely no mention is made of them in the surviving Myers family
                    correspondence.
            Economic self-betterment cannot have been a primary motive for Samuel's move from 
                        Sullivan County
                    , but it probably was for his footloose war veteran sons who seem to have led the way
                    out of Indiana. Nelson (1838–1927), for example, was buying land in 
                        Vernon County
                     as early as February of 1868, and he was married there during the summer of that
                        year.5 Charles (1844–1924) and Samuel himself were buying land
                    there the next year, and in 1870 Samuel was in turn selling part of his 
                        Vernon County
                     holding to his son Barnes (1848–1925). The relative cheapness of land in
                    Missouri must have been attractive. Although 
                        Vernon County
                     had been settled for thirty years, the Myers men were able to buy for $7.50
                    to $10.00 an acre. Comparable land in 
                        Sullivan County
                     would have cost over twice as much and was already mostly occupied. Furthermore,
                    several of the 
                        Vernon County
                     sellers were absentee, and one of the purchases was at a sheriffs sale.6 Guerilla 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., VIII, 195; U. S., War Department, War of the
                                Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                            Armies … (128 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1880–1901), ser. I, vol. XXII, part 1, pp.
                            468–544. This work is hereafter cited as Official Records.
                            Frederick E. Dyer, A Compendium of the War of the Rebellion (Des Moines,
                            1908), 1136; Leo E. Huff, "The Union Expedition Against 
                                Little Rock
                            , August-September, 1863," Arkansas Historical
                            Quarterly, XXII (Autumn, 1963), 224–37; 
                        
                                    Sullivan County
                                 Cemetery Records (5 vols., Sullivan, Ind., 1983–1985), I,
                            19. Lewis and Levi are the only members of Samuel's immediate clan to be buried in 
                                Sullivan County
                            . By 1883 all had moved further west.
                  
                     4
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 284–90; Emma Lou
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 134, 194, 201; Louise Booth, Waiting for the Moment
                            (Villa Park, Calif., 1983), chaps. III, VII, esp. 41, 81.
                  
                     5 Deed Record "K," 
                                Vernon County
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , pp. 26–26, 497, 
                                Vernon County
                             Courthouse, 
                        Nevada, Missouri
                     ; Nadine Hodges and Mrs. Howard
                            A. Woodruff, comps., "
                                Vernon County
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , Marriage Book `A,' 1855–1869," Missouri Pioneers, County and Genealogical Records (
                                Kansas City
                            , Mo., 1973), XX, 81.
                  
                     6 Deed Record "L," 
                                Vernon County
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , p. 91, 
                                Vernon County
                             Courthouse, 
                        Nevada, Missouri
                     ; Deed Record
                            "P," pp. 187, 194, ibid.; Deed Record
                            "R," p. 89, ibid.; Deed Record "U," p.
                            136, ibid. The Myerses may also have purchased land in Missouri because
                            they were somewhat familiar with it, the 43rd Indiana having served there during the war.
                                Report of the Adjutant General, II, 429–30.
               
                    
                    
                  SAMUEL MYERS 1873
                  Courtesy Rodney O. Davis.
               
                    
                    
                  MARGARET MYERS 1870s
                  Courtesy Clella Kelley.
               
                     warfare had laid waste to much of the county during the war.
                    Although most land had already been cleared or broken, farm buildings and fences had been ruined,
                    and wide areas were simply depopulated. After the Civil War, 
                        Vernon County
                     offered many of the advantages and fewer of the liabilities of new land further west,
                    where the climate was also likely to be drier. Postwar recovery also proved to be quick. The
                    county's first railroad was built into 
                        Nevada
                    , the county seat, in the fall of 1870.7
            
            Of the Myers land buyers, Samuel, his wife, Margaret (1816–1892), and their crippled son, 
                        Milton
                     (1858–1877), apparently made the initial move to 
                        Vernon County
                     along with Nelson and his wife, Lucy, and Barnes. Charles remained in Sullivan with his
                    wife, Isabel (Bell), and their growing family, as did the Myers daughters, Margaret, or Maggie
                    (1852–1943), who married Jacob Harris in the summer of 1869 while her family was
                    preparing to depart, and Mary (1846–1932), who had married John Davis earlier. Of another
                    son, George (1834–1908), much less is known, for no letters to or from him survive
                    although he is occasionally mentioned in the correspondence.
            The Myers family letters were discovered in 1984 in 
                  Newton, Kansas
               , in a family trunk that
                    had belonged to Mary Myers Davis. They were augmented in the spring of 1986 by copies of other
                    letters in the possession of Mrs. Clella Kelley of Ralston, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , a granddaughter of Margaret Myers Harris. The letters were written back and forth
                    between the Myers parents and their children—all of whom eventually left 
                        Sullivan County
                     for such destinations as 
                        Missouri
                    , central and western 
                  Kansas, Nebraska
               , and Oklahoma Territory—and
                    among the children. The women of the extended family were especially sensitive to the loss of
                    physical proximity, and they were very concerned about staying in touch, however frustrated they
                    were about the limits of the written, as opposed to the spoken, word. Twenty-four years are covered
                    by the letters, by the end of which time the family's dispersal was complete.
            In addition to detailing the mundane activities of late nineteenth-century midwestern farm life, the
                    Myers correspondence records instances of rather poignant domestic drama. Almost half the letters
                    are by women and touch on such classic rural and frontier women's concerns as isolation,
                    illness, excessive work, bereavement, and exasperation with spouses. Margaret, Samuel
                    Myers's wife, was especially plagued with homesickness; a move late in life 
                  
                     7
                            Official Records, ser. I, vol. XXII, part 2, pp. 78–82; History of 
                                    Vernon County
                                , 
                                    Missouri
                                
                      … (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1887), 213–361; Richard S. Brownlee, Gray Ghosts of
                                the Confederacy: Guerilla Warfare in the West, 1861–1865 (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1958), 126, 147, passim; Albert Castel, "Order No.
                            11 and the Civil War on the Border," Missouri Historical Review,
                            LVII (July, 1963), 357–68.
               
                    
                    
                  CHARLES MYERS COMPANY D, 43RD INDIANA INFANTRY
                  
                  Courtesy Kellie D. Smith.
               
                     and what amounted to pioneering afterward were obviously very
                    disturbing to her. Her daughter Maggie, however, spoke out even more bitterly about moving, not
                    realizing how much more of it was to come for her. Indeed, although male dominance is seldom
                    questioned by these women, Maggie in this case professed to have had enough of moving; her husband
                    would have to go by himself next time, she declared. 
                        Milton
                     Myers, Samuel and Margaret's crippled youngest son, is author of a dozen of
                    the letters. Before he died at the age of nineteen, he had little to do but read and write, and he
                    sometimes was an amanuensis for his parents. Some of his letters are gems, the ruefully humorous
                    observations of a shrewd youth matured by adversity. Physically hampered as he was, his mind
                    nevertheless ranged much farther than those of his parents or siblings. Environmental and economic
                    problems impinged on these letter writers. The hard times following the Panic of 1873 and the
                    grasshopper plague the next year, both of which affected Samuel Myers, seem to have been repeated by
                    the drought, crop failure, and depression that drove Charlie Myers out of western Kansas seventeen
                    years later.
            A striking aspect of these letters is their reaffirmation of the tendency of westering families to
                    travel in kinship or friendship groups,8 and frontier mobility is also a general
                    and dominant theme. Jake and Maggie Harris relocated four times during the course of these letters,
                    as did Nelson and Lucy Myers. Charles and Bell Myers moved at least three times. When Samuel Myers
                    went west, he moved with two grown and able-bodied sons, and the letters also suggest that other 
                        Sullivan County
                     residents made the trip to 
                        Vernon County
                     at the same time. One of Samuel's daughters and her family were to come on to
                    Missouri from Indiana after Samuel's death. John and Mary Davis migrated to Harvey County, 
                        Kansas
                    , through a connection with a brother of Jacob Harris, also from 
                        Sullivan County
                    , and Charles and Bell Myers seem to have come to the same Kansas area soon after.
                    Indeed these second-generation families were doubly intermarried; Charles and Maggie Myers, brother
                    and sister, were married to Jacob and Isabel Harris, brother and sister. Charles Myers and his
                    family later followed a daughter and her husband to 
                        Nebraska
                    , where most of them remained. The importance of these family ties is revealed not only
                    in efforts to remain in physical contact by moving together but also by rather frequent visits, much
                    exchanging of gifts—even of orchard produce—and correspondence among family
                    members even into the third generation. Though separated by great distance, Samuel Myers's
                    grandchildren were writing to one another very early.
            
               
                  8 See John Mack Faragher, Sugar Creek: Life on the 
                                Illinois
                            
                   (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1986), 150–55.
            
            
            The Myers correspondence contains little in the way of speculation or self-examination on the part of
                    the writers; the letters, in fact, seldom rise above the level of narrative. Rather infrequently is
                    even an opinion ventured. Family health, making a living, and nurturing children were dominant
                    considerations in these Hoosier migrants' lives. Not even spiritual concerns seem to have
                    been terribly important to them. For instance, even as the cancer that was to kill him advanced and
                    as the pain became increasingly difficult to bear, Samuel Myers repeatedly evinced a sadly stoic
                    preoccupation with the everyday world rather than with such things as the inevitability of divine
                    rewards and punishments. Churchgoing was obviously of considerable, albeit occasional, significance,
                    especially to Maggie and Florence Harris, but there is much less evidence that religious faith
                    served as an ongoing influence on life. What is perhaps as important as the content of the
                    correspondence, however, is the distinctive and even delightful voice that is common to several of
                    the writers; their letters provide an expression of Hoosier discourse often perfectly conveyed by
                    the writers' phonetic misspellings. Furthermore, most of the letters are utterly
                    uninhibited; their writers seem to take for granted the existence of like-minded readers. A
                    frankness and directness characterize them all.9
            
            
               
                  9 For many insights into private nineteenth century letters, see Elizabeth
                        Hampsten, Read This Only to Yourself: The Private Writings of Midwestern Women,
                            1880–1910 (Bioomington, 1982).
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo.
                           
                                    May 28th 18711
                           
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        We received your letter of the 25 to day and was glad to hear from you that you are
                                    all well we are all about but not verry well nor verry sick you wanted to know how I
                                    got along a making soap I have not made any yet nor do not know that I shall you say
                                    that every thing looks so well at home that I would want to stay but I have not got
                                    homesick yet I am verry well satisfied yet althow we are not situated verry well yet
                                    thing look verry well you want know about my chickens I have 10 hens and 3 chickens
                                    they do not doo well at all We havent got any cow yet nor do not know as we will get
                                    one or not they are verry scarce and verry dear we have one pig and had hard work to
                                    get it I want you to wright as soon as you get this and let me know how you all are
                                    and how Charles and Bell is and Maggy is and tell them to right to me and I would
                                    like to hear from all of my old neigbors are how Marry Wear is and what has become
                                    of Frank Fordice and doctor Harper
                        
                                    Ma[rgaret] Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada city
                                 
                              
                           
                                    nov the 15th 1871
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        I set down to anser that leter you wrote me Sum 3 month ago wich I neglected to anser
                                    it was not lost as you Suposed we got 
                              
                                 1 In order to allow the correspondents to speak for
                                            themselves, the Myers family letters that follow have been minimally edited.
                                            Spelling, grammar, and syntax have been transcribed exactly as written.
                                            Although an attempt was made to determine the punctuation intended by each
                                            writer, it was virtually impossible to distinguish among commas, periods,
                                            pen rests, and blots. In addition, various family members used seemingly
                                            indiscriminate dashes, ditto marks, and lines of dots both within and at the
                                            end of sentences. Frequently there was no punctuation at all. In order to
                                            facilitate reading and avoid confusion, double spaces have been inserted at
                                            what seemed appropriate places throughout the letters whether or not any
                                            kind of punctuation appeared, and incomprehensible commas, equal signs,
                                            ditto marks, etc., have for the most part been ignored. Decisions concerning
                                            capitalization were also at times necessarily arbitrary, as were decisions
                                            regarding "i's" and
                                            "e's," "o's,"
                                            "u's," and "a's."
                                            Spacing of headings, salutations, and closings and of paragraphs has been
                                            standardized. Obviously unintentional repetitions have been omitted. A
                                            three- or four-dot ellipsis indicates omission of a few words or sentences;
                                            a line of dots indicates omission of one or more paragraphs. What few
                                            lengthy omissions there are have been of seemingly marginal material.
                                            Information crowded in at the top or sides of the letters has usually been
                                            inserted as a postscript. Illegible words or phrases have been so indicated
                                            in brackets, and questionable transcriptions are followed by a bracketed
                                            question mark. An attempt has been made to identify all family
                                            members—and as many other individuals as possible—to
                                            whom there is reference in the letters. Birth and death dates were taken
                                            from family Bibles and cemetery records or inferred from federal census
                                            manuscript records.
                           
                                     your letter of the 9 yesterday and was very glad
                                    to here from you wee are all well Ma and Maggie2 has gon a
                                    viston up to Mises Clicks and Pa and the boys is up to the stable abilden barn and I
                                    am by my Self so I thot I wold write you a leter well Mary hav you a cow you never
                                    said that you had & I wold lik to no our cow has gon nerley dry [five lines
                                    are obscured by a tear] gather corn well Mary Ma Says that She wants you to when you
                                    write to tel her how Ant Annie McKee is and all So Mary Ann Wear Jane Earnest
                                    & Carie Drak is and Rachel & Sary.3 I got a
                                    leter from Emma last weak pa wants to wrte Som So no more at preasant.
                        
                                    Milton Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April the 19 72
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        It is with much pleasure that I sit down to right you a few lines to let you know how
                                    we all are at this time
                        Your Father is well and verry busy now seting out his shrubery
                        
                           
                                        Milton
                                     is well at this time he had a fall that hurt him som but has got over
                                    it
                        Now for my Self I haint verry well I have too much work to do I hav got my soap made
                                    but have not got the house cleand yet and do not know when I will
                        Mary I want you to rite and let me know how you all are and all of the old neighors
                                    are that is left of them
                        Tell Mrs Earnest that I would like to see her very much I think that she might come
                                    out and see us she has not much to keep her at home it would not cost much I want to
                                    hear from Mary Wear and Susy and Carry Drake and Clem and Rachel and Sady and Bell
                                    and Charley and John and Homer4 …
                        
                                    Margaret Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  2 Maggie and Jake Harris had a small daughter, Alice, who died in October,
                        1871, at the age of two. She is buried in 
                            Nevada
                        , apparently having died at the time of this visit of the Harrises to 
                            Missouri
                        .
               
                  3 Drake is a common surname in Fairbanks Township, 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana. Rachel and "Sady" or "Sary" were the
                        widow and daughter of Lewis Myers, who died at 
                            Little Rock
                         with the 43rd Indiana Infantry.
               
                  4 "Clem" is probably Martha Clementine Reynolds, who
                        married Barnes Myers in 1876. Homer Davis was the older son of John and Mary Myers Davis.
                        Frequently mentioned, he was about five years of age when this letter was written.
            
            
            
               MILTON MYERS 1873
               Courtesy Rodney O. Davis
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [1872?]
                                
                        Dear Children
                        I sit down to rite you a few lines in anser to your letter we are all well at this
                                    time we have all had a bad cold this winter I heard of Mary Wears death and was
                                    verry sorry that I will never see her again and aunt Irma [?] too has died and left
                                    us it looks like all of our old friends are dying of and leaveing us behin.
                        Well Mary I want to know how you and family are and Charles and family and Mag is and
                                    if you are coming out to see us ever again I toock [look] every time the cars come
                                    in if any one has come but are disapointed I would like verry mutch to see sone of
                                    you again I would like to hear from George and his children wonce more I send my
                                    love to you all and to my friends also Good by Mary for this time I hope to see you
                                    sometime again …
                        
                                    Your Mother
                                    Margaret Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Dec 22d 1872 M.O.
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        We received your letter of the 13th inst in due time and was glad to hear from you
                                    all we had come to the conclution that you all had concluded to quit writing to us
                                    we are all in good helth at present my helth is better this winter then it has been
                                    for many years 
                                        Milton
                                     can go a little on his Croches when the wether will admit of it Nelson
                                    is Still Complaing Som but has not had a Chill for Some days. The wither is quiet
                                    Cold for the last few days and the snow is about six inches deep. The Bible that you
                                    Spoke of was our family Bible and I left it with George I wish Mr. Drake would let
                                    you have it, as it has our family Record in it. Times is very hard hear money scarce
                                    and produce low in price… .
                        We would like you would write as soon as you git this and let us know how Mrs McKee
                                    is gitting and how the people are jenerlee If you have any Chance to Send by Some
                                    purson Comming out hear Send the catalpha Seed and also I want Some grafts from the
                                    Father Abraham apple tree in the McKee orched and Some of the Fall apple in the
                                    North part of the old garden at Mrs. Drakes & the Hoop apple if you dont
                                    recolect wher the apples git Mary or John they will know they Should not be cutted
                                    you was redy to Send then Cut them and rap them up in a damp wollen cloth with paper
                                    round out side if you dont have a Chance of Sending  by Some purson, I will let you know in time and have
                                    you Send them by Express
                        I have not collect your plow money but as Soon as I do I will Send it Inclosed you
                                    will find a money order for $53.00 payable at 
                                        Terre Haute
                                     which is for your wagon you will have to Identify your Self to Mr.
                                    Bennett unless he is acquainted with you
                        
                                    I remain yours Truly
                                    Saml. Myers
                                
                        (The fall apple I speak of was called Grand mother apples)
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                 
                              
                           
                                    jan the 19th 1873
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        you Said Mother and me had not answered your leter and I thot I wold write to you we
                                    are all well at preasant but we have all had the epizootic very bad or a very bad
                                    coald we have very coald weather at preasant and have had for three weeks and lots
                                    of snow and rain the horses all have the epizootic Nelsons and ourn has it very bad
                                    but we think it will not hurt them much5 Well Mary how do you
                                    get along theas long evenings doent you get lonsum out in the wods I get lonsum
                                    Siting in the hous and wold like to see you and have a big talk with you Mary I saw
                                    in the paper that the folks in Fairbanks has bin cuting each other up with brickbats
                                    and carven kniefs and one thing and another
                        how did this hapen and who is this monk that got carved and is he much hurt and what
                                    have they don with Millard Sharpies and have you burried Mrs Sharpies if not I
                                    suppose you will soon well Mary did you rais some sweet potatoes from the seed Jake
                                    got out here we have had plenty all winter I tel you they are likon I wish you was
                                    out here to get Some Mary how does Jake and Magie get along theas hard tims and what
                                    does Jake do I wold like to see Mags baby6 tel Magy I will write
                                    to her next well Mary how did you like my picture I mus now Stop Mother wants to
                                    write Some
                        
                                    from your nocount Brother, Milton Myers to his Sister,
                                    Mary Davis …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  5 "Epizootic" is a word used rather widely throughout
                        southern Indiana to mean a general ailment or misery. In fact, during the winter of
                        1872–1873 horses in southern Indiana and apparently in Missouri suffered from an
                        epidemic of what was called "the epizootic." See 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Evening Gazette, November-December, 1872, January, 1873.
               
                  6 Mary Florence ("Foncie" or "Ponnie")
                        Harris was Jake's and Maggie's first child to live.
            
            
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    March 29th 1873.
                                
                        Dear daughter
                        We have not heared from you for Some time I thought I would write to you this morning
                                    and let you know how we are gitting a long. I have been Sick but am now a bout
                                    recovered your mother is just gitting over a bad spell of Sick head ake Barns has
                                    been cook yesterday and will have to git Brexfast this morng 
                                        Milton
                                     has been chiling a little but is well again Nelson and Lucy are well
                                    Nelson has been sick all winter has ent been able to do the feeding untel lateley.
                                    Scott Carr is still living with him and will likley stay there this summer we have a
                                    Mr. Shumaker from near Midletown formley, but from Northern Kancis hear he lives in
                                    the Lareell [?] house on the Logan farm has a wife and two Children his wife was a
                                    Thompson hir father use to live East of Fairbanks Shumaker is a Son of H A.
                                    Shoemaker an old acquaintes of ours. We have had a very Cold Spell this week and has
                                    spoilt som things in the garden your acquaintes are all will as far as I know. Our
                                    wheet looks well at presant we have twenty two acres in. times is very hard and
                                    money can not be had for any thing scearcley Well Jacob I expect you need your money
                                    for your plows but I have not been able to pay it my self or I would a sent it to
                                    you and wated on Ne[l]son I sold the plow to Shepley and Ne[l]son was to pay for it
                                    and the one he got of you but he has been sick all winter his Sickness was caused by
                                    an over heat fighting the fire in the fall the fire got in his corn field and come
                                    very near burning him up and he is hard run to keep up he Bought 50 head of Cows and
                                    paid his Crop on them he has about 20 calves he has a good meny patatos to sell and
                                    think they will fetch the money as soon as I git it I will send it. Maga I wish as
                                    soon as you git this letter you would Send me the Catalpae Seeds by male shell them
                                    out of the pods and make a little Square Sack of factory Just large enough to hold
                                    them and sow them up.7 past a piece of paper on the side of the Sack and direct them
                                    to me. I sent John for the Grafts and I have got them but John did not write any
                                    thing with them in the way of an answer to my letter Maga I want you to write as
                                    soon as you can and let us know the News, what is Jake doing, how is Charles and his
                                    famley and all the Connection I have wrote to Charles two litters but he dont write
                                    to us the reason why he dont answer my letters I dont know …
                        
                                    I Remain your truly
                                    Saml. Myers …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  7 "Factory" is another word for unbleached
                    muslin.
            
            
            
               
                        Myers Family Tree
                    
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April the 14th 1873
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        Mary we ricieved your kind and welcom leter night before last and was glad to here
                                    from you and was glad to here that you was well but was sory to here that Magy was
                                    not well Mother Says She [wishes] Magy was out here to our hous so She could take
                                    care of her I doent se why Jake couldnot send her for you say he does not Stay at
                                    home and is peddling8 when She is Sick tel him to send hir it
                                    wold do Magy good and it wold not coest much to bring her out here we do not have
                                    much Sic [torn] is the worst Docter Churchil has it very bad and Mr Cofmen litel
                                    girl has it is all that I no about we had the coeldist wether week before last the
                                    Snow was 8 inches deep and to days and nights we had three hens a siting and onley
                                    had too chickins hatched
                        Mary you wanted to no if we was cuming out to se you this Sumer I am a fraid not we
                                    are like you not got the stamps or we wold we wold like to cum back on avisot if we
                                    had I wold like to se Magys and Rachel litel girls as well as you tel Sary to if she
                                    noes how to write to her oeld Uncel if she haint forgot mee well Mary does Charley
                                    lieve in Fairbanks or does he live in Sulivan tel him to write and Send me Bell and
                                    his boys pictyurr and Mary hav you got Homers pichure takin if you hav I wish you
                                    wold send one to me. how do like the new Story in the ledger9 we
                                    got the money and pa he got the grafts John sent him all rite Barney is at home and
                                    is well [torn] [Sc]ot Carr is Stil Staying at Nelsons I was over their the other
                                    week and Staye thre days Mary I wish you lived cloest here So I could cum and se you
                                    ever week we beat you in the garden line we have Peas Lettys and radishes up and
                                    lots of pie plant [illegible] and goin to have lots more
                        I must Stop Mother Says you must write soon and tell her how Magy is. I must write to
                                    Homer or their will be a fus So good by write Soon
                        
                                    from your Broken bache Brother
                                    Milton
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  8 In the 1880 manuscript federal census for Fairbanks Township, 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana, Jacob Harris's occupation is listed as
                        "huckster." U.S., Tenth Census, 1880, Population Schedules for 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana.
               
                  9 The Ledger to which 
                            Milton
                         frequently refers has not been identified. A letter from Samuel Myers to Jacob and
                        Margaret Harris dated August 9, 1877, refers to a 
                            Nevada
                        
                        Ledger, but it seems unlikely that this newspaper could be the one about which 
                            Milton
                         writes.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 , Missouri
                           
                                    March 27th 1874
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I once more take my old goos quill up to drop you a few lins to let you no that I hav
                                    not forgot my old Sister yet and am in hopes that you will not forget me your ugly
                                    little Brother. I hav not herd from you for so long that I did not no but you had
                        We are all well at the preasant time. I hav been complaining with my back but it is
                                    better
                        we are having a Spell of weather now that is very disagreeble it is cold &
                                    rainy and I hav not got any thing to read and I am awful lonsum. it is to bad to be
                                    out a dors I wish you was here or I was back their. So we could hav a talk and would
                                    not I hav a big time with that Smasher of a boy Magy wrote to me a bout it not long
                                    ago. She Sade it was Awful big. you Said you had named it after me I am not pleased
                                    about it. you wold not name Homer what I wanted you to. but I will get him Sumthing
                                    one of thoes days, a pair of britches or some thing Charls 
                                        Milton
                                     Davis.10 What a name, it ought to be a big boy with
                                    Such a name as that has Charley got him anything yet for his name if I was cloest to
                                    your hous I wold get him lots of thing but I cant the way it is I wish I could
                        Pa is fensing forty Akers of land in front of the hous this Spring he will get it
                                    done in too weeks if nothin hapens Mary where is Sary Myers Pa and me wants to Send
                                    her our pichure but doent no how to go a bout it I want you to write and let us no
                                    how She is &c when did you here from Emma let us no about her also I want
                                    you to write all the News you can think of and tell us of Charley and Bell and all
                                    of the old frends Mother Says that you must not get out of humor with her for not
                                    writing She has So much work to do that when She gets done She doent feel like
                                    writing So I write for her She Says she wold like to hav you to cum to see her this
                                    Sumer if you could for She wold like to see you She Sends her lov to all and her
                                    Compliments to Mrs. Ernest Mrs Susan Debound Mrs Harris and to all other friends
                        Nelson and Lucy is well or Nelson is Lucy is complaining a good deal they hav built
                                    them a citchen to the hous this spring …
                        love to all good By From your little ugly Brother
                        
                                    Milton Myers to his Sister Mary Davis
                                
                        P.S. I am goin to send a receipt for makin preservs out of California Citrus
                                    they the best you ever saw
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  10 Charles 
                            Milton
                         Davis, born in August, 1873, was named for two of his Myers uncles.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July the 18th 1874
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        …
                        I did think I wold not write to you till you wrote to me, but I could not Stand it
                                    any longer. Mary Why doent you write … We are all well
                                    as usel. Nelson has been very Sick but he is well now. he had the infilamation (bad
                                    Speling) of the bowels, he was Sick too weeks, and Magie's litle girl has
                                    the hooping cough, but not very bad.
                        We are having lots of rain now it has rained ever day or So for the last week I See
                                    by the Sullivan paper that you are having quite a dry Spell back their write and let
                                    us no if you hav had rain if you need Some very bad we will Send you Some in a
                                    letter for we hav more than we need
                        Well Mary how is Charls 
                                        Milton
                                     Davis esqr geting along Magie Says it is a whopper She also Says you
                                    talk of cuming to See us this fall if you do let us no the time so we can go to the
                                    Stashion after you I wish you could come and I doent see no reson why you canot then
                                    I wold get to See Charley
                        we will have lots of graps but our blackberys doent amount to much Some peaches anuf
                                    for our one [own] use I wish you could See our graps we hav over 150 bairing vins
                                    and they will hav 15 or 20 pounds of graps each we will hav lots of Sweet potatoes
                                    Father has about 1200 plants out and Barns has Same
                        if you come Homer can get all the Sweet potatoes he can eat and save to take home
                        tell Homer that I was well pleased with his preasants he sent me I will Send him Som
                                    thing if I can find any thing I think will pleas him. I am very much a thank you for
                                    the truck you Sent me for a waist but I doent wair waists now11
                                    it will make me a nice Jacket I wish had Somthing to send you but I hav not
                        Mother Says She is well pleased with her new dress and to tell John that She is much
                                    obliged to him and She Says She is obliged to you for that what do you call it you
                                    Sent her I will do as Homer used to Say I will Save my money and buy you somthing
                                    one of thoes days I must Stop for Magie Says She will write Some good By gieve my
                                    Spectacle to John write Soon tell us how Charley is
                        
                                    from your Brother
                                    Milty Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Well Mary I thought I would write you a fiew lines to let you 
                              
                                 11
                                            
                                                Milton
                                             uses the word "truck" to mean cloth or yard
                                            goods rather than "heterogeneous small articles usually of small
                                            value," which is a more general definition. A
                                            "waist" is a child's undergarment to which other
                                            undergarments can be attached. 
                                                Milton
                                            , who was humpbacked, might possibly have had to wear waists
                                            longer than other children.
                           
                                     no how we are the baby hant very well it has the
                                    dirier very bad and the Hooping cough has taking hir down Consideribal but hir cough
                                    is better now She had the chills last week but I have them broke on hir now we have
                                    a good rain yesterday Mary I hant herd from home since I left, thay think that Jake
                                    would go craisy if I come out here I dont think he is hirting him Self very much or
                                    he would write to no how we was I dont think he will git any more letters. Mary I
                                    want you to write and let me no if any of the children has the Hooping cough if you
                                    see Jake tell him I dont no when I will come home not till I here from him any way
                        
                                    [Maggie]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                  M.O.
                           
                                    Oct 10 1874
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I hav wated, and, wated, for a letter from you, but It does not come. I do wish you
                                    wold write and let me no what is the matter.
                        We are all well except bad colds and we all eat yet. I am in hopes you are able to do
                                    the Same thing, and that Florance is well and geting fat as a little pig.
                        Well Maggie, I am goin to School at 
                                        Nevada
                                    . I hav went one week and I take larning fast. I Study
                                    Spelling—reading—Arithmetic—and geography. Lon is
                                    goin with me—he is up Stairs and I am down our Teacher Says that he will
                                    send me up Stares before the term is out. Oh; I expect to bee of Some consequences
                                    yet. See if I doent Well a nuff of School now for the NEWs first Nelson and Lucie
                                    are gone to Kansas on a look out for a home and do not expect to be back for three
                                    weeks yet. they have been gon too weeks. I got a letter from Lucie last week they
                                    are well, they are at a town cawled 
                                        Wichita
                                    
                        
                        News 2
                        Louisa Foster is no more—She is married to a man by the name of Warrington
                                    he is a farmer about fifty years old I Should guess he has no farm but rents, has
                                    too teams—and is a widdower, but his children is all Married, this
                                    discription is prety well mixed up you will think but I am in a hury for this is
                                    Saturday and I hav lots to do
                        News 3
                        Ady Litle is living with her old man again all right till he gets drunk then She will
                                    run off again
                        Well Maggie I Suppose Mary has give up coming to See us. tell her if She canot come
                                    to write to us and let us no if She has forgot us or not. we hav not got a letter
                                    from Mary for over a year. I want you to tell me all about how Mary homer Charley
                                    and all the others  are—and doent
                                    ferget the little black eyed girl that I like So well, tell us all about her. what
                                    She Says, and, tell her about Uncle Milty the little boy that is gon, you kiss her
                                    for me
                        Well. Well. What will I Say next Well, Maggie we had lots of peaches we hav caned 9
                                    gallons & dryed most too bushels we did not hav one third as meny as we wold
                                    if the grass hoppers had not come12 the grass hoppers come down
                                    So thick that the ground was covered and they eat them (the peaches) up as fast as
                                    they got ripe the hogs and chickens had lots of fun catchen them (the grass hoppers)
                                    and got fat
                        There is very litle wheat Seen on the account of them, they will eat any thing from a
                                    fence rale to a grind stone, they are about all gon now and So is ever thing elce.
                                    Well I will Stop and let you finish for it is not my time I will expect too letters
                                    from you in too days I must Stop to learn my geography lesson for monday Write Soon
                                    and tell us all about all the folks tell me hav you Seen Emma Myers yet what is She
                                    doing where is She hav you Seen Sarah.
                        Good By this time love to all
                        
                                    from your loving Brother
                                    Milty Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    Oct 28th 1872.13
                           
                                
                        Dear daughter
                        I received you kind letter of the 9th inst; and was glad to hear from you but was
                                    very sory to hear that Jacob and Florance have been sick I hope this letter will
                                    find you all well. Maga it will be out of the queston for us to com and make the
                                    visit you speak of this fall. 
                                        Milton
                                     is going to school and if he is able I dont want him to miss a day. I
                                    take him to school in the morning and fetch him back in the evening, we are all well
                                    as common. Times is very hard money scearce and we have nothing to sell. Barns
                                    thrashed his wheet last week he had 426 Bushels it weighs 61 lbs per bushel
                        The Grass hoppers have all left or nearly so they destroyed about half our Peach crop
                                    and eat nearly every thing up. we have plenty of Sweet potatoes but no Irish
                                    potatoes, no corn to amount 
                              
                                 12 In the summer of 1874 grasshoppers swarmed into
                                            Missouri from farther west. They stripped the foliage from trees and ate the
                                            blades of corn; wheat, oats, and grass were devoured. The grasshoppers
                                            covered the floors of houses and filled drawers and cupboards. Worse, they
                                            deposited their eggs for an even more destructive campaign the following
                                            year. Howard L. Conard, Encyclopedia of the History of 
                                                    Missouri
                                                
                                  … (6 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1901), III, 89.
                              
                                 13 Internal evidence strongly suggests that this
                                            letter was written in 1874. Although a two-year discrepancy seems rather
                                            large, it is assumed that Samuel Myers wrote the date incorrectly.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            LUCY MYERS 1870s
                                        
                              Courtesy Clella Kelley.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            NELSON MYERS 1873
                                        
                              Courtesy Clella Kelley.
                           
                                     to any thing, from two to three bushels nubens
                                    [nubbins] to the acre how our horses will git along this winter I dont know to Sum
                                    the whole mater up I have lost my whole Summers work and have nothing to pay my
                                    hired hand with, but there is no use to complain about it. it is so and we can not
                                    help it. There is hundreds of famleys in a wors conditions then we are Give our
                                    respects to all write soon.
                        
                                    So Faireyouwell all
                                    Saml. Myers
                                
                        P.S. 
                                        Milton
                                     is learning fast and is much respected by the School Teachers
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    April 17th 1875
                                
                        To Margaret Harris and famley connections
                        Dear children
                        I received a letter from you (Maga) and one from Mary yours is dated the 2d day of
                                    april & Marys is dated the 4th inst. 
                                        Milton
                                     was quet proud of the present you sent him and hopes he may git able to
                                    return the complement. He is very little better then when I last wrote Some nights
                                    he rest better than he did a month back but cant help himself any better poor fellow
                                    he is nothing but a sceliton Still he talks and is liveley through the day but when
                                    night comes he has no peace cant lay in one posision over 10 or 15 minets unless he
                                    goes to sleep which lasts from 15 minets to an hour his sleep and resting throught
                                    the day is a good eale [good deal] the Same except not so sevear pain as night The
                                    pain is in his neck Sholders and hump as he calls it that is between the Sholders
                                    but no Swelling at eather place we scearceley ever moove him but he hollows with
                                    pain, you perposed use Turpentine we are appling it at presant and it has a good
                                    affect at the time of the sevear spell of Pain but nothing more we will continue it
                                    for a fair triel, all our hopes is worm wether may posible make a change on him when
                                    it comes
                        I am not well my self I have worked hard and lost my rest until I am wore out not
                                    able to scearcley go your mother is in the same fix Mrs Briley dose the washing for
                                    your Mother I hope this letter will find you all injoying good helth nothing more at
                                    presant. We have very cold wether for the time of year the last two nights 15
                                    & 16 ins[t] has been very frosty. Peach trees in full bloom write soon our
                                    best respects to all
                        
                                    Yours Truly
                                    Saml Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 4 1875
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        I once more try to write to you but it is hard work, I have to hold my hed up with
                                    one hand while I write with the other, and this is my first writing prety shakey I
                                    hope though, I will be better Some day. (canot make my pencil mark I will finish
                                    with pen) Mary I have had a hard time, it is Six months Since I have been away from
                                    the house, part of the time I could not Shut my hands or feed my Self. I do not
                                    expect I ever will walk again my leg is drawed up So.
                        I want you to come out to See me this Summer, for do not expect I will be able to
                                    come to See you Nelson and Lucy are talking of coming to see us this fawl. and I
                                    wish you all would be here togather.
                        I want to see the Boys as well as you. Mary you need not be afraid of Starving, we
                                    have Something to eat as well as you. we have had peas and potatoes for three weeks,
                                    and Some beans and beets, and we will have lots of graps Well now about them
                                    Ledgers, Mary you need not Send any more. I have been getting them at town, and can
                                    get them three weeks earlier, which is better thand to wate so long—we
                                        had read all the papers before you Sent them
                        we will Send you Some Weeklys which I like beter than the Ledger. I must Stop, I am
                                    tired, Pa will finish. I Send Love to all the famly
                        
                                    Good By from your Brother
                                    Milton Myers
                                
                        come and we will have fried grasshoppers.
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 , 
                                    Missouri
                                 .
                           
                                    Oct, 21 first [?] 1875
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        I once more, take the opportunity of dropping you a few lines in answer to a letter,
                                    you rote to Pa. his hands is So Sore, that he canot write, So I will write for him.
                                    he has had a Spell of the chills. Since you was here, and after he got them broke,
                                    his blood being out of order, his hands got Sore, his lip is about like it was, when
                                    you was here, my neck is Still on the rise and looks like it would brake pretty Soon
                                    or have to be opened; Mother, and Barney, are both well; and he is busy hailing up
                                    the winter wood I got a letter from Lucy last week She Said that Nelson had a chill,
                                    ever day on the road but had them broke now, they were Six days on the trip
                        
                        
                           MIGRATIONS (WITH APPROXIMATE DATES) OF VARIOUS BRANCHES OF THE
                                            SAMUEL MYERS FAMILY
                           
                        
                        
                        well Mary, I, wish you, and Charley; had Some of our Sweet potatoes. Pa, has been
                                    diging ours, there will be over twenty bushels of them. we will have to keep them
                                    over winter, as there is no Sale for them at this time of the year.
                        Mary I want you to write to me as Soon as you get this, and let us know about the
                                    helth of the connection. and if jim Anderson, is any better the helth here is a
                                    great deal better than it was when you was here but a great many has the chills yet.
                                    the big meeting up to Mr Click's passed of nicely. we didnot go. that is
                                    non but Mother went. She attendid all the time.
                        
                        Mother wants to know how Aunt Polina, Charley, and Maggie, liked the truck She Sent
                                    them, and allso how Rachel and family is geting.
                        Mary we have not Seen any thing of that box you alls was goin to Send us. if you have
                                    not Sent it when you get this, box up Charley, and Send him along, for Grandma has
                                    no one to hurry her up, when She is geting diner.
                        tell Homer he must learn to write. So he can write to me
                        Tell John that if I ever get able to come to Indiana, I expect to thrash him, for not
                                    leting you Stay longer he got Sick just a purpose to get you to come home. how did
                                    Homer like the puzzle I Sent him. has he lerned to put it togather yet. tell Maggie
                                    if her children gets well So I can for her to write to me, or XXXX
                        well Mary I, must Stop, for this time, give my respect to John. tell him not to get
                                    uneasy as I dont expect I will ever come you moest write, Soon and gieve us all the
                                    news.
                        
                                    Good By from your Brother
                                    Milton Myers (the little boy with the big hed)
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Nevada
                                    . 
                                       Missouri
                                    .
                              
                           
                                    
                                        Nov. 25. 1875.
                                    
                                
                        Mornin. to you Magggg
                        I thot being Pa was goin to write that I would write Some two. I was much pleased
                                    with the books you Sent me and only wish there had been more of them. you must tell
                                    Josh that I am much obliged to him and hope Some day to repay his kindness. I liked
                                    the Hoosher School master the best. and I fell in love with Miranda Meanss first
                                        Sight,14 but what under the Sun posesed you to Send that
                                    litle Book. I have been plaging Barney over it. pretending that 
                              
                                 14 Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier
                                                School-Master: A Novel (1871; 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , 1974). Since Eggleston described Mirandy Means, one of the
                                            antagonists in his novel, as "the richest, the ugliest, the
                                            silliest, the coarsest, and most entirely contemptible girl in Flat Creek
                                            district," 
                                                Milton
                                             is obviously indulging his sense of humor. Ibid., 27.
                           
                                     Clem Sent it to him, as a Book of advice. I
                                    think the man that wrote it is a regular fool
                        I am Sory that I did not get the History of Kit Carson I no it is a good Book, if you
                                    can get it you can bring it out with you next Summer. Ma was much pleased with the
                                    things that came in the box. the cap fit her all right the Skirt was a little to
                                    long but it was easly fixed. we got Marys letter telling what was in it before we
                                    got the box. it was at the depot Several days before we new it. well Magg I hope
                                    when you get this you will have the chills broke on Joie15 and
                                    have him as fat as a litle pig. keep little black eyes well and tell popy to buy hir
                                    lots of candy. I hope Jake is making pedling pay for it will pay better than Selling
                                    corn at 20 [?] cts a bus. I must Stop good Bye. write Soon
                        
                                    from 
                                            Milton
                                         Myers to Maggie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March the 12th 1876
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I received your kind letter to day and thot I wold write to you we are all well
                                    except my self I am not very well I hav a pain in my back. I am Some better now I
                                    expect you will be surprised at my writing with a pencil.
                        I got so I could not write with a pen. I doent no how you could read my letters. I
                                    could not my Self.
                        Well Magie I doent expect we will get to com and see you this Sumer but I hope we
                                    will some day for I doent no how we will Stand it much longer their is a baby in the
                                    famly that I hav never Seen
                        I wold like to see all of you and when I get to thinken of you I get !!!!!!! Magie I
                                    wish you could cum to See us this Sumer and stay ever so long. I got a letter from
                                    Wm. Manning16 last month and he talks of cuming to see us this
                                    Sumer you cum with him we will hav about 2000 lbs of graps this year if they doent
                                    get pooris [?] and peaches and lots of other things to eat. and if you cum to See
                                    us! oh woent we hav a buly time Bily Maning is well or was well and just as funy as
                                    ever I hav got Several letters from him
                        you Said there was Snow on the ground and if I was back that you wold wash my face. I
                                    bet you could not do it but I could wash yourn mity quick you wanted to no if I
                                    greased my hair as much as I useto (NO) … . . Barney eats all the Sop up.
                                    Mother aint got much lard left 
                              
                                 15 Joel Harris, Jake's and Maggie's
                                            first son, was born in January, 1875.
                              
                                 16 William Manning was a Myers relative who lived in 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                     Barns is a dredful felow he says for you to tell
                                    Charley if he is cuming to See us to cum Soon and help build fense
                        Father is fensing forty Akers of land in front of the hous and Barney is helping. he
                                    has bought a cuple of horses this Spring. paid $220.00 for them they are
                                    nice. and he is very proud of them I plague him a good deal a bout that good
                                    looeking young Lady you wrote about and we hav a hierd hand and me and him tease
                                    Barns til he is moest mad Magy I am Sory to here that Ponnie has the chills you aut
                                    to hav Dr. Churchel to Docter hir She would get over them Soon I am glad that the
                                    doll pleased her I wold hav got hir one that was nice but I thot you wold like to
                                    hav litle Alie's doll the best17
                        
                        Nelson and Lucy are both well they was here the other day Lucy Sends hir love and
                                    wants you to write they are goin to build a kitchen to ther hous this spring
                        
                                    Good By from your good for nothing Brother
                                    Milton Myers esq.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 , 
                                    Missouri
                                 .
                           
                                    March the 19th 1876
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        I take the opportunity of gieving you a good Scolding for not writing to me. you
                                    write to Pa, and Ma, but you cant write to me. I am geting my back
                                    up Our helth is prety good. Pa complains a good deal with his lip. I am afraid
                                    it gets worse all the time.
                        I am about the Same as when you was here. I have had two, or three, bad Spells this
                                    winter, but am better know I am afraid, I never will get on my legs again, though,
                                    for it has been So long. Well Mary you was right about Barney when you Said he was
                                    goin to Marry Clem, but I never bleaved it till I Saw Clem, we have a joke on him.
                                    he has been Saying that Clem, had taken him to raise, till it is reported all around
                                    that Clem is old enough to be Barney's Mother, and it plagues him like ever
                                    thing.
                        about a week after they com the boy's Shivareed them for about an hour, he
                                    paid no attention to them So they left early.18
                        
                        Mary there must bee Some mistake about you Sending me a book. I never received one,
                                    and Barnes Sayes, you never Sent one by him. Some one is mistaken Shure. Barnes
                                    could think of nothing but Clem. I told him to bring the Ledgers but he come to the
                                        
                              
                                 17 See note 2 above.
                              
                                 18 Barnes and "Clem" Reynolds were
                                            married in January, 1876, in Indiana, but Clem had obviously just arrived in 
                                                Vernon County
                                            .
                           
                                     conclushan that I had read all of them so he did
                                    not bring them. I wish if you have the old ones, that you would Send them to me I
                                    will Send you back the postage and if I ever get any thing new to read I will Send
                                    it to you I get awful lonsum these long days do nothing but whitle and eat. we have
                                    lots of company though, every one has to See Clem, and dont you beleav Barney went a
                                    visiton last Sunday and Stade all day well Mary, how is the wether. we are having
                                    regular winter here. bigest Snow we hav had fell last night last
                                    four days has been very cold. I guess we will pay up, for the good weather we had in
                                    the winter, and I am afraid the fruit will all be kild or injurd
                        I have not herd from Nelce and Lucy for over a month. they were boath well Nelce is
                                    building a new hous.
                        Mary Pa says if John want some whi[t]e brazillian sweet potatoe for seed, that he
                                    will express him a half bushel to 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    , and Jake can get them when he goes to town. when it get warm enough if
                                    John wants them, tell him to write when to Send them.
                        Mary, Barney Says tell John that he has 25 Akers of corn ground plowed and Tell Homer
                                    to Send him his two pigs as he has lots of corn and no hogs. tell Charley to eat
                                    lots of chicken for me and get to be great big man.
                        well Mary I must Stop for this time, write Soon and to me Tell
                                    Maggie to write to me also
                        
                                    Milton Myers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 , 
                                    Missouri
                                 ,
                           
                                    April the 23 1876
                                
                        Dear Sister Mary
                        I once more Set my pen to Scribbling, to inform you that we are all alive, and, am in
                                    hopse that when you get this, you will be the Same. Mother, has had, a Slite attack
                                    of the chills, but has them broke. Pa's lip pains him a great deal and I am
                                    afraid it is a cancer, it is a great deal worse than when you was here, Pa does not
                                    doctor much for it. he is goin to write to John and I will not write any more about
                                    him for he will tell you all about it Well Mary, I received the Ledgers & I
                                    was well pleased and I passed away the time pleasently as long as they lasted and by
                                    that time the others come. I will send you 25 cnts on the postage in this letter and
                                    will send the rest some other time am very much inter-rested in the "lost
                                    Overlanders"
                        Well Mary, I am glad to Say that I a[m] getting a good deal better. am able to ride
                                    around in the bugyyg but I canot Set up  Strate
                                    in a chair yet & I dont Suppose I ever will be able to walk again.
                        I am making you and Mag a Spool sack a piece. Some of you will be out to See us this
                                    Summer (I hope) and I will Send them to you if you dont come and get them your Self
                        Mary, you want to no how many chickens we have, we, have none we Set one hen and the
                                    Skunks eat the eggs all up. So we concluded to catch the Skunks be fore we Set any
                                    more and in the last two weeks we hav caught 7 Seven in a trap, how is that for
                                    Skunk tell John that we have Some pigs thats hard to beat. if they
                                    are onley comen Stock. they are three months old, and will way 100 lbs a piece.
                        I want you to write and tel me if any of you folks is comeing to See us this Summer
                                    if Jake and Mag comes out let Homer come with them. tell Homer we will make him a
                                    cros bow if he comes. I would like to See "you alls" much
                        Clem Sends her best wishes to you and Says She would write to you but She has So many
                                    to write to that She never has time. "(She writes about five letters a
                                    week,) I must bring my letter to a close for I have no more to write. I will put
                                    this in Pa's letter, write Soon and lets here all the news. From Your
                                    Brother
                        
                                    Milton Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada City
                                 
                                 
                                    Missouri
                                 ,
                           
                                    August the 27th 1876
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        I received a letter from you, a long time a go but neglected to answer it untill now.
                        We are all well as comen except my Self. I have been having the hed ake very bad, the
                                    last two weeks. I dont hardly get over one spell till I have an other. Your
                                    Pa's lip is a good deal better. but it is bad enough still in your letter
                                    to Milty you Said that you wanted us to come back with Jake and Mag and Stay all
                                    winter.
                        well Mary, I would like to come back there the best thing in the world, but we cant
                                    do it Milty has grown so heavy that we cant hardly cary him any more and then your
                                    Pa dont think he could come on the account of his lip. but wate till Mag come out
                                    and then we will talk it over. I wish we could come for I no we would enjoy our
                                    Selves. I wish it was posibel that you and Charles Myers could come to se us. but I
                                    suppose you cant. but you must try and let Homer come with Mag if you can
                                    …
                        Well Mary. I dont no what to write that would be of any interest to you. we are
                                    having very dry times here. corn will not be very good will not have much fruit I
                                    have 24 quarts of rasberys and  black berries put
                                    up and some goosberries of last year. I have been canning tomatoes last week, that
                                    is all I have put up yet will have some Grapes, but not many have a quilt up now we
                                    quilted one quilt for Clem and now we ar quilting mine. I have peased me a new quilt
                                    this spring like the one Clem had I espect you have seen it. She calls it the tower
                                    of babel. I wish you was here to help us quilt and we would get done in a hurry
                        When did you se Rachel and Sarah? I would like to here from them the next time you
                                    write. I send my love to boath of them.
                        Clem Says She will write to you and John, Some time Soon. I must Stop I send respects
                                    to all inquiring friends so good By.
                        
                                    Margaret Myers
                                    Milton Myers. Private Secretary …
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Jacob Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    Sept. 21th 1876
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        Barns requested me to write you a fue lines and let know that the Howell place is for
                                    sale and if you want to purches it you can git it at $1200. and perhaps
                                    less there is 80 akers prarie fenced and 40 akers broke and 10 akers timber he will
                                    give the Corn on the place which is about three hundred bushels with the place it
                                    has a good fraim house not plastered which will want some alterations which will
                                    make it comferable. Turms will be five hundred down & the balance in one
                                    & two years. there is a clame against the land of about $190,
                                    that will come out of the two last payments I think you can get time on that clame
                                    it is coming to Mr. Nipp. If you want it or not write as soon as you git this and
                                    let us know. Howell wants to go to Texes and is wating to hear from you
                        Now Jacob how is it about you & famley coming out on a visit We have been
                                    looking for you For the last three weeks and dont hear from you do write as soon as
                                    you git this and let us know when you will likeley be hear dont fall [fail]. we are
                                    all well as common I hope you all are in good helth Nothing more at presant
                        
                                    Yours Truley
                                    Saml. Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis and Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    Oct: 14th 1876
                                
                        Dear children
                        We received your letter of the 7th instent in which you tell us of your bad helth. (I
                                    hope this letter will find you in better helth) 
                                    and further you insist on Ma 
                                        Milton
                                     & my self to com and spend the winter with you I have consulted
                                    the Dr. and he advised me to go if I can do so, & we have concluded this
                                    morning to come just as soon as we can hear from you which will likley be about the
                                    1th of Nov. let us know the time of the week Jake will be at 
                                        Terre Haute
                                     and then we will Start to suet [?] it and let you know We will likley
                                    come a head of the time and give Wm B Manning a call. Now if no Provedential
                                    hendrence occurs we are comming. It is quiet a undertaking for us three to make the
                                    trip two invalids out of three. You perpose to pay our expences if we will come. I
                                    dont like to except such a propisision but I cant help myself at presant. I have
                                    been an invaled for the last year and not made any thing but a heavy Dr. Bill. My
                                    lip is still improving but not well by any means otherwise my helth is good 
                                        Milton
                                     has a bad cold at presant Ma Clem & Barns is well and sends
                                    there respects to you all Now I want you to write as soon as you can So that we can
                                    git there before the wether gits so cold so no more at presant but remain yours
                                    Truly
                        
                                    Saml. Myers Margaret Myers & Milton
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John W. Davis and family]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    March 23d 1877
                                
                        I promised to let you hear from us as soon as we got home. So I now write the facts.
                                    we left 
                                        Terre Haute
                                     Wensday at 10 oclock A.M. arrived all safe at St Louis at 5 oclock P.M.
                                    same day and we layed over there tel 9 oclock which was a delay of 4 hours. we then
                                    left 
                                        St. Louis
                                     and arived at 
                                        Nevada
                                     the next morning at 10 oclock A.M. both will and Barnes was there redy
                                    to take us home. The wether is very pleasant and warm the farmers are plowing for
                                    Corn all around the neighbourhood very little mud hear the season hear is earley by
                                    the side of Fairbanks. Barns & Clem is both well and has things about the
                                    house & yard looking well the house plants are all looking well and in bloom
                                    the Tulip bed looks fine the groth is about six inches hig. peaches &
                                    Cheries are alive and bids fair to be a full crop if not kiled hear after. There is
                                    some sickness hear measels & winter feaver is the complaint mostley. Mrs
                                    Caufman is quiet sick at presant Mother has gon over to see her to day my lip is no
                                    wors then when I started from your house that red spot has sence I left broke and is
                                    runing just like a little boyle but paines me very much but I hope it will not
                                    remain So Long. I have not saw the Dr. yet dont know what he thinks of it. I hope
                                    this letter will find you all well write as soon as is convennant and let us know
                                    how you are gitting a long.
                        Charles when I got home I found in the Seller about a big wheelbarrow load of the
                                    fineest big Apples you ever saw that  Barnes and
                                    Clem had kep for us Wine saps & Jemtons & some Ben Davis. I wish you
                                    & Homer was here to help us eat them. I want you to take care of that
                                    wheelbarrow
                        I must close for this time
                        
                                    I Remain Yours Truly
                                    Saml Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Spring, 1877]19
                           
                                
                        Mary
                        Your mother and Clem milks four cows make lots of Butter. They have the butter
                                    & eggs ingaged in town and your mother goes to market every monday morning
                                    & sells and collects and devides with Clem they have too cows a peace. they
                                    have lots of chickens but how many we dont know they sell a great many eggs git ten
                                    cents a Dozen & 10 cents a lb for butter I try to git a long and not be
                                    discouriaged on acount of my lip but that is very hard for me to do I have allways
                                    been ust to work and it is hard for me to pass my time a way in idleness. and I dont
                                    hear that fermilure whisle and have that company that I have had for so many years
                                    both day and night it is a great change and burdon of mind for me to over come I try
                                    to over com it but is hard for me to so let me gow any place about the house,
                                    garden. stable or orched and I come a cross somthing that calls to mind that 
                                        Milton
                                     is gon and I feel distressed and lost.20 I must
                                    Close and say no more at presant on that Subject. I hope this letter will find you
                                    all well write soon as you can. give our respects to all Charles have you broke your
                                    wheelbarrow yet if you have git it fixed up a little so you can make it go and wheal
                                    it out hear and I will make it all right again. Hommer I am glad to hear that you
                                    are going to chool and I know you will learn fast be a good boy John I wish you
                                    would write me a letter and let me know somthing about the prospects of a corn crop
                                    with you and how your wheet has turned out &c. & Charley you send me
                                    a Pig in the letter or git one by the tale and throw it over to Grand Pa be a good
                                        boy.21 I must Close for this time …
                        
                                    I Remain yours Truly
                                    Saml. Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  19 This letter lacks the usual heading and salutation. Its two pages are
                        headed "3rd" and "4th," indicating perhaps that the initial
                        pages of the letter are missing.
               
                  20
                        
                            Milton
                         Myers died in the spring of 1877, sometime after he and his parents returned from
                        their visit to Indiana. He is buried in 
                            Nevada
                         beside his parents and Alice Harris.
               
                  21 Samuel Myers's affection for Charles 
                            Milton
                         Davis was reciprocated and fondly remembered almost seventy years after this letter
                        was written.
            
            
            [To Jacob and Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  MO.
                           
                                    Aug. 9th, 1877
                                
                        I have Ricd letters from you Marry, Homer & Dohn [John] Davis and have not
                                    answered any of them my reasons for not answering sooner is that I was expecting to
                                    be able to tell you all that my lip or Cancer was better but I have been somewhat
                                    disapointed I dont want you to be alarmed it is not so bad as it was this time last
                                    year the old Sore of the lip is healed up except a Small place in the corner of my
                                    mouth … there is no sore inside of my mouth except it is some inflamed,
                                    but on the out side there is a lump about the size of a large haslenut and as red as
                                    blood and I have a hole in the upper side of it about as large as a large pea in
                                    which I have been applining the Sheep Sorrel and what a punishment I have to indure
                                    no one can tell but my self. I will write again as soon as I can to mary Hommer
                                    & John, we will stop this give other particklers your Ma has had two much to
                                    do and is complaing some Barns & Clem are more then well they are having a
                                    terable time & what do you think has happened them no use you cant gess it
                                    is a Boy Baby is nearly four weeks old weight was 8 lbs he is a
                                    smasher doing well Clem is helping do the work doing fine. Tell aunt Jane
                                    Earnest that she aught to be hear and see Clem nusing the boy his name is James
                                    Earnest Myers22 Maga you wold laff to hear Barns talking to the
                                    boy We had a very wet spring but July has been very dry early corn is hurt we had a
                                    very fine rain on the 6th of Augst, which will help our late corn wheet &
                                    oats was good our caster beans will about be a half crop. Fruit is plenty our apples
                                    & Cherries was som damedgd by a hale storm. Our Peaches is fine they
                                    commence gitting ripe the last week in June So we have been using peaches for the
                                    last five weeks I think we have picked over twenty bushels of Black berries they
                                    only Sold for 25 to 35 C per Gal. we will have more peaches & Grapes then we
                                    will know what to do with. I wish you had some of them. Barns is cutting hay and
                                    delivering to town and I dont do but very little I am making some hay rakes for Mr
                                    Click work when I can Mrs. Saml De Baun is hear on a visit She was at our house
                                    Wensday I hope this letter will find you all in good helth. Tell Poncy &
                                    Jody [?] that Granpa would like to See them and would like if they could git some of
                                    our great big peaches. Give my best respects to Mr. Harris or Grand pa Harris and
                                    the old Lady also and all my inquiring friends May God bless you all so no more at
                                    presant I Remain your affectionate father
                        
                                    Saml Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  22 Barnes's and Clem's son, James Earnest, was born in
                        July of 1877.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    Sept 17th 1877
                                
                        Dear daughter
                        I am now going to try to write you a fue lines, my excuse for not writing sooner is
                                    only because I did not wish to tell you that my lip was no better and part of the
                                    time I have been so tormented with pain both day and night that I could not write I
                                    hope and beleave you will forgive me. Your Mother has had a little Bilous spell was
                                    sick 4 or 5 days but she is a going again drying peaches and working harder then
                                    when you was a girl at home She works hard all day and peaces quilts tel bed time
                                    Barnes and Clem and the baby James are all well the baby has never been sick grows
                                    fast
                        I must say somthing more inreguard to my Cancer. It is more painfull then when I was
                                    at your house the open sore is about the size of a silver dime and about half way
                                    between the Corner of my mouth and the edge of my Chin the sore is not deep but
                                    inflames the inside of my lip so that it gives me trouble about eating or talking
                                    the lump under my Jaw that has increased in size it is about as large as a hens egg
                                    is not sore to the tech but the shooting pains from my lip to my ear goes through
                                    the lump and gives me a great eal of suffering meny nights I dont sleep an hour on
                                    acount of the terable pains. I am still able to go abut and do some work. I have
                                    sold a good many peaches and have taken them down town my self Ma helps me gether
                                    them we have had hundreds of bushels gon to wast will stop for this letter will
                                    write mor to John & Homer
                        
                                    Yours
                                    Saml Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John W. Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [September 17, 1877]
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I now will try and answer your letter. It has been nedglicted a long time I did want
                                    to write sooner but my lip has been very painfull and I did hope that I could in a
                                    few weeks say to you that it was better but I can not do so now it hurts me so bad
                                    now that I can hardley set still long anuf to write or think of wat to write. I am
                                    doing but little I take peaches to town and help geather caster Beens I have a Boy
                                    hired to help in the Beens &c. Barns gave up the Been crop because it rained
                                    so much and I hired hands to how & tend about ten akers of them &
                                    Barns plow up the balance about 15 akers & put in wheet got it in last week
                                    Barns is making hay  & haling his old
                                    corn to town gets 25 cents per bushel has thrashed his wheet had near 200 Bushels
                        The Season has been very wet except July we had no rain which was against early corn
                                    late corn has come out fine and beds fair to make a full crop we had a good rain
                                    yesterday & a nother last night The corn crop will be better then last year
                                    and oats was good Beens & Flax will not be as good as last year on acount of
                                    two much wet wether in May. The fruit Crop is very good we have plenty of apples to
                                    do us and Such a crop of peaches I never saw I am giving away to all that Comes
                                    after them we cant use them and they are roting by the wagon load. I have wished
                                    often that you could only have a 100 bushels of them Mary would dry some and I
                                    expect Charles would eat them I had lots of Peaches that meashered ten inches around
                                    I must stop for this time write again as soon as you can. Yours Truly …
                        
                                    Saml. Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Jacob and Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Nevada M.O.
                           
                                    Oct. 4th 1877
                                
                        I concluded this morning that I must write you a letter and tell you my true
                                    condition of the cancer I am suffering under The famley are all injoying good helth
                                    and I hope this letter will find you all well. I wish we was not so far apart so we
                                    could see one another oftener but it cant be helped now we Still have plenty of
                                    Peaches but they will soon all be gon
                        Now for a plain statement of the cancer. It is no better but wors I had a Dr.
                                    Edmontson from the North part of the state a reglor cancer Dr. come to see me about
                                    three weeks ago, and he gave me but little incouriagement considered it incuriable
                                    and would not take the case I then got Dr. Thornton of Texas a speshel cancer Dr.
                                    has been in the practice for 35 years he examened it very earful and pronounced it a
                                    hopless case but gave me advice to quit Doctern except simple saves and use blood
                                    purifying medison and to take good care of myself but not to spend money in trying
                                    to have it cured that only made it wors and would shorten my days. The cancer on the
                                    lip and chin he said he could cure but it would only make the case wors the tumor
                                    under my jaw was the great trouble it was so closeley attached to the large blood
                                    vessle of the neck that in attempting to take the tumor out there was great danger
                                    in opening the artre and then deth would be the consequence, both of the Drs are
                                    opposed to using the knife or costicks they use remadays that give but little pain I
                                    must stop on this subject
                        The Tumor on my jaw is not a runing sore as that is on my chin or lip but still it is
                                    very painful I have a hard time to git any  sleep
                                    I git up from 2 to 5 times during the night to dress it which gives me ease, I dont
                                    know whether you can read this or not I am in a poor condition to write but shall
                                    try to keep you posted inregard to my afflections. write soon and let me hear from
                                    you and all the friends. Give my best respects to all. I wish Charles would write
                                    and let me know wheather he is comming out to see us or not
                        Mrs Tilitson has been very sick but is recovering slowley I have the ear ake so bad I
                                    can not write any more Ma wants to know if Jody [?] can talk yet or not So no more
                                    at presant I remain your afflicted parent
                        
                                    Saml. Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                 
                              
                           
                                    [Fall, 1877]
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        By the request of your Father it is my painful duty to answer your letter which he
                                    received yesterday and tell you of the sad condition he is in he has been confined
                                    to his room for the last two weeks and to the bed the greater part of the time. that
                                    place that was growing on his Jaw when he was in Indiana kept growing till last week
                                    it broke. and now his neck and throat is swelled so bad and so sore that he can
                                    hardly swallow any thing at all he has two regular Cancer Doctors to visit him
                                    recently and both told him they could do nothing for him. one of them was here and
                                    staid all night with him one night this week, he wants you and Charlie to come see
                                    him if you can. he knows of course Mag cant come.23 and I think
                                    you will have to come soon if you get to see him. Charlie promised when he was there
                                    to come this fall, and since he has been so bad he talks about him all the time.
                                    tell him to come if he can by all means the rest of us are well but your Mother is
                                    nearly worn out. our baby is a big fat boy and a great deal of trouble he is not
                                    very cross but we have all talked to him so much we have spoiled him so he dont want
                                    to be alone any as I have filled my paper will have to stop writing with the hope of
                                    seeing or hearing from you soon I would like to see Mags an Sue's babies so
                                    well. if you cant come write as soon as you get this please excuse bad writing and
                                    all mistakes for I am intirely out of practice
                        
                                    Yours &c
                                    Clem Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  23 Jake's and Maggie's third child to live, Prudence,
                        was born in October, 1877.
            
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Dec th 23 [1877]
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        Your letter of th 18 was received yesterday and we also got one from Mag Just a week
                                    before we were glad to hear from you both. and to hear you were all well. Pa is
                                    apparently about the same that he has been for some time. some days he feels better
                                    than he does others. but he is really no better at any time. he still has chills
                                    about the same way he did when Charlie was here. he had not had one for two or three
                                    days until today. he had one.24
                        
                        I am glad the children all got their present I sent them. we are having very warm
                                    weather and have had for some time. Nels & Lucy are still here. the
                                    Diptheria and Scarlet fever are raging here among the children we are keeping the
                                    Baby at home. but there are so many persons coming to see Pa that we fear it will
                                    carried in clothes. We are as well as usual. I hope that Sadie will be well soon. as
                                    I have written all that I can think of at this time will close this short note
                                    …
                        
                                    Margaret Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John and Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                 . Mo
                           
                                    Mar th 9. 1878
                                
                        Dear John & Mary
                        Your Mother received your letter last friday. and wishes me to answer for her. and
                                    suppose I must try to do so. We are all as well as usual I believe and are having
                                    very warm nice weather with the exception of an (occasional rain) which makes a
                                    little mud but that soon dries up here. The Peach trees will be in bloom in a few
                                    days if it stays warm. but I think it is entirely too early and fear we will not
                                    have any peaches this year. Your Mother is getting along with the business very
                                    well. thinks she will get it settled up without any trouble. she made a sale of the
                                    property about three weeks ago. some thing brought all they were really worth while
                                    others as a matter of course sold very low. Nels & Lucy started home two
                                    weeks ago last thursday. we have not heard from since they got home. they wrote from
                                    Humboldt Kansas and said they had to hire a man at Fort Scott to help them through.
                                    but the roads were getting better then and thought they would have no more trouble.
                                        
                              
                                 24 Samuel Myers died of his cancer on January 17,
                                            1878. His widow, Margaret, seems to have taken on the settlement of his
                                            affairs herself.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            SAMUEL MYERS'S
                                                    FUNERAL NOTICE 1878
                                        
                              Courtesy Rodney O. Davis
                           
                                     John I must admit that I was very much surprised
                                    to hear that you had joined Church. I rec'd a letter from Sue before we got
                                    yours. telling me about it. I hope you will all be benefited by it. We have had
                                    protracted meetings all us this winter but I have not attended any for I dont get
                                    out any place. I find but very little to go and if I had the time Barnes's
                                    horses are so wild that I am afraid of them. and it is too far for me to walk even
                                    to a neighbors. The Babtists are holding forth in Town now. your mother was down
                                    last week and staid three days & nights attending and visiting the members.
                                    Tell Chrlie that our boy is almost as large as he is. has four teeth and is
                                    beginning to try to talk I expect he can make as much noise as he can. and sits at
                                    the table in his high chair as large as you please John if there has been any maple
                                    sugar made there this spring we would like to get 100 lbs if it can be bought
                                    reasonable. we dont want to pay more than 10 cts per pound, and if you could get for
                                    less please do so. but will pay that much. Barnes says if you havnt the money to
                                    spare just now to pay for it. to please write soon and he will send it. and if you
                                    buy and send it right away he will pay all expense when it comes. if you get it you
                                    can go to Jane's and get the trunk I left there and if it has been
                                    destroyed tell Jim he must furnish a box. Charlie promised to get it and send it.
                                    But as his Mother got a letter from him the other day and he said nothing about it
                                    we are afraid he has forgotten it. With love to all I must stop writing for this
                                    time. Excuse all mistakes and bad writing for I am entirely out of practice. Write
                                    soon
                        
                                    Clem
                                
                        Mary your Mother wants you when you write to give the names of all the persons
                                    that joined Church Sue gave a few but she wants to know all of them please answer
                                    soon
                     
                  
               
                
            [To Mary Myers Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Spring, 1878]
                                
                        Dear Mary
                        I thoght that I would drp you a few lines to let you know that I am well at this time
                                    I received Mags letter with the news from your Church and was glad to hear of John
                                    Converson I hope he will hold out faithfull and was glad to hear of Charles and
                                    Bells converseon I hope they may hold out faithfull Mary a word. you know John have
                                    patience with him and do all you can to help him to hold out faithfull. tell him I
                                    feel glad that has determend to do right
                        
                                    Margaret Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [To Mary Myers Davis and children]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Missourie
                           
                                    May th 19 7925
                           
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        I set down to answer your letter I received a good while ago we are all well at this
                                    time have not ben very well all Spring have had A great deal of rain hear Barney has
                                    some corn planted I am a going to wright and tell you how your Father left his
                                    bisnss he made A will before 
                                        Milton
                                     Died he left all to me to support him his lifetime and if he died
                                    before I did it was mine to do with as I pleased after the deats was paid I made a
                                    sale and sold of the stock horses and wagon and farming implements and when the
                                    notes air paid I think there will bee enough to pay all I do not know yeat I have
                                    paid some of them now it will tak all I will have the rent of the place to live on
                                    that will keep me
                        I wish I could come in but I cannot I would like if some of you could come out there
                                    will bee peaches but no apples no more at this time
                        Margaret Myers
                        Now for Homer and Charles I suppose Homer is helping his father farm this summer and
                                    Charley is helping you rais chickens Jimmey hasent got any pigs but has got four
                                    caffes [?] he can crall all over the house
                        how I wish I could see all of the children and Mags new baby
                        Tell John Clem says that she will answer his letter sometime soon wright soon and
                                    tell us all of the news tell Mag I am waiting for that letter she promised me
                        
                                    Love to all the Family and friends
                                    Your Mother
                                
                        excuse bad wrighting for I have been picking goosberries and my hands is sour
                                    [sore] and it is night
                     
                  
               
                
            [To John Davis]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                  Mo
                           
                                    June th 16 [1878]
                                
                        Well John I suppose you think that I am never going to answer your letter. for it has
                                    been some time since I received it. and I have been trying to answer ever since but
                                    just as sure as I would get ready to write some one would come. or something happen
                                    to prevent me. so I think I will try it tonight by lamp light
                        
                           
                              25 Although this letter is apparently dated 1879, internal
                                        evidence places it more probably in 1878. Again, the misdating cannot be
                                        explained.
                        
                        
                        Barnes and his Mother are neither one very well but are able to go round and I have
                                    the (blues) a little occasionally it does nothing but rain here all the time and the
                                    prospect for corn is decidedly very poor Barnes planted his first about the fist of
                                    last month and it commenced raining and did not stop more than two days at a time
                                    for four weeks the consequence was it did not come up. and as soon he could get in
                                    with the planter he planted all over. it is just now coming up. and will not be
                                    anything extra of a stand, but he is not going to plant any more think perhaps if it
                                    ever gets dry enough for him to plow it make something. some few of the farmers got
                                    planting done very early and have got it plowed over and it is looking fine. and
                                    there are others that have not planted any yet. and some have planted as often as
                                    three times before they had it to come up
                        the wheat is all getting ripe and they cant get in it with machines. Barnes bought a
                                    Cradle yesterday and commenced on his. and thought that he could get in by tomorrow
                                    with the harvester if it did not rain any more, but it is pouring down now. I think
                                    it has set in for a steady nights rain the crop here is generally pretty good if it
                                    can only be taken care of
                        We received a letter from Nels last week he says his corn looks fine and he has forty
                                    Acres of wheat that will make 25 bushels per Acre
                        We had a terrible wind storm here last thursday week. but it did not do any very
                                    serious damage blew (the white house) over the hen house and buggy shed all over and
                                    broke down a great many trees in the yard and orchard and all the fence on the place
                                    Just the week before we had one that struck a house about a mile and a half from
                                    here and unroofed it lifted of the foundation and blew nearly every thing out of it
                        Tell Homer and Charlie that our baby is eleven months old today and can speak several
                                    words real plain can climb up by chair and stand alone he is considered a very
                                    pretty and smart boy by every one that see him. we have had ripe peaches for more
                                    than two week and blackberries getting ripe. there will be bushels on this place as
                                    I have filled my paper will stop my scribling for this time you said if you thought
                                    I would answer you would write me a long letter I want you to be sure and do so the
                                    next time and I will answer every time and will promise not to be so long about it
                                    as have this time. Love to Mary and children and be sure to write soon Yours truly
                        
                                    Clem
                                
                        Tell Mary that her Mother is looking for a letter from her every day Barnes
                                    says tell Charlie that we have seven calves we let them have nearly all the milk and
                                    they are nice and fat excuse all mistakes Clem
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [To Margaret Myers Harris]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 13th [1878]
                                
                        Dear Daughter
                        I received your letter and was glad to hear you was all well I would like to see you
                                    and the children verry mutch I have neglected to right bet you must forgive me I am
                                    a poor letter writer at best and not being verry well and having a gooddeal to
                                    attend to I have had the berries to attend to I sold 52 gallons of blackberries one
                                    week and had three weeks picking but they are all gon now and am not sorry
                        you wanted me to come in and stay with you I cannot come till I get the bisness
                                    settled and then it wont make any diference where I am I wish some of you could come
                                    and see us this fall if you can wright and let us know
                        I thout of going to see Nelson this fall but do not know yet if mr Fry will go but if
                                    I go will not stay but four weeks
                        I wrote a letter to Mary some time ago and havent had an anser yet tell the children
                                    that I have not forgot them but would like to see them verry much I wish you could
                                    see our baby he is a verry nice redheaded boy verry cross
                        I send my love to all of my friends
                        you wanted to know Nelsons address Finley Segwic County 
                                        Kansas
                                    
                        
                        write soon
                        
                                    Margaret Myers
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Probably to Susan Drake of Fairbanks]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nevada
                                    Missouri
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July th 21st 1879
                                
                        Dear Sue
                        It at last falls on me to write you and tell you of our sad loss. that we have lost
                                    our darling little treasure, our precious little boy. he died of Flux th 12 last
                                    Saturday week at Eleven Oclock went to sleep while playing on tuesday night
                                    before[,] apparently as well as he ever was. and was taken during the night we had
                                    the best Medical assistance in 
                                        Nevada
                                     called at first. and we gave him the best attention, never left him a
                                    minute. his Grandma helped us so much she loved him so well and thought he was so
                                    smart. but it just seemed that he must go every thing worked gainst him from the
                                    first. medicine would not have any effect on him and he just grew worse all the
                                    time. The few days of his sickness poor little fellow suffered every thing and he
                                    bore it with so much patience. took his medicine just as nice as any grown person he
                                    was perfectly  conscious until a few minutes
                                    before he drew his last breath tried to tell me some thing but was to near gone for
                                    me to understand him. Sue I dont think I can ever get over this blow. but know you
                                    can surly sympathize with me if any one can. he was so much company for me. we miss
                                    him when we go to bed and when we get up in the morning at the table and every place
                                    he could say every thing and knew everything was always with me trying to help me
                                    work only when he was asleep I cannot Give him up yet I some times imagine he will
                                    yet come back to us again. and when I think it all over and know that he is gone
                                    from us forever I think I am the most miserable being on earth. I have good
                                    neighbors & friends here that have done all the could for me but all they
                                    can do or say cannot make me feel any better
                        Sue I did not think when I heard of little Jennie's and Charlie's
                                    death last spring I would so soon be called upon to give up my little pet. I know I
                                    should have written to you then and thought about it a great many times, but did not
                                    think I could say anything that would be any consolation to you. but I know your
                                    fellings now. but hope you are felling a little better by this time. perhaps the
                                    little Dears are better of but I cant think so now one thing that grieves me so much
                                    is because we never had Jimmies picture taken. we spent a half day over trying to
                                    get it but we couldnt get him still long enough. and after that Barnes horses got so
                                    wild that I was afraid to ride with them and just for that reason we never got it.
                                    Mother just got a letter from Mary last friday and she wrote for his picture. but we
                                    have nothing but a little of his hair
                        Mary & Mag will no doubt think very shortly that we have not written to them
                                    yet. but I did not feel as though I could write to any one unless it was you. and
                                    knew we ought to write to some of you we expected to send some papers to you with
                                    the Aubituary in last week it was written and taken to the Office but by some means
                                    it was misplaced and do not know whether we will get it this week or not please send
                                    word to the girls as soon as you can Mother has got the sick head ache today I was
                                    not able to be up half the time last week had to keep a girl and am not much better
                                    yet but as we have but little to do am trying to do alone it seems if I did not try
                                    to work alittle I would go crazy though it is very little that I do dont feel as
                                    though I will ever have any energy again please excuse all mistakes I do not know
                                    whether you can read it at all or not Now Sue I think you ought to be sure and
                                    answer this just as soon as you get it shall look for it at [illegible] will send
                                    you a piece of Jimmies little dress he was buried in so Florence and Hadie can see
                                    what it is like or a pair of little white slippers, tell Florence she must write to
                                    me. write soon
                        
                                    Clem
                                
                        My I wish you and the children could come see us
                     
                  
               
                
            [The Myers family correspondence covering the years 1880–1895 will appear in the June,
                    1990, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History.]
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Classic Hoagy Carmichael. By John Edward Hasse. (
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: Indiana Historical Society and Smithsonian Collection of Recordings, 1988.
                    Illustrations, notes on the recordings, select filmography, select bibliography, select discography.
                    Booklet and album or casette, $42.00.)
            Numerous scholarly and creative works have analyzed and celebrated the impact of America's
                    first jazz age, which began after World War I. In The Classic Hoagy Carmichael
                    John Edward Hasse, curator of American music at the Smithsonian Institution, presents a unique
                    version of that decade and its long-term influence via one musical career. A collaboration between
                    the Indiana Historical Society and the Smithsonian, this collection is an impressive tribute to
                    Hoagy Carmichael; it also makes a valuable contribution to the history of American popular music.
            Hoagland Howard Carmichael was born in 1899 and came of age during the important social and cultural
                    changes that shaped modern American life before and immediately after World War I. According to
                    Carmichael in his 1965 autobiography, Sometimes I Wonder, his was a time when
                    "jazz maniacs were being born and I was one of them." Carmichael's
                    earliest musical influences came from his mother's piano performances, including some at
                    Indiana University fraternity parties, and informal instruction from a black pianist, Reginald
                    Duvall, whom Carmichael met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the 1920s Carmichael participated as a performer and composer in the early
                    college-based jazz network that developed in Indiana and adjoining midwestern states. Cornetist Leon
                    "Bix" Biederbecke had a profound influence on Carmichael during these formative
                    years. Carmichael practiced his trade in 
                        New York
                     and, after 1936, in 
                        California
                    .
            Hasse correctly describes this project as a "sonic portrait of one of America's
                    foremost creators of songs" (p. 21). The well-illustrated album set contains fifty-seven
                    musical selections and a sixty-three-page booklet that provides a chronological overview of
                    Carmichael's life and musical career including brief evaluations of his skills as a
                    composer, lyricist, and performer. Careful attention is paid to historical context.
            The musical selections provide the central historical record. Beginning with a 1927 version of
                    "Riverboat Shuffle" by Frankie Trumbauer and his orchestra, the albums proceed
                    through seventy years of Carmichael's music. As Hasse notes, these songs "tell a
                    tale about Carmichael's active and eclectic life and the lives his 
                    
                  "HOAGY" CARMICHAEL AT THE INDIANAPOLIS PRESS CLUB, NOVEMBER 23, 1946
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Photograph by Foster Photo. Neg. no. 13402.
                songs have led on their own" (p. 21). Because the songs are performed by over
                    thirty individual singers, bands, or orchestras, listeners benefit from a versatile set of
                    interpretations that range from those of Paul Whiteman and Kate Smith to Louis Armstrong and Wynton
                    Marsalis. Carmichael himself is featured on nine cuts, which the producers use to document the
                    musician's developing vocal and compositional talents. Included are two versions each of
                    Carmichael's best-known hits, "Lazy River," "
                        Georgia
                     on My Mind," "The Nearness of You,"
                    "Rockin" Chair," and "Skylark," as well as six versions
                    of his immortal "Stardust." Hasse provides an informative additional discography,
                    bibliography, and filmography as references for further study.
            
            The Hoagy Carmichael collection is an excellent testimony to what jazz historian Ted Gioia calls the
                    "symbiotic relationship" between American popular song and jazz music. As these
                    albums demonstrate, Carmichael's most accomplished work took place at the sometimes elusive
                    boundary between these two musical areas. Interestingly, Carmichael's ear for this protean
                    material developed because of his appreciation of American vernacular music, including ragtime,
                    spirituals, and circus tunes. As Carmichael stated in his autobiography, he was pleased that he had
                    written tunes that sounded like "folksongs" because they "could be sung
                    all the way through by drunken quartets or by blondes over a piano bar." Hasse notes that
                    Carmichael demonstrated this talent for attracting a wide audience not only with nostalgic songs
                    like "Lazy River" and "
                        Georgia
                     on My Mind" but also with the piano standard, "Heart and
                    Soul," which generations of children continue to play as though it had come from an
                    anonymous folk tradition (p. 15). Some American song traditions come laden with potentially
                    offensive racial and ethnic stereotypes, of course, and Carmichael found that he needed to change
                    certain "controversial" lyrics in songs like "
                        Hong Kong
                     Blues" (p. 37). One wishes that Hasse had commented more on what Carmichael
                    found distinctive about African-American and other musical traditions.
            Carmichael's career also embodied the commercial congruence between jazz influences and pop
                    music. The diversity of performers and performance styles in these recordings effectively document
                    the wide range of musical possibilities for compositions like Carmichael's. Indeed, Hasse
                    writes that Carmichael "blazed a trail as one of the first singer-songwriters in the age of
                    mass media" (p. 13). His abilities developed with the emerging phonograph recording, radio,
                    and film industries. He listened to race records as a youngster and wrote music for Hollywood films
                    as an adult. His music illustrates the important role that visual as well as aural music played in
                    the dissemination of jazz.
            Perhaps the most telling event from Carmichael's Hollywood tenure came when he played a
                    pianist named "Smoke" in the 1950 cinema tribute to his hero Bix Beiderbecke. The
                    film gave Carmichael an opportunity to celebrate the dawn of a new musical era and his personal role
                    in creating it. Jazz age history has frequently been distorted by nostalgic portrayals of flappers,
                    sheiks, and jazz hounds; but as The Classic Hoagy Carmichael aptly demonstrates,
                    there were thoughtful young white men and women who embraced jazz as a language for communicating
                    new values and ideas. Carmichael was one of them, and his love for early jazz launched him on a
                    career in popular music that symbolized many of the best creative possibilities of those jazz
                    influences that entered the mainstream of American popular music.
            KATHY J. OGREN is assistant professor of history,
                    University of Redlands, Redlands, 
                        California
                    . She is the author of The Jazz Revolution: Twenties America and the
                        Meaning of Jazz (1989) and is currently working on a book about jazz
                autobiographies.
         
         
         
            
               The Journals of William A. Lindsay: An Ordinary Nineteenth-Century
                        Physician's Surgical Cases. Edited by Katherine Mandusic McDonell. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1989. Pp. xlix, 216. Illustrations, notes, glossaries,
                    maps, suggestions for further reading, index. $27.50.)
            Between 1836 and 1851 William A. Lindsay recorded in four journals what he described as
                    "some of the most important cases of surgery which have occurred in my practice"
                    (p. 1). Trained in medicine by apprenticeship in 
                        Ohio
                    , Lindsay practiced in Indiana, principally in 
                        Richmond
                    , during the years when he made most of the journal entries. Three of his journals are
                    now preserved in the Indiana State Library, and their text forms the core of this book. Katherine
                    Mandusic McDonell has skillfully edited these casebooks to make them accessible to the reader
                    unfamiliar with nineteenth-century medicine. An introduction ably sketches the medical world in
                    which Lindsay functioned, and glossaries identify proper names and medical terms that appear in his
                    text. Over fifty figures, including illustrations of nineteenth-century surgical techniques and
                    photographs of surgical instruments, vividly convey the realities of the surgeon's craft.
            What emerges is a powerful depiction of surgery in nineteenth-century Indiana. In the era before
                    1846, when surgical anesthesia was first used, major surgery was a grisly affair. For example, the
                    dilemma that faced the sick—to bear the disease or submit to the sure agony of undergoing
                    surgery fully sentient—is sharply displayed by the man who suffered from hydrocele for
                    several years before seeking surgical relief from Lindsay, and then only after his scrotum had been
                    distended to twenty inches in length. Lindsay's relationship with the sufferers compelled
                    to seek his aid is one persistent motif in these case histories. Equally intriguing are
                    Lindsay's interactions with other medical practitioners: the orthodox physicians who called
                    on him to manage difficult cases, those he invited for consultation, and the unorthodox healers
                    Lindsay sometimes blamed for aggravating his patients' ills and denounced as quacks.
            The recent impulse to rewrite history from below has drawn the attention of medical historians to the
                    fact that while much is known about the ideas of elite physicians, little is understood about the
                    activities of ordinary practitioners. Lindsay was ordinary but recorded only extraordinary surgical
                    cases. Moreover, he recorded most of these operations years or as much as a decade after performing
                    them, which makes one wish the editor had addressed the question of why Lindsay kept the journals in
                    the first place. Lindsay's casebooks do not reveal the workaday and monotonous drudgery of
                    the nineteenth-century general practitioner; however, this welcome volume does provide a revealing
                    window into 
                    
                  WILLIAM A. LINDSAY'S THREE
                                SURGICAL JOURNALS
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                  SPRING LANCET WITH CASE EARLY NINETEENTH CENTURY
                  
                  This instrument was used for bloodletting.
                  Courtesy Indiana Medical History Museum, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     how one ordinary medical practitioner surgically managed the
                    more desperate ills that afflicted his patients.
            JOHN HARLEY WARNER is associate
                    professor of history of medicine, Yale University, 
                  New
                        Haven, Connecticut
               , and author
                    of The Therapeutic Perspective: Medical Practice, Knowledge, and Identity in America,
                        1820–1885 (1986). He is now working on a book tentatively titled Against the Spirit of System: The French Impulse in Nineteenth-Century American
                Medicine.
            
         
         
            "Dearest Lizzie": The Civil War as Seen through the Eyes of
                        Lieutenant Colonel James Maynard Shanklin … . Edited by Kenneth P. McCutchan. (
                        Evansville
                    , Ind.: Friends of Willard Library Press, 1988. Pp. vi, 321. Illustrations, map,
                    appendixes, index. $20.00, plus $2.00 postage.)
            James Maynard Shanklin was not a typical soldier. He was the college-educated son of a wealthy 
                        Evansville
                     merchant and was connected by marriage and other ties to many of the elite families of
                    his city. Before the Civil War he was a lawyer and Democratic politician. With the firing on Fort
                    Sumter, Shanklin immediately rallied to the Union cause and became a War Democrat. He was quickly
                    given the rank of major and was assigned the task of recruiting men for the 42nd Indiana regiment.
                    After nearly two years of exemplary duty in the field, Shanklin was captured and sent to Libby
                    Prison in 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               . In May, 1863, shortly after he was exchanged and returned to 
                        Evansville
                    , he died suddenly of an unexplained seizure.
            "Dearest Lizzie" consists mainly of letters written by Shanklin
                    and his wife, Lizzie, to each other during his absence in the service. Kenneth P. McCutchan uses
                    prewar letters, newspaper items, and other sources for a first chapter that discusses
                    Shanklin's life before the war and for a concluding chapter that describes the postwar
                    fates of Lizzie and other individuals prominent in the correspondence. McCutchan identifies in
                    footnotes the numerous individuals mentioned in the correspondence and includes in the text extracts
                    from the Official Records and other sources to explain military matters alluded to
                    in the letters. The editor chose neither to analyze the content of the letters nor to place them
                    within the context of the interpretations of Civil War soldiers' motivations and
                    experiences presented in the work of Bell I. Wiley and, more recently, Gerald F. Linderman and Reid 
                        Mitchell
                    .
            While much in the letters is repetitive and mundane, there are also a number of interesting items and
                    illustrations of broad cultural trends. Shanklin provides informative vignettes of the reality of
                    battle, of southern whites and blacks, and of his capture and imprisonment. His letters depict a
                    pious, lay Christian who sought to understand his and the nation's experience of war in
                    terms of civic religious concepts. They also reveal a man whose attitudes,  beliefs, and behavior were representative of what Daniel W. Howe has
                    defined as Victorian culture. Despite his role in the Democratic party before the war, Shanklin
                    seems to have shared few of the views of the average Hoosier Democrat. He was, culturally speaking,
                    very similar to a typical upper-middle-class Republican. Given this fact, his quick conversion to
                    the Union cause and the War Democrats is quite logical.
            The Shanklin family papers appear to contain correspondence from Shanklin to family members other
                    than his wife. Including some of these letters might have proved useful to historians since Civil
                    War soldiers tended to reveal and describe different things about themselves and the war when
                    writing to male rather than female relatives or even when writing to brothers rather than fathers.
            THOMAS E. RODGERS is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department
                    of History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is completing a dissertation that employs selected counties of Indiana in a case
                    study of Civil War political ideology.
         
         
            
               Kenekuk, the Kickapoo Prophet. By Joseph B. Herring. (Lawrence: University Press
                    of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1988. Pp. xii, 176. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $19.95.)
            Joseph B. Herring's account of the unsung Indian patriot, Kenekuk, presents an unusual
                    Native American success story. From the early 1820s until 1852 the charismatic Prophet, who was
                    preserved for posterity in George Catlin's portrait, guided his Vermillion Kickapoo and
                    Potawatomi followers along a path of coexistence and cooperation. As Herring explains,
                    Kenekuk's people accepted acculturation but not assimilation: "although they lived
                    LIKE whites, they did not live AS whites" (p. 4).
            The details of Kenekuk's youth are unrecorded, but by the 1820s he had been converted from a
                    drunken outcast into an Indian Moses who preached a synthesis of Christianity and Indian
                    nationalism. Evidently influenced by vestiges of Roman Catholic teachings among the Kickapoo, the
                    Prophet adopted a black coat as God's holy garment, combined Christianity's most
                    useful aspects with ancient Kickapoo customs, and designed a prayer stick that his followers could
                    use as a mnemonic device in worship. Fundamental to the Prophet's demands of his followers
                    were obedience and denunciation of sin, especially the sin of alcoholism. Sinners were encouraged
                    not only to confess but also to accept corporal punishment in the form of public whippings. The
                    author proposes that the whippings were "to maintain discipline" and strengthen
                    "tribal unity." So powerful was the appeal of his disciplined religion that
                    Kenekuk's adherents held fast in the face of proselytizing attempts by white missionaries.
            
            The tightly knit, moralistic society created by Kenekuk and his followers helped them survive
                    onslaughts by waves of white settlers. Consequently, the Vermillion Kickapoo remained in the Wabash
                    country long after most other tribes had been driven west. By stalling for time to move,
                    manipulating Superintendent of Indian Affairs William Clark, and patronizing other white officials,
                    the Prophet's band held on until Jacksonian pressure for removal and the hysteria of the
                    so-called Black Hawk War raised tempers in Illinois against all Indians. At last forced to move to 
                        Kansas
                    , Kenekuk's band continued to survive in new villages on the Missouri River.
                    Even after the Prophet's death in 1852, Kenekuk's religion lived on, practiced by
                    the Kickapoos on their small reservation.
            Herring's story is an important corrective to the usual accounts of Indian leaders with
                    predictably unhappy endings. Although this work is more description than analysis, it is an
                    essential contribution to the literature of Native American leadership studies. The author deserves
                    much credit for rescuing Kenekuk from the middens of abandonment and restoring him to a place of
                    honor.
            JAMES H. O'DONNELL III is chair and Andrew U.
                    Thomas professor of history, political science, and religion. 
                        Marietta
                     College, 
                  Marietta, Ohio
               . He is currently working on a manuscript about the
                    northern and western Indians in the American Revolution and is planning a biography of Alexander
                    McGillivray, leader of the Creeks, 1783–1793.
         
         
            
               A Community Transplanted: The Trans-Atlantic Experience of a Swedish Immigrant
                        Settlement in the Upper Middle West, 1835–1915. By Robert C. Ostergren. (
                        Madison
                    : University of Wisconsin Press, 1988. Pp. xv, 400. Figures, maps, illustrations,
                    tables, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $45.00; paperbound, $19.95.)
            
               A Community Transplanted transcends the traditional immigration histories of past
                    decades by offering a detailed inside view of Swedish trans-Atlantic migration and community
                    formation that captures the "totality of the immigrant experience" (p. xiii).
                    Robert C. Ostergren has followed several hundred immigrants from their parish of R$aUttvik to the
                    American frontiers of Isanti County, 
                        Minnesota
                    , and 
                        Clay County
                    , 
                        South Dakota
                    , between the 1860s and 1910s. He vividly describes conditions within the
                    "sending" and "receiving" communities previous to and
                    immediately following the migrations in order to understand the migrant experience within
                    "contexts that were meaningful to the actual participants" (p. xiii).
            Ostergren focuses on the "chain migration" phenomenon in which individuals seeking
                    new opportunities followed the advice  and examples of friends
                    and kin who had previously uprooted themselves and traveled to a new land. He specifically examines
                    the impact of "America letters," kinship networks, and economic and environmental
                    factors upon individuals' decisions to leave their homes, and he follows the
                    "migration fever" as it swept from town to town in the Swedish parish.
            Through his skillful mining of diverse sources, including parish registers, property tax and land
                    records, manuscript censuses, and literary accounts, Ostergren immerses the reader in the daily life
                    and culture of Swedish immigrants. His finely crafted prose describes how they attempted to rebuild
                    their traditional society, which revolved around family, village, farm, and church, as a
                    "measure of continuity with the past" (p. 9).
            Ostergren concludes that the migration experience was the "connecting tissue" that
                    bound both sides of the Atlantic together and that the isolation of the midwestern frontier provided
                    an environment in which "the old social fabric remained largely inviolate through at least
                    the lives of the immigrant generation" (p. 327). Yet it was only a partial transplantation
                    of culture, argues Ostergren, "a brief emergence of something that resembled …
                    the organism from which it came" (p. 328). Traditional Swedish life was slowly transformed
                    and redefined through the immigrants' encounters with vast land, growing markets, and
                    American society, an experience similar to the transplanted clusters of Germans, Norwegians, Dutch,
                    and other Europeans in the American Middle West.
            
               A Community Transplanted is a carefully written, richly illustrated case study of
                    human migration. While depending primarily upon vast statistical data, Ostergren successfully
                    breathes life into his subjects and recaptures an immigrant culture of past times. It is a model
                    study of historical geography, immigration, and community transplantation and should quickly become
                    a standard in the field of migration studies.
            DAVID G. VANDERSTEL is senior historian at Conner
                            
                  Prairie, Noblesville
               , Indiana, and member of the associate faculty, Department
                    of History, Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is currently involved in editing the papers of a nineteenth-century Presbyterian
                    missionary and educator in Indiana.
         
         
            
               The New Deal at the Grass Roots: Programs for the People in Otter Tail County, 
                            Minnesota
                        . By D. Jerome Tweton. (
                        St. Paul
                    : Minnesota Historical Society Press, 1988. Pp. x, 205. Map, illustrations, table,
                    notes, bibliographic essay, index. Clothbound, $19.95; paperbound, $10.95.)
            In The New Deal at the Grass Roots: Programs for the People in Otter Tail County, 
                            Minnesota
                        , D. Jerome Tweton strives to provide a small-town, rural context for the
                    Depression and the New  Deal. The book is rooted in the devoted
                    efforts of the Otter Tail County Historical Society's "Thirties Project,"
                    which was designed to preserve the local oral history of that turbulent decade. Tweton has
                    skillfully employed these oral history materials to describe and assess the county-level and
                    personal impact of numerous New Deal programs. Most chapters include local statistics and vignettes
                    that are used to examine clusters of programs such as those involving direct relief or aiming at
                    banking reorganization and business recovery. One chapter focuses in greater personal detail on
                    workers for the county's Works Progress Administration Historical Records Survey.
                    Tweton's conclusion is that by "recognizing the legitimacy of grass roots control
                    and responsibility, the New Deal fostered a new sense of democracy and community" (p. 167).
            Many readers will find the book somewhat old-fashioned. Recent studies of communities (such as
                    colonial New 
                        England
                    ) and of society "from the bottom up" have utilized theoretical models
                    to analyze the interactions of ethnicity, religion, gender, and social class in historical
                    processes. In contrast, Tweton employs no concepts (not even modernization or Robert
                    Wiebe's decline of "island-communities") to place this county's
                    experience in a larger context. The book begins with a rather prosaic survey of ethnic and religious
                    diversity in Otter Tail County but thereafter fails to use this diversity as a tool for analysis.
                    Except for noting a few rural and urban differences the author treats residents as a single
                    homogeneous mass. Furthermore, because Tweton does not establish an operational definition for
                    "grass-roots control," he has no baseline and no basis for claims that
                        "never before [reviewer's emphasis] had individuals and
                    groups made such a variety of decisions that influenced the course of their separate and collective
                    lives" (p. 167).
            Readers seeking the right mood for The New Deal at the Grass Roots might try a
                    musical celebration of America's democratic ethos like Aaron Copland's
                    "Fanfare for the Common Man." On a "Symbols of Rural 
                        Minnesota
                    " map, Tweton's Otter Tail County is nearer to Garrison
                    Keillor's Lake Wobegon, "where all the children are above average," than
                    it is to Sinclair Lewis's Gopher 
                        Prairie
                    , which is ruled by the tyranny of a smug mediocrity.
            LARRY R. PETERSON is associate professor of history, 
                        North Dakota
                     State University, Fargo. He is currently working on research on long-term trends in
                    families on the Great Plains and in America.
         
         
            
               The History of 
                            Wisconsin
                        . Volume VI, Continuity and Change, 1940–1966. By
                    William F. Thompson. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1988. Pp. xix, 830. Notes, maps, illustrations, figures, appendix, essay on sources,
                    index. $35.00.)
            William F. Thompson, 
                        Wisconsin
                    's state historian and head of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin
                    research office since 1964,  has made an extraordinary effort
                    not only to enlighten his fellow citizens about the fascinating, complex, and sometimes
                    contradictory history of their state over the last half century but also to provide scholars with a
                    pathbreaking study of an important mid-western state. His book is highly informative; it is also a
                    pleasure to read. Most Americans have some knowledge of the wars fought since 1941, of the civil
                    rights and women's movements, of the shift of population from city to suburb and from
                    downtown to shopping mall, of the change from the neighborhood theater and the radio in the living
                    room to the television in the family room, but Thompson's book provides a much more
                    detailed picture of these occurrences. Thompson notes, for example, that in 1940, 95 percent of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's urban homes had hot and cold running water and flush toilets, but only
                    one-fifth of the state's farmhouses had these conveniences; three-quarters of city
                    dwellings had central heating, one-quarter of farmhouses. The pattern of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's agricultural economy paralleled that of the
                    country's—greatly increased production from a smaller number of larger farms.
                    During the years 1940–1970 the number of dairy farms declined by half, from 123,000 to
                    64,000, but milk production increased by 46 percent. In the 1970s the average-sized Wisconsin farm
                    occupied an intermediate position, somewhat smaller than the grain farms of 
                  Iowa, Illinois
               , and Minnesota but somewhat larger than the diversified farms of 
                        Michigan
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Like other industrial states Wisconsin saw the number of its industrial jobs decline during the years
                    that followed World War II. Thompson offers a number of reasons for this development. Some of 
                        Milwaukee
                    's major manufacturing companies built nonunion plants in the Sunbelt. Although
                    the state legislature passed laws in the early 1970s that eliminated an onerous tax on new
                    industrial equipment and plant modernization, businessmen continued to believe that Wisconsin had an
                    unfavorable business climate. Neighboring 
                        Minnesota
                    , like 
                        Wisconsin
                    , was considered an energy short, high tax state, yet 
                        Minnesota
                    's Twin Cities surpassed 
                        Milwaukee
                     during these years as their economy grew at a faster rate. Thompson notes that 
                        Milwaukee
                     continued to depend on its production of heavy durable goods while 
                        Minneapolis
                    -
                        St. Paul
                     supplemented their economy with computer and medical equipment, data processing, and
                    other high technology.
            The last part of the book is devoted to the volatile political history of the state. Religious-ethnic
                    differences in Wisconsin elections, reapportionment for the state legislature and county boards, the
                    1960 presidential election, school district consolidation, and the public busing of parochial school
                    children were once highly divisive and hotly debated issues; they are now memories and part of
                    history.
            
            Volume VI of The History of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                is a superb and fascinating account of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's recent past and a basic book for anyone wishing to examine the development
                    of the Midwest during the last half century.
            CARL E. KROG is associate professor of history, University
                    of Wisconsin Center, Marinette, 
                        Wisconsin
                    . He is coeditor of Herbert Hoover and the Republican Era: A
                        Reconsideration (1984) and has written a number of articles on lumbering and community
                    development in nineteenth-century 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
         
         
            
               Peace, Faith, Nation: Mennonites and Amish in Nineteenth-Century America. By
                    Theron F. Schlabach. (Scottsdale, Pa.: Herald Press, 1988. Pp. 415. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)
            This book is the second in a projected four-volume history of the Mennonite experience in America, an
                    undertaking designed to tell the story of this significant family of religious outsiders in America
                    and to provide a subtext of faithful testimony to Mennonite values. Theron F. Schlabach's
                    particular focus is the nineteenth century, a period that witnessed geographical and numerical
                    expansion simultaneously with increasing diversity among Mennonites and Amish in America. The author
                    traces the changing fortunes of the Mennonite tradition from 1790 when its members were concentrated
                    in eastern Pennsylvania to the end of the following century, by which time they had spread across
                    the Midwest, the Great Plains, and 
                        Canada
                    . During the generations of westward expansion the members of these churches came into
                    contact with evangelical revivalism, struggled through the Civil War, and accommodated a large
                    influx of "new immigrants." Each of these encounters was a shaping experience.
                    Evangelical Protestantism, for example, challenged patterns of community life and the "way
                    of humility" with its strident individualism and conversionist piety. The Civil War created
                    immense tensions among these peace-loving Christians, some of whom rejected pacifism and took part
                    in the conflict. The arrival of ten thousand or more Russian Mennonites late in the century taxed
                    the generosity of resident groups and contributed to further schisms.
            This book features Mennonite characteristics that were distinctive as well as traits the group shared
                    with the larger culture. Schlabach's discussion of the latter is especially useful because
                    of the time-honored Mennonite witness of "separation from the world." The author
                    has packed his volume with anecdotes and biography, details that might have become bewildering had
                    he not organized the study so clearly along thematic and chronological lines.
            
            
               MENNONITE PUBLISHING COMPANY, ELKHART, INDIANA, 1886 John F. Funk, publisher, at right
               Courtesy Archives of the Mennonite Church, 
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana.
            
            No doubt some within the Mennonite tradition will find in these tales of their religious ancestors
                    confirmation of their own faith. Persons interested in the history of American religions will
                    discover in this account striking parallels to the stories of more mainline religious groups. Those
                    concerned with ethnic studies will find this volume a rich resource, too. Individuals focusing on
                    the history of the Midwest, or even more particularly, on the state of Indiana, will not be
                    disappointed either, for this study contains an extended discussion of the Indiana Mennonite
                    community including, for example, those at Yellow Creek and Berne. Scholars who might wish for a
                    more detached account will have to turn elsewhere: this work stands squarely within the Mennonite
                    historiographical tradition by combining chronicle and testimony.
            STEPHEN J. STEIN, a member of the Department of Religious
                    Studies and an adjunct member of the Department of History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is completing work on a book-length study of the Shakers in the 
                        United States
                    .
         
         
         
            
               Cracker Culture: Celtic Ways in the Old South. By Grady McWhiney. (
                        Tuscaloosa
                    : University of Alabama Press, 1988. Pp. xliii, 290. Illustrations, notes, appendix,
                    index. $25.95.)
            In this spirited study Grady McWhiney for the most part looks at non-elite white people in the
                    antebellum South. Yet the subjects of his book, which is the culmination of a project that began
                    fifteen years ago when McWhiney and Forrest McDonald suggested reevaluating the southern herdsman,
                    are not necessarily the impoverished, nonslaveholding whites one would expect to find as the focus
                    of such a study. "Cracker does not signify an economic condition," McWhiney
                    observes. "Rather, it defines a culture" (p. xiv).
            The culture that McWhiney describes will be familiar to students of the Old South. The
                    author's thematic chapters, based heavily on travelers' accounts and other
                    contemporary observations of antebellum social life, detail such matters as hospitality, violence,
                    morals, education, and attitudes toward self-esteem and social progress. The archetypal southerner
                    emerges: hard-drinking, scornful of hard work, partial to life in the sun, and given to expressions
                    of pride, loyalty, and intense localism. This archetype does not, however, have local origins. In
                    McWhiney's view these familiar characteristics must be appreciated—even
                    celebrated as he does in these pages—as part of a Celtic tradition given root throughout
                    the South by the Irish and Scotch-Irish immigrants who settled along the spine of the Appalachians
                    from western Virginia into 
                        Georgia
                    . Each chapter follows a similar pattern as McWhiney describes
                    "cracker" ways and then the Celtic ways that resemble them. Like the historical
                    differences between the Celts and their tormentors the English, the differences between the Celtic
                    southerners and the Anglo Yankees "were deep cultural contrarieties between two distinct
                    peoples," who eventually fought an inevitable Civil War (p. 269).
            Because McWhiney sees this Anglo-Celtic conflict as continuous and hardly mediated at all by the
                    American experience, the book is substantially flawed. For all of its engaging, colorful accounts of
                    southern ways and despite the importance of understanding the impact of Irish settlement of the
                    South, McWhiney's study has no discernable interpretation of how a cultural tradition is
                    transmitted from one generation to another. Too often, it appears that McWhiney's Celts are
                    almost genetically driven to reproduce their patterns of herding and hospitality without reference
                    to—or self-consciousness about—changes in the development of a heritage. By
                    proceeding thematically McWhiney is unable to focus on change, on how southern
                    conditions made southerners; thus, he minimizes fundamental realities of southern history in this
                    era. He does not consider, to take one example, the ways in which  evangelical Christianity, especially among women, served to counterpoint and undercut so many of
                    the male excesses of "cracker" life. He consistently underplays race in all
                    regards, ignoring the ways in which slavery shaped work, leisure, and belief. Moreover, had McWhiney
                    explored the culture of southerners (of Irish and other descent) who settled in southern Indiana,
                    asking how their way of life resembled or departed from the one he sees, he might have been better
                    able to assess the conditions that turned a Celt into a "cracker." But he chooses
                    to stay within the borders of the Old South, carrying on the old war.
            STEVEN M. STOWE teaches southern history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and serves as associate editor of the Journal of American History.
                    He is the author of Intimacy and Power in the Old South: Ritual in the Lives of the
                        Planter (1987) and is working on a study of illness, family life, and belief in the South,
                    1800–1880.
         
         
            
               Proslavery: A History of the Defense of Slavery in America,
                    1701–1840. By Larry E. Tise. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xix, 501. Illustrations, tables, appendixes, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $40.00.)
            In this bold and provocative work Larry E. Tise seeks to "demythologize both popular
                    perceptions of the defense of slavery and the misconceptions innocently perpetuated by
                    historians" (p. xiv). Unlike previous scholars who understood proslavery ideology to be a
                    corpus of prejudice espoused by southern slaveholding racists, Tise interprets it as part of a
                    broader tradition of hierarchical thought, "a nationally held system of symbols and beliefs
                    that, despite all of the appearances of the mood and direction of antebellum America, seems to have
                    won the adherence and endorsement of a vast number of Americans both in the North and in the
                    South" (pp. 360–61). Tise argues that proslavery ideology stemmed from the
                    unique character of the American experience and not from any peculiar qualities of antebellum
                    southern culture. It was, he explains, a value system "that reconciled … the
                    inevitable conflict between the nation's Revolutionary ideals and the facts of
                    enslavement" and a major ideological foundation "for the renovation of American
                    society as a great conservative republic" (p. 361). Employing the methodologies of
                    narrative, quantitative, and comparative history, Tise focuses on the antebellum clergy, a group
                    that authored almost one-half of all the proslavery works that he examined.
            Tise locates the origins of American proslavery thought in eighteenth-century conservative New 
                        England
                    , not in the nineteenth-century plantation South. He recognizes the rhetoric of freedom
                    and equality that temporarily swept the new American nation during and immediately following the
                    Revolution but argues persuasively that proslavery thought dominated attitudes toward  blacks and other alleged "inferior" peoples both
                    before and after the conflict. New 
                        England
                     Federalists and conservative ministers—fearful of the French Revolution and
                    slave revolts in the Caribbean—challenged the natural rights ideology of the American
                    Revolution and of the Jeffersonians. Ironically, it was not until the 1830s that proslavery doctrine
                    penetrated the South, long a stronghold of Jeffersonian ideals, as New 
                        England
                     clergymen transported the proslavery ideology with them below the Mason and Dixon line.
                    Not until then, argues Tise, did the South enter "America's lively conservative
                    counterrevolutionary tradition and thereby into the mainstream of American history" (p.
                    361).
            Tise's innovative and imaginative work revises generations of scholarship on the proslavery
                    argument, especially William S. Jenkins's standard Pro-slavery Thought in the
                        Old South (1935). In addition to illuminating proslavery doctrine in New 
                        England
                    , Tise correctly underscores proslavery's "neglected period,"
                    1808–1832, and the proslavery heritage of late eighteenth-century Britain and the West
                    Indies. For all of his insightful analyses, however, Tise fails to explain to what extent white
                    Americans—not just an intellectual elite—shared a dedication to proslavery
                    republicanism. And regrettably, Tise's book is marred by an arrogant, self-righteous,
                    moralistic tone, one that is unsympathetic to the best efforts of previous scholars. Nevertheless,
                    historians of slavery and the South will find Proslavery an engaging and
                    challenging book, one with which they will most certainly have to reckon.
            JOHN DAVID SMITH is associate professor
                    of history, 
                        North Carolina
                     State University, 
                        Raleigh
                    . His publications include An Old Creed for the New South: Proslavery
                        Ideology and Historiography, 1865–1918 (1985); The Dictionary of
                        Afro-American Slavery (1988); and Ulrich Bonnell Phillips: A Southern
                        Historian and His Critics (forthcoming).
         
         
            
               Two Great Rebel Armies: An Essay in Confederate Military History. By Richard M.
                    McMurry. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1989. Pp. xvi, 204. Map, tables, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $19.95.)
            It is refreshing to read a book that takes the high ground and delineates issues of large
                    significance in Civil War military history, a subfield dominated by minutia. Richard M. McMurry
                    rises above the detail and provides what he calls "a philosophical and historiographical
                    introduction" (p. xiii) to a much larger study that he plans to write about the Confederate
                    war effort in the western theater. This larger study, which will seek to explain why the
                    Confederates lost the Civil War through their magnificent defeats in the West, will cover military
                    operations and "political, economic, strategic, tactical, organizational, administrative,
                    naval, and logistical facets" (p. x).
            
            This short work—which is an essay comparing the major rebel army of the West, the Army of 
                        Tennessee
                    , with the major rebel army of the East, the Army of Northern 
                        Virginia
                    —deftly sets the stage for the upcoming book. It spells out in clear
                    language, supported by convincing evidence, McMurry's thesis that the Army of Tennessee had
                    all the cards stacked against it. Geography, industry, transportation, training, administration, and
                    organization all hampered the western army while favoring Robert E. Lee's eastern force.
                    The more competent Federal generals in the West compared to those in the East further upset the
                    balance of opportunity. In McMurry's view there was little chance that the Army of
                    Tennessee could have been successful.
            McMurry's argument is convincing, although one could protest its deterministic tone. If more
                    imaginative and inspirational leaders could have been found for the Army of 
                        Tennessee
                    , surely strategic gains could have been made in the West, as they nearly were during
                    Braxton Bragg's mishandled invasion of Kentucky in the summer of 1862. But of course
                    McMurry deals with facts, not might-have-beens. His major contribution is to show that not only poor
                    generalship but a host of social, cultural, and geographical factors as well led to Confederate
                    defeat in the West. In accurately gauging the relative effect of both theaters of operation on the
                    course of the Confederate war effort, McMurry supports the nascent argument that the West was the
                    decisive theater. It is an interpretation that may upset those whose heart is with Lee's
                    army, but it rings wonderfully true to those specialists who have been weaned on the western
                    battles.
            EARL J. HESS is visiting assistant professor of history,
                    University of 
                        Arkansas
                    , Fayetteville. He has recently published Liberty, Virtue, and Progress:
                        Northerners and Their War for the Union (1988) and is currently writing a book on the
                    battle of Pea Ridge, 
                        Arkansas
                    .
         
         
            
               If It Takes All Summer: The Battle of Spotsylvania. By William D. Matter. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1988. Pp. x, 455. Maps, illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            
               The American Civil War and the Origins of Modern Warfare: Ideas, Organization, and
                        Field Command. By Edward Hagerman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1988. Pp. xviii, 366. Tables, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $37.50.)
            These two books, one an exhaustively detailed treatment of a single battle, the other a study of the
                    strategic, tactical, and technical influence of an entire war on the evolution of warfare, represent
                    opposite ends of the spectrum of military history. If It Takes All Summer is a
                    study of the two-week-long battle of Spotsylvania  that occurred
                    May 6–21, 1864. The American Civil War and the Origins of Modern
                    Warfare, on the other hand, is almost a technical manual in its painstaking description of the
                    logistical and technological aspects of the Civil War.
            Although intimate knowledge of each major Civil War battle is not particularly useful to any but the
                    most dedicated buff, a good grasp of the myriad activities involved in all large-scale combat,
                    beyond the fighting itself, is essential to a serious military historian. Spotsylvania lends itself
                    well to this kind of detailed treatment since the struggle encompassed fourteen days of continuous
                    fighting between the two armies. As William D. Matter ably describes, moving, maneuvering, and
                    fighting a large force is a very difficult task that is not adequately treated in more general
                    military histories. He takes the reader down to the regimental level to explore the human elements
                    of combat and to show in microcosm the "fog of battle" that exists at all levels
                    in all battles. When he must move up the chain of command, however, Matter has a tendency to move
                    too quickly from unit to unit and from Union to Confederate forces instead of letting events flow in
                    longer sequences. More and better maps would have helped although the author does have a useful
                    order of battle included as an appendix. If one has the patience and interest to follow the details
                    of the battles and maneuvers, this well-written and fast-paced book provides an excellent account of
                    the bloody affair at Spotsylvania.
            Few authors have probed the Civil War as deeply or as successfully as Edward Hagerman in The American Civil War and the Origins of Modern Warfare. In the area of tactics,
                    strategy, and grand strategy readers learn much about entrenching, frontal assaults versus flanking
                    movements, kinds of strategies, the high command's thinking about grand strategy, and many
                    other issues with which the decision makers groped. The author traces the evolution of weapons and
                    the organization of infantry, cavalry, artillery, and engineers as well as the relationship of these
                    elements to each other. He discusses both the limitations and opportunities presented by railroads,
                    rivers, and roads and examines other transportation factors such as the importance of wagons, mules,
                    and horses to the success of the Union armies and to the eventual breakdown of the Confederate
                    forces. Hagerman also explores topics seldom covered in military history texts. He discusses
                    communications and the struggle to establish a signal corps. He investigates the effect of Union and
                    Confederate soldiers' caloric intake on combat performance. He demonstrates that commanders
                    (or students of military history) ignore logistics at their peril. Again, as in the Spotsylvania
                    book, the reader learns how difficult and complicated it is to fight and to move an army.
            Occasionally, confusion results when Hagerman moves too quickly from topic to topic without
                    sufficient discussion. Too wedded  to combat events, he
                    sometimes allows the fighting to become the main part of his story. Technological topics rather than
                    battlefield chronology should have dictated the flow of the book; subject matter is what the reader
                    needs to absorb, not the flow of events. Nevertheless, no serious Civil War scholar can do without
                    this invaluable book. Matter's work on the battle of Spotsylvania is excellent, absorbing,
                    and informative, but Hagerman's coverage of the technological aspects of the Civil War is
                    essential.
            RAYMOND L. SHOEMAKER, who received his B.S. from West
                    Point and his Ph.D. from Indiana University, is the assistant executive director of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. He has published several articles and has given numerous papers on military
                    history, especially in the area of early American naval history. He is currently working on an
                    article about the court-martial of Commodore David Porter in 1825.
         
         
            
               The Female Frontier: A Comparative View of Women on the 
                            Prairie
                         and the Plains. By Glenda Riley. (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1988. Pp. x, 299. Illustrations, appendixes, tables, notes, note on sources, index.
                    $25.00.)
            Using an impressive array of sources including newspapers, census data, and city directories as well
                    as the private papers of both single and married women representing a wide variety of ages, classes,
                    and ethnic groups, Glenda Riley argues that the lives of pioneer women differed so significantly
                    from those of frontiersmen that it is possible to identify what she calls a "female
                    frontier," a frontier governed by behavior patterns, sensibilities, and a value system that
                    were distinctly feminine. According to Riley, the frontier provided men with an environment that
                    encouraged them to exploit natural resources and participate in public affairs such as military
                    expeditions or politics. The frontier experience for women, however, was dominated by conventional
                    attitudes toward gender roles and the cult of domesticity. Riley points out, for example, that
                    employment for women on the prairie and the plains was typically confined to such traditionally
                    female occupations as teaching, domestic service, needlework, medical care, farm labor, and
                    prostitution. While she admits that opportunities to step outside the bounds of acceptable female
                    behavior patterns existed on both the prairie and the plains, she argues that "pervasive
                    social controls" limited their impact (p. 196). Her evidence also indicates that while
                    conditions on the plains could be more trying to women than those on the prairie, there was little
                    else to differentiate between the lives of frontierswomen in the two regions. She argues that the
                    focus of women's lives in both areas centered around activities such as housekeeping,
                    childbearing, self-improvement, and community service.
            
            Riley's assessment of women's experience on the frontier does not differ
                    substantially from much that has been written on the subject since John Mack Faragher's Women and Men on the Overland Trail was published in 1979. In his book Faragher
                    stressed the common culture that men and women shared with each other and carried with them into the
                    frontier. A part of that shared culture was a set of clearly defined ideas concerning
                    women's proper role in society. Riley uses her evidence to illustrate the impact that those
                    ideas had on conduct of everyday life on both the prairie and the plains and concludes that there
                    was little on either frontier to liberate women from them.
            SYLVIA HOFFERT teaches women's history and
                    nineteenth-century social history at Southwest Missouri State University, 
                        Springfield
                    . She is the author of Private Matters: American Attitudes toward
                        Childbearing and Infant Nurture in the Urban North, 1800–1860 (1989).
         
         
            
               Families and Farmhouses in Nineteenth-Century America: Vernacular Design and Social
                        Change. By Sally McMurry. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1988. Pp. xiii, 261. Notes, illustrations, figures, bibliography,
                    index. $29.95.)
            This book is narrower than its title may indicate. Rather than considering nineteenth-century
                    families and farmhouses generally, it focuses on "several hundred" (p. vii) house
                    plans that northern farmers submitted to agricultural journals from 1830 to the end of the
                    nineteenth century. It stops when architects and home economists took control of advanced thinking
                    about rural houses and ended the progressive, vernacular tradition that gave concrete forms to
                    aspiring farmers' ideas about domestic life. Those ideas are the principal subjects of this
                    impressively argued and abundantly illustrated monograph.
            Sally McMurry demonstrates that rural ideas about domesticity differed from the urban and suburban
                    versions that are more familiar to historians. Urban domestic ideology defined homes as sanctuaries;
                    rural domesticity, at least through the mid-nineteenth century, recognized that homes were
                    productive work places. Designs made in light of that recognition put nurseries near kitchens so
                    that mothers could supervise children without much interruption of work. That focus on production
                    weakened later in the century when plans called for assortments of rooms that would satisfy family
                    members' demands for leisure and privacy, but even then rural house planners distinguished
                    themselves from their city counterparts by substituting sitting rooms for parlors. Sitting rooms
                    were supposed to foster economy and unity as opposed to the "family disintegration,
                    economic waste, and idleness" (p. 6) that parlors were thought to epitomize.
            
            Other aspects of domesticity that are considered in relationship to house designs include
                    childrearing, the growing differentiation between women's and men's work that
                    accompanied the " `defeminization' of agriculture" (p. 95), and farm
                    women's growing perception of their work as drudgery. McMurry's discussion of
                    drudgery is particularly illuminating; it suggests that women felt increasingly burdened as they
                    withdrew from farm work, as their families prospered, and even as they acquired advanced tools such
                    as sewing machines.
            McMurry's argument about drudgery, like most of the book, rests on the author's
                    penetrating study of the principal nineteenth-century farm journals. As she recognizes, those
                    journals pose a problem; they provide much less information about the "progressive
                    families" (p. 26) that contributed plans and opinions than she would like to have. Apart
                    from a few well-known contributors, such as Lewis Falley Allen, her progressive house designers are
                    shadowy figures. Despite that difficulty, the journals document the ideas of a great many thoughtful
                    farm people as no other sources do. McMurry makes exemplary use of their words and pictures and also
                    draws upon an imposing mass of other primary and secondary sources. Both her analysis and her
                    bibliography will be helpful to students of nineteenth-century rural life.
            DONALD B. MARTI is associate professor of history, Indiana
                    University at 
                        South Bend
                    . He studies American rural institutions and is now writing about women's
                    participation in the Grange.
         
         
            
               Taking the University to the People: Seventy-five Years of Cooperative
                    Extension. By Wayne D. Rasmussen. (Ames: Iowa State University Press, 1989. Pp. ix, 300.
                    Illustrations, appendixes, select bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            In this volume Wayne D. Rasmussen surveys the history of the Cooperative Extension throughout the
                    entire nation. The book commemorates the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Smith Lever Act, which
                    established the Cooperative Extension Service in 1914. Approaching the subject in both a
                    chronological and topical manner, Rasmussen first presents (following an introductory chapter) four
                    chapters on the historical development of Extension, tracing the organization from the days of
                    farmers' institutes through the end of World War II. He then treats his subject in a
                    topical manner in chapters on the relationship between Extension and the farmer; the home (including
                    health and nutrition); youth and leadership; and rural and community development. He ends with a
                    chapter on the next seventy-five years, discussing problems that Extension may face and making some
                    suggestions for the future. Throughout, he has much praise for the Extension Service and its
                    accomplishments.
            
            In his efforts to survey the entire field of Cooperative Extension in the 
                        United States
                    , Rasmussen faces a formidable, perhaps even impossible, task. Although all state
                    Extension Services shared a common structure and relationship with the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture, regional variations affected the thinking and procedures of
                    local Extension officials. Even the acceptance of Extension by area farmers varied from state to
                    state; in fact, it often varied from township to township within the same county. Although Rasmussen
                    does briefly note many of these differences, many regional and state variations are unavoidably
                    obscured because of his wide perspective.
            Even with this limitation the book manifests the vast knowledge of Extension that Rasmussen has
                    gained over a professional lifetime of working for the USDA. It provides an excellent general
                    overview of the Extension Service throughout the country and a thorough understanding of the way the
                    cooperative relationship worked between the USDA, the state land grant colleges, and the county
                    Extension organizations. The reader only wishes that the book were twice its present length so that
                    Rasmussen might have included more information on the Extension Service after 1945 and more on
                    specific state services, information that he obviously possesses. The volume is well written and
                    provides an informative and a readable account for both the professional and the lay person.
            DOROTHY SCHWIEDER is professor of history, Iowa State
                    University, Ames. Her most recent publication, coauthored with Joseph Hraba and Elmer Schweider, is
                        Buxton: Work and Racial Equality in a Coal Mining Community (1987). She is now
                    working on a history of the Iowa State University Cooperative Extension Service.
         
         
            
               Regions and Regionalism in the 
                            United States
                        . By Michael Bradshaw. (
                        Jackson
                    : University Press of 
                        Mississippi
                    , 1988. Pp. x, 187. Figures, graphs, maps, tables, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $27.50; paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               Region and Regionalism in the 
                            United States
                        : A Source Book for the Humanities and Social Sciences. By Michael Steiner and
                    Clarence Mondale. (
                        New York
                    : Garland Publishing, Inc., 1988. Pp. xvii, 495. Notes, bibliographies, index.
                    $69.00.)
            Michael Bradshaw in his overview of American regionalism contends that a regional perspective would
                    enhance public policy decisions with regard to many issues; however, he believes that there is a
                    problem with identifying the most appropriate set of regions. A British geographer, he argues that
                    the confusion over contemporary regions of America results from "the fact that most
                    regional geographies assume a `snapshot' static view of regional divisions."
                    Instead, he states, "A historical input is required" (p. 27). Bradshaw, however,
                    does not seem to have considered the  work of two of the leading
                    American regional geographers, D. W. Meinig and Peirce Lewis; and although the name of a third major
                    regionalist, Wilbur Zelinsky, appears in the bibliography, Zelinsky's interpretation is not
                    evident in the text. For example, the mid-twentieth-century American regions depicted on page 49 are
                    urban hinterlands, a functional, not a historical, definition. Perhaps Bradshaw has given short
                    shrift to the literature in historical geography because of its primarily cultural emphasis whereas
                    Bradshaw believes mainly in economic regionalization: "the most important socio-economic
                    differences between regions are those which are based on inequalites which emerge between groups of
                    people and so between the regions in which they live" (p. 60).
            Bradshaw also provides case studies of regions—Frostbelt versus Sunbelt, East versus West,
                    the Tennessee Valley, and Appalachia among others—distinctive with regard to economic
                    base, degree of affluence, and economic problems. Again, cultural distinctions are not considered.
                    One wonders about the usefulness of public policy decisions made by planners with little
                    appreciation of regional culture.
            Michael Steiner and Clarence Mondale have written a very different and much richer book on American
                    regionalism. Their work provides an annotated bibliography of the literature on American regionalism
                    from many disciplines, including anthropology, economics, geography, history, literature, political
                    science, and sociology. The section on geography is divided into "Region as
                    Concept," "Perception Studies," "Landscape and
                    Settlement," and "Distributional Studies." The section on history
                    includes units on "Frontier and Landscape" and "Family and Community
                    Studies." This source book is an indispensable resource for anyone seriously interested in
                    the geographical complexity of American society. It is surprising, however, that Robert S. and Helen
                    M. Lynd's 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     and James West's Plainville, U.S.A. were not included under
                    sociology. Although these communities might appear to be typically American and not regional, in
                    fact they are quintessentially midwestern.
            BRUCE BIGELOW is associate professor of geography, 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He has published articles on the historical geography of the Presbyterians and
                    Disciples of Christ in antebellum Indiana.
         
         
            
               Panther in the Sky. By James Alexander Thom. (
                        New York
                    : Ballantine Books, 1989. Pp. 655. Maps, illustration. $19.95.)
            Following his best-selling From Sea to Shining Sea (1984), James Alexander Thorn
                    turns his attention to the other side of the frontier in a novel based on the life of the Shawnee
                    chief Tecumseh. Thorn reconstructs a dramatic story, tries to tell it from the  point of view of his Shawnee characters, and writes well for a popular
                    audience.
            Born under the sign of a shooting star in 1768, Tecumseh grew up in turbulent times. His father died
                    at the Battle of Point Pleasant in 1774; the Shawnee chief Cornstalk was murdered in 1777; the
                    Shawnee nation split in 1779 when many Shawnees migrated from Ohio to 
                        Missouri
                    ; and one American army after another marched into Shawnee country to burn villages and
                    destroy crops. The warriors inflicted some crushing defeats on invading armies; but following their
                    defeat at Fallen Timbers in 1794, Indian leaders ceded the bulk of Ohio at the Treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    .
            Tecumseh became a magnet for younger warriors who wished to continue the fight. While the messianic
                    preaching of his brother, the Prophet—a reformed drunkard known as the Open
                    Door—produced a religious movement among the tribes, Tecumseh welded together a
                    remarkable multitribal confederation. Thorn conveys the growing tension between Indians and whites
                    by focusing on the confrontation between the protagonists, Tecumseh and his nemesis, Governor
                    William Henry Harrison of Indiana Territory. Harrison failed to break the confederacy at the Battle
                    of Tippecanoe in 1811, but Tecumseh's death at the Battle of the Thames in 1813 shattered
                    Indian hopes of halting American expansion east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            Historical novels with their imagined incidents, stilted dialogue, and uncomplicated characters often
                    trivialize rather than breathe life into the stories they attempt to dramatize. This is especially
                    the case when novelists try their hands at Indian subjects. Panther in the Sky
                    shares some of the shortcomings of the genre. There are occasional inaccuracies, and the rather
                    stereotypical portrayal of the Prophet as a deformed buffoon does little to explain his influence.
                    The romantic interest between Tecumseh and Rebecca Galloway is weak because it is fiction not
                    history. The narrative is strongest where the historical record is rich and the author has less need
                    to resort to invention.
            Thorn naturally portrays his hero as larger than life, but Tecumseh was a charismatic leader and a
                    remarkable individual who impressed even his enemies. Historians and ethnologists will find things
                    to criticize here, but this novel finally gives an Indian leader his place in popular literature as
                    a major figure in the history of Indiana and of the 
                        United States
                    .
            A British citizen, COLIN G. CALLOWAY teaches Indian
                    history at the University of 
                        Wyoming
                    , Laramie. His publications include Crown and Calumet: British-Indian
                        Relations, 1783–1815 (1987); The Abenaki (1989); and The Western Abenakis of 
                            Vermont
                        , 1600–1800: War. Migration, and the Survival of an Indian People
                    (1990). He is currently doing research on Indian experiences during the American
                Revolution.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Thomas Hart Benton and the Indiana Murals: The Making of a Masterpiece. [By
                    Kathleen A. Foster and Nanette Esseck Brewer.] (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Art Museum, 1989. Pp. [22]. Illustrations, notes, catalogue.
                    Booklet.)
            
               The Edge of Town: Painting the Indiana Scene, 1932–1948. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: 
                        Indianapolis
                     Art League, 1989. Pp. 36. Illustrations, note, painting notes, references. Booklet.)
            These two booklets from recent art exhibitions offer good testimony to the revival of interest in
                    regional art of the 1930s. Once shunned by many, Thomas Hart 
                        Benton
                    's Indiana murals, located at Indiana University, have gained a place among the
                    state's genuine artistic treasures. In his art and in his interpretation of Indiana history
                    Benton remains instructive, controversial, and challenging. Kathleen A. Foster and Nanette Esseck
                    Brewer of the Indiana University Art Museum have provided in this booklet interesting commentary on 
                        Benton
                    's Indiana murals and the preparatory drawings that he made. In The Edge of Town the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Art League brings forth Indiana artists Edmund Brucker, Grant W. Christian, Harry A.
                    Davis, E. Roger Frey, Cecil F. Head, Floyd D. Hopper, and William F. Kaeser. During the 1930s and
                    1940s these painters moved from the post-impressionist landscapes of their predecessors to more
                    realistic paintings of rural and urban scenes and of ordinary Hoosiers. Some of the most interesting
                    paintings reproduced in this catalogue depict the Hooverville shacks along White River in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Many Faces of Hull-House: The Photographs of Wallace Kirkland. Edited by Mary
                    Ann Johnson. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1989. Pp. [144]. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $34.95; paperbound, $19.95.) Before Wallace Kirkland became a successful
                    photographer for Life, he honed his skills in a series of over one thousand
                    photographs taken while he worked at Hull House in the 1920s and 1930s. This thoughtfully edited
                    collection of sixty-two of those photos is true to its title. Johnson's choices exemplify
                    the many programs and faces that were part of the settlement house. The book succeeds in its
                    goal—to reproduce for modern readers "the spirit of Hull-House." Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            The two photographs carried with the review of Major Taylor: The Extraordinary Career of
                        a Champion Bicycle Racer were incorrectly credited in the December, 1989, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History. Both pictures were reproduced courtesy of the Indiana
                    State Museum, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            Encyclopedia of 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            The POLIS Research Center at Indiana University—Purdue University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is preparing the Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , a multi-disciplinary volume intended to cover all aspects of the
                    city's history and culture. The staff welcomes suggestions of topics and contact with
                    potential contributors for this comprehensive reference work. Please send suggested topics, a brief
                    explanation of their significance, expressions of interest in preparing entries, and a summary of
                    qualifications to: Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Cavanaugh Hall 301, 425 University Boulevard, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN 46202–5140 (telephone: [317] 274–2455).
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
            Compiled by Leigh Darbee
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, books, pamphlets, and dissertions
                    published from 1985 to 1990 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but
                    that are not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or
                    accounts of local historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles
                    may be listed. All such items for the March, 1991, issue must be received by December 1, 1990. Many
                    people have contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Leigh Darbee
                    of the Indiana Historical Society.
            Alvord, Clarence Walworth, The Illinois Country, 1673–1818 (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1987). (Reprint edition.]
            
               Amberg, Stephen, "The Triumph of Industrial Orthodoxy: The Collapse of
                        Studebaker-Packard," in On the Line: Essays in the History of Auto
                        Work, eds. Nelson Lichtenstein and Stephen Meyer (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1989).
               "The Amboy Academy: The 
                            Athens
                         of 
                            Miami County
                        ," 
                            Miami County
                         Historical Society History Bulletin, XIV (January, 1988).
               Anderson, David L., "The Indiana National Guard in the Turbulent 1960s," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (December, 1989).
               "Arnold's Home: A Slice of History from Wigwams to WPA," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1989). [Home of John Arnold in 
                            Rush County
                        .]
               Baker, Frank S., More Glimpses of 
                                Hanover
                            's Past, 1827–1988 (
                            Hanover
                        , Ind., 1988). Order from: The author, Box 157, 
                            Hanover
                        , IN 47243.
               
               Baker, Jean H., "Not Much of Me": Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                             as a Typical American (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Ind.: Louis A. 
                            Warren
                            Lincoln
                         Library and Museum, 1988). Order from: Louis A. 
                            Warren
                            Lincoln
                         Library and Museum, 1300 S. Clinton St., 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , IN 46801.
               Baum, Frank Miller, The 1989 Version of "A History of 
                                Warren County
                            , Indiana" [1966] ([
                            Warren County
                        , Ind.: Baum], 1989), Order from: Baum Books, Route 1, Box 105A, West 
                            Lebanon
                        , IN 47991.
               "Benjamin E. Wallace: A Biography, 1847–1921," 
                            Miami County
                         Historical Society History Bulletin, XIV (July, 1988). [Wallace,
                        from 
                            Peru
                        , was founder of a famous circus.]
               Bernard, Paul R., "Irreconcilable Opinions: The Social and Educational Theories of
                        Robert Owen and William Maclure," Journal of the Early Republic, VIII
                        (Spring, 1988).
               Biracree, Tom, Wilma Rudolph (
                            New York
                        : Chelsea House, 1988). Order from: Taylor Publishing, Trade Books Division, 1150 W.
                        Mockingbird Ln., 
                     Dallas, TX
                   75235.
               Breen, Ed, "James Dean's Indiana: The Stage Along Sand 
                            Pike
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Fall,
                        1989).
               Brunsman, Charlotte K. and August E., "Wright and Wright, Printers: The
                        `Other' Career of Wilbur and Orville," Printing History, X
                        (1988).
               Burgman, Doreen, St. Jacobi-St. James, 1848–1988: 140 Years ([
                            Logansport
                        , Ind.?], 1988). [History of St. James Episcopal Church, 
                            Logansport
                        .]
               "C. G. Ltd.," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club, XIV (1988). [The 
                            Elkhart
                         musical instrument manufacturer.]
               [Carlson, 
                            Norman
                        , ed.], 
                     
                                Chicago
                            , South Shore & 
                                South Bend
                             Railroad: How the Medal Was Won (
                            Chicago
                        : Central Electric Railfans' Association, 1985).
               Clark, George P., ed., "Through Indiana by Stagecoach and Canal Boat: The 1843 Travel
                        Journal of Charles H. Titus," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV
                        (September, 1989).
               
                  
                     
                                Clark County
                            : [Interim Report] ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1988).
               Couch, Ernie and Jill, comps., Indiana Trivia (
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn.: Rutledge Hill Press, 1989).
               Davis, Marsh, "Covered Bridges of 
                            Rush County
                        ," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 [i.e., No. 1] (March, 1987).
               Davis, Marsh, "The Glory That Was 
                            Greece
                         Ignites Again in Indiana," Indiana Preservationist, No.
                        5 (September/October, 1989). [Greek revival architecture in the state.]
               Davis, Marsh, "How Fast Can a Toaster Go?" Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1989). [The streamlined style of architecture in
                        Indiana.]
               
               Davis, Marsh, "Of Zig-Zags and King Tut," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1989). [Art deco architecture in Indiana.]
               Dehler, Susan J., and Gary W. Daily, comps., Index to the Writings of Ida Rusted
                            Harper: The 
                                Terre Haute
                             Years (
                            Terre Haute
                        : 
                            Vigo County
                         Public Library, 1988). Order from: 
                            Vigo County
                         Public Library, One Library Sq., 
                            Terre Haute
                        , IN 47807.
               Dorrel, Ruth, and Nancy Newby, "The Union County Poorhouse in the 1860
                        Census," The Hoosier Genealogist, XXIX (March, 1989).
               Dory, William, "Ben Hur Author Parked Chariot in 
                            Crawfordsville
                        ," Indiana Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August, 1989).
               Dory, William, and Karen Kiemnec, "Historic Hoosier Mills: More Power to the
                        Revolution," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October,
                        1989).
               [Dulin, Wilma L.], "Crispus Attucks on National Register," Black History News & Notes, No. 36 (May, 1989).
               [Dulin, Wilma L.], "History of Second Baptist Church," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 37 (August, 1989).
               [Dulin, Wilma L.], "Indiana Legislator: James S. Hinton," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 37 (August, 1989).
               [Dulin, Wilma L.], "Presenting the Madame Walker Urban Life Center," Black History News & Notes, No. 35 (February, 1989).
               [Dulin, Wilma L.], "Selected Black History Collections of the Indiana Historical
                        Society," Black History News & Notes, No. 36 (May, 1989).
               [Dulin, Wilma L.], "Short Collections, Long on History," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 34 (November, 1988). [Small manuscript collections on
                        black history at the Indiana Historical Society.]
               Edmunds, R. David, "Coming of Age: Some Thoughts upon American Indian
                        History," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (December, 1989).
               Eidson, William G., Journey Down Jefferson Street: A History of the First Baptist
                            Church of 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana ([
                            Muncie
                        ?, 1987?]).
               Ellis, William Donohue, The Ordinance of 1787: The Nation Begins
                                (
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  : Landfall Press, 1987).
               Fadely, James Philip, "Editors, Whistle Stops, and Elephants: The Presidential
                        Campaign of 1936 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV
                        (June, 1989).
               Faith, Nina B., Recollections of Mauckport and Central (Privately printed,
                        [1988?]).
               Farmer, James E., ed. and comp., In Memoriam: Asa Jessup Smith,
                            1894–1973, Lawyer, 
                                Patriot
                            , Wit (
                            Indianapolis
                        : R. G. Moorhead, 1988).
               
               Farris, Bain J., St. Vincent Hospital and Health Care Center, Inc. (
                            New York
                        : Newcomen Society of the 
                            United States
                        , 1988).
               Fenno, Richard F., Jr., The Making of a Senator: Dan Quayle (
                            Washington
                        , D.C.: CQ Press, 1989). Order from: Congressional Quarterly, 1414 22nd St., NW, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C. 20077.
               Fischer, Edward, Notre Dame Remembered: An Autobiography (Notre Dame, Ind.:
                        University of Notre Dame Press, 1987).
               Font, Walter, ed., "A Personal History by Oliver Walker Jefferds, 1896," Old Fort News, LI (1988).
               Four articles on the influence of the WPA and the NYA (National Youth Administration) on
                        Indiana architecture, in Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (July, 1988).
               Frederick, David, "Cotton Mill Experiment Unravels at 
                            Cannelton
                        ," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February,
                        1989).
               Frederick, David, "Pluto Water Draws Frenchmen and FDR to Indiana," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1989).
               Gibson-Hudson, Gloria J., " `To All Classes; To All Races; This House is
                        Dedicated': The Walker Theatre Revisited," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 35 (February, 1989).
               Giffin, Marjie Gates, If Tables Could Talk (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1988). [History of the 
                            Columbia
                         Club, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .] Order from: The 
                            Columbia
                         Club, 101 Monument Circle, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46204.
               Grafton, David, Red, Hot & Rich! An Oral History of Cole Porter (
                            New York
                        : Stein & Day, 1987).
               Gray, Ralph D., "A Tangled Web: Unraveling the Strange Weavings of a Midwestern
                        Adventurer," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Spring,
                        1989). [The career of Robert George Pat(t)erson.]
               "The Great Western Auto Gave Promise of Making 
                            Peru
                         the Site of Another Giant Auto Industry," 
                            Miami County
                         Historical Society History Bulletin, XIV (February, 1988).
               Greenapple, H. R. [pseud.], comp. & ed., D.C. Stephenson, 
                                Irvington
                             0492: The Demise of the Grand Dragon of the Indiana Ku Klux Klan (
                            Plainfield
                        , Ind.: SGS Publications, 1989).
               
                  
                            Greene
                        , George E., History of 
                                Old Vincennes
                             and 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.: Whippoorwill Publications, 1988). [Reprint of 1911 edition.]
               Haffner, Gerald O., "A Hoosier Country Doctor: Dr. Harry K. Engleman's
                        Medical Ledger, 1911–1917," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXV (June, 1989).
               Hall, Bob, "The Scholar as Detective: Disentangling Fact from Fiction in Accounts of
                        Pioneer History," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (December,
                        1989).
               Hamm, Thomas D., "The Saga of Fanny Ailer," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicatalog, XVII (Fall, 1989).
               
               Hardin, Rebecca, ed., 
                     
                                Morgan County
                             Scrapbook. Vol. II (
                            Mooresville
                        : 
                            Morgan County
                         History-Genealogy Club, 1989). Order from: 
                            Morgan County
                         History-Genealogy Club, 133 Center St., 
                            Mooresville
                        , IN 46158.
               Hartman, Grover L., "The Shakers on Busseron Creek," 
                            Sullivan County
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XV (November, 1988).
               Hawfield, Diana, ed., "Margaret 
                            Hamilton
                         in Europe at the Outbreak of World War I," Old Fort
                        News, LI (1988).
               Hawfield, Michael C., Here's 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Past & Present: A Historical Perspective (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Ind.: Personal Marketing Systems, 1988). Order from: 
                            Allen County
                        -
                            Fort Wayne
                         Historical Society, 302 E. Berry St., 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , IN 46802.
               Hendricks, Thomas A., "Night and Day: The Times and Tunes of Cole Porter,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Summer and Fall, 1989).
               Hillila, Bernhard, History of the Indiana-Kentucky Synod of the Lutheran Church
                            in America, 1970–1987 (n.p.: The Indiana-Kentucky Synod, 1988). [Supplements
                        Henry G. Waltmann's 1971 history of the synod.]
               
                  Historic Area Conservation Plan: Herron-Morton Place (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Historic Preservation Commission, 1986).
               
                  History of Churches in the Portage Area, Portage, Indiana ([Portage, Ind.]:
                        Portage Community Historical Society, Inc., 1988). Order from: The Society, Portage Park
                        & Recreation Dept., 2100 Willowcreek Rd., Portage, IN 46368.
               "Home for Colored Women Seeking Employment," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club, XV (April, 1989).
               Huffman, Wallace 
                            Spencer
                        , comp., Indiana Built Automobiles, Etc. Rev. ed. (
                            Kokomo
                        , Ind.: W.S. Huffman, 1989). Order from: 
                            Auburn
                        -Cord-Duesenberg Museum, 1600 S. Wayne St., 
                            Auburn
                        , IN 46706.
               Hurley, Andrew J., "Environmental and Social Change in Gary, Indiana,
                        1945–1980" (Ph.D. dissertation, Northwestern University, 1988).
               "
                            Indianapolis
                         Art League: 54 Years of Service," Arts Indiana, X
                        (March, 1988).
               
                  The [
                                Indianapolis
                            ] Dramatic Club: The First 100 Years, 1889–1989 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1989).
               
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Remembered: Christian Schrader's Sketches of Early 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1987). Order from: Indiana Historical Bureau, 140 N.
                        Senate Ave., Room 408, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46204.
               "It's a Globe … It's a Telescope …
                        It's 
                            Knightstown
                         Academy," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June,
                        1989).
               
                  
                     
                                Jackson County
                            : [Interim Report] ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1988).
               
               Jacobs, Harvey C., Hugging the Heartland: Prideful Essays About the Place and the
                            People (
                            Evanston
                        , Ill.: The Highlander Press, 1990). Order from: The Highlander Press, 1108 Davis,
                        #104, 
                     Evanston, IL
                   60201.
               Jacobs, Tevie, "Bring a Nickel or Dime for Charity," Indiana
                            Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 25 (August, 1989).
               
                  
                     
                                Jennings County
                            : [Interim Report] (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1989).
               Jourdan, Katherine, "The Architecture of Samuel M. Plato," Black History News & Notes, No. 37 (August, 1989).
               Kaeuper, C. Edward, Remembering—With Ed (
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., 1988). [Kaeuper was editor of the 
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium-Item and author of the paper's "Newsman's
                        Notes" column.]
               
                  Kankakee River Master Plan: A Guide for Flood Control and Land Use Alternatives
                            in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : SEG Engineers & Consultants, Inc., 1989).
               Kriebel, Robert C., Old 
                                Lafayette
                            , 1811–1853 (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.: 
                            Tippecanoe County
                         Historical Association, 1988). Order from: 
                            Tippecanoe County
                         Historical Association, 909 South St., 
                            Lafayette
                        , IN 47901.
               Lane, James B., ed., "Life in the Calumet Region during the 1930s," Steel Shavings, XVII and XVIII (1989).
               
                  LaPorte County: [Interim Report] (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1989).
               Latham, Charles, Jr., "Houses and Horses the Old-Fashioned Way," 
                            Marion County
                        —
                            Indianapolis
                         Historical Society Circular, X (June, 1989). [
                            Indianapolis
                         architect Charles Latham.]
               Latham, Charles, Jr., "Madam C. J. Walker & Company," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Summer, 1989). [Biographical sketch of
                        the founder of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         black cosmetics firm.]
               Levine, Joseph, "The Boruchovicz Siddur," Indiana Jewish
                            Historical Society Publications, No. 25 (August, 1989).
               List, George, "Traditional Children's Songs and Singing Games from Southern
                        Indiana," Midwestern Folklore, XV (Spring, 1989).
               Lungren, John C., Jr., Hesburgh of Notre Dame: Priest, Educator, Public
                        Servant ([
                            Kansas City
                        ]: Sheed & Ward, 1987). Order from: Sheed & Ward, P.O. Box 414292, 
                            Kansas City
                        , MO 64141.
               Lutholtz, M. William, "Rise of Indiana Klan," 
                            Marion County
                        —
                            Indianapolis
                         Historical Society Circular, X (June, 1989).
               McDonell, Katherine Mandusic, "The Old Pathology Building: The Indiana Medical
                        History Museum's Most Priceless Artifact," Indiana Medicine,
                        LXXX (December, 1987).
               MacLean, David G., ed., Gene Stratton Porter Remembered: Reprints of Selected
                            Articles. No. 1 (
                            Decatur
                        , Ind., 1987). Order from: The Editor, P.O. Box 14, 
                            Decatur
                        , IN 46733.
               
               McMains, Howard F., "Breaking the Stream: R.H. Dabney and Gilded Age Historical
                        Study," Hayes Historical Journal, VIII (Summer, 1989).
               Madar, Andre, ed., "Life on the Water: Restored Mansions Witness the Lure of the [
                            Ohio
                        ] River," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5
                        (September/October, 1989).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "Eli Lilly: The Middle Years, 1907–1948,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Summer, 1989).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "Manufacturing Pharmaceuticals: Eli Lilly and Company,
                        1876–1948," Business and Economic History, XVIII (1989).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., " `Oh, Mama, I Smell the Business!': The Growing Up
                        Years of Eli Lilly, 1885–1907," Pharmacy in History, XXXI
                        (No. 4, 1989).
               "Marktown: A Breath of Fresh Air Amid the Mills," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1989).
               Martone, Michael, ed., A Place of Sense: Essays in Search of the Midwest (
                            Iowa City
                        : University of Iowa Press, 1988).
               Miller, Jerry, "Exodus, Marion Style," Indiana Jewish
                            Historical Society Publications, No. 25 (August, 1989).
               Miller, Jerry, "
                            Marion
                        's Chosen Few," Indiana Jewish Historical Society
                            Publications, No. 25 (August, 1989).
               Miller, Jerry, "The Temple," Indiana Jewish Historical Society
                            Publications, No. 25 (August, 1989).
               Miller, Jerry, "Up Jumped the Devil: Legendary Losers of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         500," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I
                        (Spring, 1989).
               Morse, Shirley, "The Engel Family," Indiana Jewish Historical
                            Society Publications, No. 25 (August, 1989).
               Mueller, Thomas J., and Charlotte Ames, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh: Commitment,
                            Compassion, Consecration (
                            Huntington
                        , Ind.: Our Sunday Visitor, Inc., 1989). Order from: Our Sunday Visitor, 200 Noll
                        Plaza, 
                            Huntington
                        , IN 46750.
               
                  
                            Muncie
                        , Larry, 
                     
                                Irvington
                            : Three Windows on 
                                Irvington
                             History (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society, 1989). Order from: 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society, 312 S. Downey Ave., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46219.
               Murphy, Karen, "Exodus: The Jews of 
                            Ligonier
                        ," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, November 19, 1989 (Section F).
               Myers, L. Rex, 
                     
                                Daviess County
                            , Indiana, History (Paducah, Ky.: Turner Publishing Company, 1988). [Volume
                        I.] Order from: 
                            Daviess County
                         Historical Society, P.O. Box 2341, 
                            Washington
                        , IN 47501.
               Nail, Adeline, and Val Holley, "
                            Grant County
                        's Own," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, I (Fall, 1989). [Memories of James Dean by his high school speech teacher.]
               
               Neher, Leslie I., comp., Gas City a Queen City: A Collection of Historical
                            Publications (Gas City, Ind., 1987–1988). 8 vols. [bound photocopies]
               Neher, Leslie I., comp., 
                     
                                Jonesboro
                            , Indiana: A Collection of Historical Facts Relative to the Founding of a Town
                            and It's [sic] Subsequent History (Gas City, Ind., 1988).
                        [bound photocopies]
               Nelson, Jacquelyn S., "Civil War Letters of Daniel Wooton: The Metamorphosis of a 
                            Quaker
                         Soldier," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (March,
                        1989).
               Noblitt, Loren W., The Composite History of 
                                Jackson County
                            , Indiana, 1816–1988 (Paducah, Ky.: Turner Publishing Company,
                        1988). Order from: 
                            Jackson County
                         Historical Society, 115 N. Sugar St., 
                            Brownstown
                        , IN 47220.
               Ogden, Dale, "Thunderbolt, The Ebony Streak, The Blond Terror of 
                            Terre Haute
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Winter,
                        1989). [lesser-known Indiana sports figures]
               
                  Our First One Hundred Years: The 
                                Ripley County
                             Bank, 
                                Osgood
                            , Indiana, 1887–1987 ([
                            Osgood
                        , Ind.?], 1987).
               
                  Our Hoosier Heritage: Spring Station-Chrisney Community,
                        1865–1987 (Chrisney, Ind., 1987). Order from: Heritage '88, % Leroy
                        Meyer, P.O. Box 97, Chrisney, IN 47611.
               "Out Behind Cadiz," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicatalog, XVI (Fall, 1988). [History of Cadiz, Indiana.]
               Peckham, Howard H., "Popular History and the Search for Common Ground," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Winter, 1989).
               Peebles, Christopher S., ed., Current Research in Indiana Archaeology and
                            Prehistory, 1987 & 1988 ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: Indiana University, Glenn A. Black Laboratory, 1989).
               Pierce, Merrily, "Luke Decker and Slavery: His Cases with Bob and Anthony,
                        1817–1822," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (March,
                        1989).
               "Pliny Crume and His Steam Car," 
                            Miami County
                         Historical Society History Bulletin, XV (January, 1989).
               Ratcliff, Richard P., A 
                                Henry County
                             Sampler (
                            New Castle
                        : 
                            Henry County
                         Historical Society, 1987). Order from: 
                            Henry County
                         Historical Society, 606 S. 14th St., 
                            New Castle
                        , IN 47362.
               
                  
                            Reddick
                        , David B., and Kim M. Rogers, The Magic of Indians' Baseball,
                            1887–1987 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Indians, 1988]). Order from: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Indians, Bush Stadium, 1501 West 16th St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46202.
               Reeves, Charles 
                            Monroe
                        , "Canoe & Camera," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, I (Spring, 1989). [Account of a canoe trip down the Tippecanoe and
                            Wabash rivers by the Wabash Canoe Club in 1888.]
               
               Rehmer, R. F., The Lutherans Finally Came—To 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana (West 
                            Lafayette
                        , 1989).
               Rhodes, Benjamin D., "Governor James P. Goodrich of Indiana and the `Plain
                        Facts' about Russia, 1921–1933," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXV (March, 1989).
               Rugeley, Terry, "Savage and Statesman: Changing Historical Interpretations of
                        Tecumseh," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (December, 1989).
               Ruhe, Esther, and Peter Youngman, Post Office History of Portage Township, 
                                Porter County
                            , Indiana ([Portage]: Portage Community Historical Society, 1988). Order
                        from: Portage Community Historical Society, Portage Parks & Recreation Dept., 2100
                        Willowcreek Rd., Portage, IN 46368.
               
                  
                     
                                Rush County
                            : [Interim Report] ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1988).
               
                  Saint Matthew United Church of Christ, Lynnville, Indiana,
                        1862–1987 (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., 1987).
               Salter, Mary Ann, and Carlton G. Christenson, Remembering: A History of the First
                            Baptist Church of 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, 1838–1988 (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1988).
               Schlup, Leonard, "Thomas R. Marshall and Wabash College," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXIV (December, 1988).
               Seigel, Peggy Erase, "Eliza George, Civil War Nurse," Old Fort
                            News, L (1987).
               Sharp, Ronald, and Joan Sharp, Kosciusko Men in the Civil War (
                            Syracuse
                        , Ind.: Sharp's News Service, 1988). 2 vols. Order from: Sharp's
                        News Service, 313 N. Indiana Ave., 
                            Syracuse
                        , IN 46567.
               Taft, William, "From Tired Feet to Tires: Tracing Hoosier Hostelries," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1989).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "Panaceas from Duneland: Bruce Calvert and The
                            Open Road" Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Winter, 1989).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "Traveling 
                            Brown County
                        : Introducing Indiana: A New Historical Guide," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, I (Fall, 1989).
               Thompson, Charles N., Sons of the Wilderness: John and William Conner, 2nd
                        ed. (
                            Noblesville
                        : Conner 
                            Prairie
                         Press, 1988). [Reprint edition] Order from: Guild Press, 6000 Sunset Ln., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46208.
               Thompson, Donald E., "Elston Family Made Mark in Business, Real Estate," Montgomery Magazine, XIV (March, 1989).
               Thompson, Donald E., "Elston Had Spirit of Adventure in His Early Years,"
                            Montgomery Magazine, XIV (April, 1989).
               Thompson, Donald E., "GAR Was Fast Growing Organization for Veterans," Montgomery Magazine, XIV (August, 1989).
               
               Thompson, Donald E., "Lew Wallace and Ben Hur," Indiana
                            Libraries, VII (1988).
               Thompson, Donald E., "Lyons Music Company Celebrating 74th Year," Montgomery Magazine, XIV (May, 1989).
               Thompson, Richard H., "A Mexican Revolutionary from Notre Dame: A Note," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (September, 1989).
               "Unique Henry Countians," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicatalog, XVII (Fall, 1989).
               The 
                            United States
                         Geological Survey, National Gazetteer of the 
                                United States
                             of America: Indiana, 1988 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1988).
               Vandermeer, Philip R., "Bosses, Machines, and Democratic Leadership: Party
                        Organization and Managers in Indiana, 1880–1910," Social
                            Science History, XII (Winter, 1988).
               Vick, John E., "The Pioneer: A History of the Crippled Children's Camp and
                        Its Founder," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XVII (Fall, 1989).
               Volpe, V#2 L., " `Dispute Every Inch of Ground': Major General Lew Wallace
                        Commands 
                            Cincinnati
                        , September, 1862," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV
                        (June, 1989).
               Vonnegut, Clemens, Versuch eines Leitfadens zum Unterricht in der Sittenlehre im
                            freidenkerischen Sinne fur Erwachsene (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Richard C. Vonnegut, 1989). [Reprint of 1890 edition of Vonnegut's work
                        on Free Thought.] Order from: Richard C. Vonnegut, 710 East 58th St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46220.
               Wakefield, Dan, "A Writing Life," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, I (Winter, 1989).
               "The Walker: Mixing Business with Culture," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1989). [The Madam C. J. Walker Company building in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               
                  
                            Warren
                        , Charles R., "Indiana: New Institutions for Economic Strategy,"
                        in The New Economic Role of American States: Strategies in a Competitive World
                            Economy, ed. R. Scott Fosler (
                            New York
                        , 1988).
               Wertheim, Lewis J., "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Treason Trials, the Elections of 1864, and the Power of the Partisan
                        Press," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXV (September, 1989).
               Whisman, Charley, Highlights of the History of the School for the Deaf [
                                Indianapolis
                            ], 1843–1944 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ], 1988). Order from: The author, 4316 Carrollton Ave., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46205.
               Witcher, Curt Bryan, Bibliography of Sources for Black Family History in the 
                                Allen County
                             Public Library Genealogy Department ([
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Ind.], 1986). Order from: 
                            Allen County
                         Public Library, P.O. Box 2270, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , IN 46801.
               
               Woodward, Ronald L., "White's Indiana Manual Labor Institute," The Hoosier Genealogist, XXIX (September, 1989).
               Yoder, Margaret K., ed., The Life and Times of Menno S. Yoder,
                            1863–1952: The Story of a Mennonite Family (Colorado Springs, Colo.: M. K.
                        Yoder, 1989). [A family in La Grange County.] Order from: The author, 14620 Timberedge Lane,
                        Colorado Springs, CO 80921.
               Zach, Karen, "Farmers [sic] Cooperative Creamery Opened in
                        1924," Montgomery Magazine, XIV (August, 1989).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
