
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 28, Issue 3, pages 223-324. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:28+issue:3+year:1932&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Jonathan Jennings
            By DOROTHY RIKER
            Jonathan Jennings is not widely known although he was the first Governor of the state of Indiana,
                    served as territorial delegate to Congress, and later as a member of the national House of
                    Representatives, Coming to Indiana in 1807, when he was but twenty-three years old, he held high
                    public office for more than twenty years.
            The birthplace of Jennings is not definitely known but it was probably in Hunterdon County, 
                        New Jersey
                    . The year was 1784.1 That same year his father, who was a
                    physician, became a minister of the Dutch Reformed Church. Jonathan's mother, the daughter
                    of Samuel Kennedy, a Presbyterian minister at Basking Ridge, 
                        New Jersey
                    , was well educated. Kennedy also practiced medicine. There were seven other children in
                    the family besides Jonathan, five boys and two girls. While Jonathan was still a boy the family
                    moved to 
                        Fayette County
                     in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     where the father accepted a position as minister of the Dunlap's Creek Church.
                    Mrs. Jennings died very shortly before the family moved to their new home.2
            
            The family ties were very close and even though the different members became widely separated they
                    did not lose touch with each other. The bond between Jonathan and his sister Ann, who was next to
                    him in age, was an especially close one judging from the letters he wrote to her and her husband,
                    David G. Mitchell.3 letter written in 1806 upon the occasion 
                  
                     1 Logan Esarey, "Biographical Sketch" of Jennings,
                            in Messages and Papers of Jaucthan Jennings, Ratliff Boon, William Hendricks
                                (Governor's Messages and Letters, III, Indiana Historical
                                Collectione, XII, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), 27; Joy Juiian Bailey, "Jonathan Jennings: Indiana's
                            First Governor" (Mss. in Indiana State Library) 3;William H. Jennings, A Genealogical History of the Jennings Families in 
                                    England
                                 and America (
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1899), II, 200.
                  
                     2 Jennings, Genealopical History, II, 186-187.
                  
                     3 Several of these are published in Unedited Letters of
                                Jonathan Jenninos (Indiana Historical Society, Publications, X,
                            No. 4, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1932).
               
                     of his sister's marriage is full of solicitation and
                    hope that she may be happy, with some advice which he must have garnered from his observations of
                    other married people since he was then unmarried himself. Being as applicable today as then it is
                    worth quoting in part: 
                        You as well as myself know that human nature is prone to err…. That the marriage
                            state frees no one from the bonds of nature…. Thus have I known those who after
                            marriage have lived years together, as happy as happy could be, afterward lived miserably
                            all their lives. Let me offer this one thing to you as being the most able to affect
                            it…. be sure the first [time] any coolness takes place, as there always does
                            sooner or later between man and wife, remove the cause instantly and instead of having bad
                            effects, it will tend rather to cement your affections.4
                  
                    
            
            Jonathan's love for his elder brother Ebenezer is shown under quite different circumstances.
                    Upon learning of the serious illness of his brother he wrote: 
                        It brings afresh to memory the scenes, when he stood over my expected Death Bed, with an
                            unremitted attention would to God that I could watch his declining days, his departing
                            moments, and take his last assurance of the friendship of which his heart was so
                            susceptible.
                        Tell him a long farewell; bid a long, a sad & last adieu for a Brother who holds him
                            near his heart.5
                  
                    
            
            Following his brother's death, Jonathan's regard for him was shown in a more
                    material way. After a few years, he took his orphaned nephew, whose mother had also died, and
                    brought him up in his own home and educated him.6
            
            These close ties of kinship also extended to the stepmother. A short time after the death of his
                    father we find him writing to his brother-in-law that "if an opportunity offers, it would
                    oblige me if you would pay ten dollars to our step-mother. I had not money to leave her for the
                    purpose of harvesting and I expect she will want before I can return."7
            
            The father was very anxious that his sons should enjoy all the educational advantages possible.
                    Jonathan attended elementary school at home and then the grammar school at Cannonsburg, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where he received some instruction 
                  
                     4 Jenninga to David G. Mitchell, Steubenville, January 16, 1806, in
                                Ibid., 158.
                  
                     5 Jenninga to 
                        Mitchell, Jeffersonville
                     ,
                            December 1, 1808, in ibid., 165.
                  
                     6 Jennings, Genealogical History, II, 219.
                  
                     7 Jenninga to 
                                Mitchell
                            , Washingtan, June 10, 1818, in Uneditsd Letters of Jennings,
                            202.
               
                     in Latin and Greek, and in higher mathematics. Two of his
                    classmates there were William Wick and William Hendricks,8 both of whom later
                    became prominent in Indiana. After attending grammar school, Jonathan probably studied law in
                            
                  Washington, Pennsylvania
               , in the office of John Simonson. In the early part of
                    1806 we find him in Steubenville where his brother Obadiah had established a law office. At the
                    close of that year he writes of having been "down the 
                        Ohio
                     almost all summer." It was probably then that he made his first visit to
                    Indiana territory. The question of where to locate was then uppermost in his mind. He thought for a
                    time that he might to 
                        Virginia
                     where another brother had located and was urging him to do likewise.9 The lure of the West, however, was great enough to overbalance the advantages of living in a
                    settled community, and by the spring of 1807, we find him located in 
                        Vincennes
                    , which was then the capital and most important town in Indiana territory.
            Jennings was admitted to the practice of law in 
                        Vincennes
                     at the April term of court, 1807.10 While waiting for business, he
                    acted as clerk in the land office11 and as an assistant clerk to the territorial
                        Legislature.12 His excellent penmanship no doubt aided him in securing these
                    positions. Some of his observations on 
                        Vincennes
                     are very interesting: 
                        My prospects meet my expectations, but the place is full of rascals and &c. I have
                            been very near fighting a duel with the Clerk of the General Court, but he thought proper to
                            make concessions.
                    
            
            A few months later he writes: 
                        God only knows when we shall meet again, as life is but a lottery, duelling and principles of
                            honour are ever more regarded the fa[r]ther you go to the Southard….
                        I worked my way so well, that, I was very near being Clerk to the House of Representatives of
                            the Territory, and I believe I might have been elected, had I played a double part, but
                            being under promise on certain conditions not to offer; I could not reconcile it to myself
                            to offer, and thereby wound my promise.13
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  8
                        Indiana Magazine of History, XIX, 263.
               
                  9 Jennings to 
                            Mitchell
                        . Steubenville, August 18, 1806, in Unedited Letters of Jennings,
                        161.
               
                  10 Territorial Court Record, April, 1807.
               
                  11 Jacob P. Dunn. Indiana: A Redemptiolt from Slavery (
                            Boston
                         and 
                            New York
                        . 1905), 889; Jennings to 
                     Mitchell,
                                Jeffersonville
                  , December 1, 1808, in
                            Unedited Letter of Jennings. 167.
               
                  12
                        Laws of Indiana Territms, 1808, 41. He also worked six days copying parts of
                        the revised code. ibid., 1807, 537.
               
                  13 Jennings to 
                     Mitchell,
                                Vincennes
                  , June 27 and September 19,
                        1807, in Unedited Letters of Jennings, 162-63.
            
            
            Regardless of having been so successful in working his way thus far he was not content. His
                    adventuresome mind was continually conceiving new plans for gaining wealth. Within two or three
                    months time we find him talking of launching a mercantile enterprise whereby he would furnish cotton
                    material, whiskey, etc. to the merchants of 
                  Brownsville, Pennsylvania
               , and
                    surrounding towns,14 or again, in the event of war with 
                        England
                     he was determined to risk all he could get together and run a contraband cargo to the
                    neutral isles 15 Another scheme that he had was a more natural one, and one well
                    known in any new territory, that of speculating on the sale of public lands. He tried to interest
                    the other members of his family in its possibilities so that they would advance him funds for the
                    purpose, promising to pay them a certain per cent of all profits gained.16 His
                    activities along this line turned out disastrously, however. After purchasing land at the public
                    sales, he became ill and unable to work during several months, and in order to raise money was
                    forced to sell the land at a great discount.17
            
            An institution known as 
                        Vincennes
                     University had been organized in 1806. At a meeting held on August 17, 1807, Jennings
                    was appointed clerk pro tem of the board of trustees to succeed General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston who had resigned. At the same meeting, the resignation of Governor William
                    Henry Harrison, who had been president of the board, was received. On August 29 Jennings was elected
                    permanent clerk, and on September 12 Harrison was reëlected a member of the board and
                    also president. At the next meeting, held April 4, 1808, with Harrison in the chair, a committee was
                    appointed to inquire into the conduct of Jennings as clerk of the board of trustees.18
            
            Incidentally some light is thrown on Jennings' difficulties with the board by a group of
                    anonymous communications that appeared in the Western Sun at this time. The first
                    of these was in the form of a sarcastic "Dedication" of a pamphlet previously
                    issued by General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston and Luke Decker in which they had defended the election of Davis Floyd 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., June 27, 1807, 161-162.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., September 19, 1807, 162.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 164.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., December 1, 1808, 167.
                  
                     18 The information relative to the Proceedings of the board of
                            trustees is taken from a copy of the Minutea kindly sent the author by Howard R. Burnett,
                            who is preparing a history of 
                                Vincennes
                             University.
               
                     as clerk of the House of Representatives at the recent session
                    of the Legislature. Jennings had certified the pamphlet and was criticized for so doing.19
            
            The reply to this communication, written by "Sand and Rosin," probably Johnston and
                    Decker, shows that differences had developed among the University trustees over a motion to curtail
                    the use of the Commons by the French inhabitants.20 It was opposed by Johnston
                    and other members and was defeated. Although Johnston had apparently won his fight, he resigned and
                    drew up a statement of the proceedings of the board upon the subject, which he got Jennings, as
                    clerk protem, to certify. "Sand and Rosin" stated that there was
                    a political persecution of Jennings in the April 4 meeting of the board of trustees and that a
                    resolution was introduced and seconded by the anonymous author of the "Dedication"
                    to expel Jennings for providing the certification for the pamphlet. There is no record of this
                    resolution in the available minutes of the board. The action of the trustees was: "On
                    Motion, Ordered, that a Committee be appointed to inquire into the conduct of J. Jennings as Clerk
                    of the Board of Trustees, and report at meeting to be held on the last Saturday of June."
                    There is no record in the preserved minutes of a meeting held on the designated date or of a report
                    by this committee.
            In the meeting of May 21, 1808, John D. Hay was appointed clerk pro tem of the
                    board of trustees. Jennings' resignation as clerk was received and read, and Hay elected
                    permanent clerk, at the meeting on November 21, 1808. By this time Jennings had removed to 
                        Clark County
                    .
            These incidents are of significance in view of the later hostility of Jennings to Harrison. Perhaps
                    the later location of the state seminary at 
                        Bloomington
                     instead of at 
                        Vincennes
                     may have resulted from this animosity. But the records, in so far as they are
                    available, disclose nothing definite about the relations of Harrison and Jennings on the board of
                    trustees. The inquiry into the conduct of Jennings as clerk seems to be based on his action in
                    certifying the pamphlet dealing with the proceedings of the board, but the information is so meager
                    that no definite statement can be made.
            
               
                  19
                        Western Sun, April 6, 1808.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., April 20, 1808. At a meeting held on August 16, 1807, the French
                        inhabitants of 
                            Vincennes
                        , having received information from Johnston of the proceedings of the trustees,
                        passed resolutions asking the Legislature to repeal the existing laws respecting the Commons and
                        pass othrs authorizing th French inhabitants to enclose and embank the lands. Ibid., August 22, 1807.
            
            
            During the latter part of 1808 Jennings left 
                        Vincennes
                     and went to 
                        Clark County
                    , first stopping in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and later making his permanent home near 
                        Charlestown
                    . The reason given for this removal was that during the fall and winter of 1807 and 1808
                    he was sick and unable to attend to business of any kind.21 In view of his later
                    career, one is tempted to believe that after staying in 
                        Vincennes
                     for a year and a half and sizing up the political situation, he saw that there was a
                    better chance for himself in the eastern part of the territory. Also, he believed that the capital
                    would be removed from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Clark County
                     within a year or two.22 The story is told that in a conversation
                    between Jennings and Nathaniel Ewing, his former chief in the land office, which probably took place
                    on the occasion of a visit of Jennings to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1809, Ewing said, "Look us up a candidate for Congress", to which
                    Jennings responded–"Why wouldn't I do?" After considering the
                    matter, Ewing believed that Jennings might have a fair chance of success if he was acceptable to the
                    voters of the eastern part of the territory.23
            
            Here it will be well to get a brief glimpse of the political situation in Indiana in the spring of
                    1809. Congress had just passed a law separating 
                        Illinois
                     territory from Indiana, and had also given the people the power to elect the delegate
                    to Congress and the councillors who were to form the upper branch of the territorial Legislature.
                    The division of the territory had a significant effect on the slavery question which was then most
                    important. The Ordinance of 1787 contained the famous anti-slavery provision, but when Indiana
                    territory was organized in 1800 the sentiment of the people was favorable toward the peculiar
                    institution. Slaves were held in many parts of the territory, having been brought in by masters who
                    emigrated here from slave-holding states. Between 1800 and 1805 several petitions were presented to
                    Congress by the settlers asking for a repeal of the antislavery clause of the Ordinance, but
                    Congress paid no heed to them. After 1805 the people turned to the territorial government for aid in
                    bringing in slaves. The so-called "servant act" was passed which virtually
                    legalized slavery in Indiana territory. With the removal of the 
                        Illinois
                     group from the politics of Indiana 
                  
                     21 Jennings to 
                                Mitchell
                            , December 1, 1808, in Unedited Letters of Jennings. 167.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid.,165.
                  
                     23 Dunn, Indiana, 390. Knowledae of the incident
                            came to Mr. Dunn through the family of Isaac Naylor to whom Ewhg related it.
               
                     territory, the large proslavery element was greatly diminished.
                    This, together with the growth of settlements in the eastern part of Indiana which were largely
                    composed of antislavery elements, brought the latter forces into the ascendancy for the first time.
                    When Ewing asked Jennings to look up a candidate for Congress from the eastern part of the
                    Territory, he meant an antislavery candidate.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     was the stronghold of the proslavery group as the majority of the slaves were in that
                    vicinity. The candidates for Congress from that section were Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     and John Johnson. 
                        Randolph
                    , the friend of Governor Harrison, comprehended the importance of the rising antislavery
                    feeling and tried to get away from his former proslavery position. If elected he promised not to
                    attempt to introduce slavery unless instructed to do so by a decided majority of his
                        constituents.24 During the contest, Johnson was quiet on the slavery
                        question,25 but many of the proslavery group, disgusted with 
                        Randolph
                    's conciliatory attitude toward the antislavery forces gave their support to
                    Johnson.
            After talking with Ewing, Jennings interviewed the political leaders in Clark and 
                        Dearborn
                     counties. There was quite a proslavery element in the southern portion of 
                        Dearborn county
                    , but in the northern part and in 
                        Clark County
                    , there was a number of 
                        Quaker
                     settlements, Here the antislavery advocates were strong and they were getting ready to
                    put a candidate in the field. After some consultations Jennings was accepted as the antislavery
                    candidate for Congress.
            Several stories of his campaign methods as contrasted with those of 
                        Randolph
                     have been handed down to us. During a log rolling on the farm of David Reese in
                            
                  Dearborn County, Randolph
                came riding up on horseback and was invited to stop. He
                    dismounted and accepted the invitation to go to the house and wait for an opportunity to address the
                    men at quitting time. The next day Jennings came by and upon receiving a similar invitation,
                    replied, "Send a boy up with my horse, and I'll help roll." After the
                    work was finished for the day, Jennings not only talked politics but entered into the sports of the
                    occasion, always being careful to let the men defeat him.26 And so he continued
                    from house to house making friends 
                  
                     24
                            Westem Sun, April 16, 1809.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., April 22, 1809.
                  
                     26 Dunn. Indiana, 385-386.
               
                     wherever he went, Even an opponent admitted that
                    "wherever Jennings goes he draws all men to him."27
            
            The result of the election was as follows: Jennings, 428 votes, 
                        Randolph
                    , 402, and Johnson, 81. Jennings proceeded to 
                        Washington
                     and was seated as a delegate to Congress from Indiana territory on November 27, 1809. 
                        Randolph
                     also went to 
                        Washington
                     to contest the election, alleging irregularity in regard to part of the returns from 
                        Dearborn County
                     where Jennings had a majority, and proving that no election had been held in two
                    precincts of that county. The committee to which the matter was referred reported back to the House
                    that the election was illegal and that Jennings' seat ought to be vacated. Contrary to
                    common procedure the House refused to accept the report and Jennings was permitted to remain.28 He had fully expected that another election would be necessary so that the
                    outcome gave him considerable satisfaction. 
                        Randolph
                     was so certain of a decision adverse to his competitor that he had returned to Indiana
                    and started campaigning.29
            
            Jennings was reelected as territorial delegate in 1811, 1812, and 1814. In 1811 
                        Randolph
                     was again his opponent, but, in 1812 and 1814, Jennings defeated Waller Taylor and
                    Judge Elijah Sparks, respectively. During the time that he served as a delegate, Jennings took no
                    prominent part in the discussion of problems before the country, but tried to look after the
                    interests of his constituents as best he could. A large part of his work pertained to relief for
                    those who had bought land and were in danger of losing it because of inability to make payments
                    under the well known credit system provided in the Land Act of 1800. On a resolution to prolong the
                    time of payment for those who had purchased land before April, 1809, Jennings pointed out that the
                    state of things had cut off from the people the means whereby they had calculated to make payments,
                    and although the extension of payment was, in principle, objectionable, circumstances imperiously
                    called for it. He also favored having each quarter-section of land divided and the price reduced,
                    pointing out that more money would accrue under that system and that it would be paid with greater
                        certainty.30
            
            
               
                  27 William Weslw Woollen, Biographical and Hiatmkal Sketches
                            of Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883), 30.
               
                  28
                        Annals of Congress, 11 Con., 2 Sess., 682, 683, 844-848, 1172-1173, 1199.
               
                  29 Jennings to 
                     Mitchell,
                                Washington
                  . January 16, 1810, in Unedited Letters of, Jennings, 173-174.
               
                  30
                        Annals of Congress. 12 Cong., 2. Sess., 150-151.
            
            
            Jennings looked after the protection of the territory from Indian raids by securing the passage of a
                    bill providing for the organization of four additional companies of Rangers. Provision was made for
                    allowing the citizens of the territory to volunteer for this service, with the assurance that they
                    would not be called upon to leave the territory thus exposing their own homes to 'Indian
                    depredations. The Indiana delegate was active in looking after the many details connected with the
                    pay of these Rangers as well as securing compensation for those who took part in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and who had served after that to protect the territory.31
            
            Jennings also presented several resolutions intended to diminish Harrison's appointive
                    power, contending that the Governor had built up a party headed by his friends and devoted to his
                    personal interests. Especially in the judicial department, where the Governor appointed the sheriff
                    and that official in turn the jury, was there chance for corruption. To remedy this a bill was
                    reported providing for the election of the sheriffs by the qualified voters and for an appeal from
                    the territorial courts to those of the federal government.32 His constituents
                    instructed him to present a petition complaining of the arbitrary conduct of Governor Harrison in
                    vetoing a bill for the removal of the capital from Vincenne.33 Jennings believed
                    that Harrison's policy of making small purchases of territory from the Indians in the
                    eastern part of the territory and very large ones in the western part was followed in order to get a
                    large population in that district and prevent the removal of the seat of government.34
            
            The subject of roads was very important in any new territory. As a delegate to Congress, Jennings
                    introduced resolutions looking toward the building of roads between 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , between 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Detroit
                    , and from a point on the northern boundary of the Greenville Treaty Line to North Bend, 
                        Ohio
                    .35
            
            Meanwhile, Jennings had increased his popularity among the people at home by his marriage to Ann Hay
                    of 
                        Charlestown
                    
                    
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 823 12 Cong., 2 Sess., 144: 13 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            1502. See also Unedited Letters of Jennings, 186-187, 204-206, 208-209,
                            and 211.
                  
                     32
                            Annals of Congrees, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 372. 420.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 846.
                  
                     34 Jennings to [Solomon Manwaring], March 6, 1812, in Messages and
                            Letters of William Henry Harrison, edited by Logan Esarey (Governors'
                                Masages and Letters, II, Indiana Historical Collections. IX. 
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1922). 28.
                  
                     35
                            Annals of Congress, 11 Cong., 487. 880; 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 348-349.
               
                     on August 8, 1811. She accompanied him to 
                        Washington
                     during his second term in office, making the long trip on horseback. She often went
                    with him on his campaign trips. When malaria was prevalent and many of the people fell ill she would
                    go in the homes and do what she could for them.36
            
            Jennings was evidently subject to periods of discouragement during which time he would give vent to
                    such remarks as these: 
                        I shall be happy soon to enjoy the balance of my time in a retirement where neither poverty
                            or riches, good or bad fame shall be able to disturb, improperly, my retreat.
                        A patriot. What a great yet empty name?!! A Dives, How pleasing and yet how sub[t]le the idea
                            & pursuit to equal?!!! An honest man. None more nobly good and none more really
                            great. Except the Paul like Christian.
                        To be happy in this world is far beyond my expectations, so much so that I scarcely wish it.
                            To be contented is my greatest ambition.37
                  
                    
            
            In December, 1815, Jennings presented a petition from the territorial Legislature asking that
                    statehood be granted. The census taken that year had shown a population of over sixty-three
                    thousand, which was more than the Ordinance of 1787 required. The bill as reported by Jennings early
                    in January, 1816, designated the northern boundary of the proposed state to be a line running east
                    and west through the extreme soiithern tip of Lake Michigan, while the final
                    act passed by Congress designated a line running east and west through a point ten miles north of
                    and paralell to one tangent of the extreme southern end of Lake Michigan. At
                    just what stage of the passage this change was made or who was responsible for it is not definitely
                    known, but Jennings no doubt aided in securing this additional territory for Indiana.38 The Enabling Act was finally passed on April 11, 1816, over three months after it had
                    been introduced. It provided that an election of delegates to a constitutional convention should be
                    held on May 13. Jsnnings was elected a delegate from 
                        Clark County
                     and when the convention met he was chosen to preside over it. His experience in
                    Congress was no doubt largely responsible for his receiving this honor. The delegates completed
                    their work 
                  
                     36 Mabel Morrison, Ann Gilmore Hay (n.p., 1925). 12.
                            14, 15-16.
                  
                     37 Jennines to 
                        Mitchell, Washington
                     . May
                            81, 1815, in Unedited Letters of Jennings, 199.
                  
                     38 See Mrs. Frank J. Sheehan. The Northern Boundary of
                                Indiana (Indiana Historical Society, Publications. VIII, No. 6. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1928), 295-301, for a discussion of the subject.
               
                     in nineteen days and immediately afterwards writs were issued
                    for the election of officers under the new governmeat.
            Jennings and Thomas Posey were the candidates for governor. The latter had served as territorial
                    Governor since 1813, but was not especially popular. 
                        Ill
                    health had made it necessary for him to live in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     rather than in Corydon while governor and thus he lost some of the contacts that might
                    have aided him in his candidacy for the governorship of the state. Jennings had the advantage over
                    Posey because he had been before the public longer and was more of a politician. He continued his
                    usual method of campaigning, joining in the work of the men he stopped to see. As the pioneers
                    opposed electioneering, his activities had to be disguised as much as possible. When he dropped in
                    at a meeting, militia muster, or log rolling, he was always "on his way" to some
                    other place.39 He was elected governor by a large majority.
            Space will not permit more than a cursory glance at his activities while governor. His messages to
                    the General Assembly were well written. His first one begins as follows: 
                        The period has arrived which has devolved on you the important duty of giving the first
                            impulse to the government of the state. The result of your deliberations will be considered
                            as indicative of its future character as well as the future happiness and prosperity of its
                            citizens. The reputation of the state, as well as its highest interest, will require that a
                            just and generous policy toward the general government and a due regard to the rights of its
                            members respectively, should invariably have their proper influence 40
                  
                    
            
            Some of the measures set forth as advisable for the new government were: the establishment of a court
                    procedure that would make the securing of justice swift and certain; the organization of an
                    educational system extending from the common schools to a state university; the organization of a
                    banking system; the prevention of unlawful attempts to seize and carry into slavery negroes legally
                    entitled to their freedom; the organization of a state library; and the formulaton of a plan of
                    internal improvements.
            The letters to his sister and brother-in-law are less frequent during this period. In one he made the
                    comment 
                        I hold an office, considered honourable, but I know it to be capable of yielding but little
                            satisfaction.
                        
                     
                        39
                                Messages and Papers of Jennings, Boon ad Hendricks, 18.
                     
                        40
                                House Journal, 1816-17, 10.
                  
                        
                        How mysterious are the events of time under the guidance of an all wise beneficent
                            providence. The great empheron of creation, man, expects much and realizes little in this
                            life but anxiety, pain and fatigue.41
                  
                    In another letter he writes, "My situation is not very pleasant. I am too young for
                    the situation I occupy. It excites too much jealousy."42
            
            During the second year of his governorship Jennings was appointed a commissioner along with Lewis
                    Cass and Benjamin Parke to negotiate a treaty with the Indians to effect the extinguishment of the
                    Indian title to land in northern Indiana and elsewhere. He accepted the appointment and proceeded to
                    St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    , where the treaty was to be made. Since the state constitution forbade any person
                    holding office under the 
                        United States
                     to exercise the duties of Governor, his enemies took advantage of the opportunity to
                    claim that he had vacated his office by accepting the appointment. Christopher Harrison, the
                    lieutenant governor, believing or hoping that the office had been vacated, began to exercise the
                    duties of Governor. Meanwhile, Jennings refused to accept this view of the situation, and upon his
                    return to Corydon claimed the office. In defense of his action he said: "I acted from an
                    entire conviction of its propriety, and an anxious desire on my part to promote the welfare and
                    accomplish the wishes of the whole people of the state in assisting to add a large and fertile tract
                    of country to that which we already possess."43 After considerable
                    discussion in the Legislature, that body refused to institute impeachment proceedings against
                    Governor Jennings. He must have felt fully vindicated the next year when the people
                    reëlected him as governor by a large majority over his opponent Christopher Harrison.
            During his second administration, the state banking system which had been organized proved unsound.
                    The revenue of the state proved to be deficient and a loan was secured from the State Bank at 
                        Vincennes
                    . In order to meet the payment of the loan the Legislature passed an act authorizing the
                    reception of the paper of the State Bank and its branches for taxes. In the meantime, the Bank
                    transferred the state obligations to the 
                        United States
                     in payment of a debt due the government and suspended redemption of her notes, thus
                    leaving 
                  
                     41 Jenninoa to 
                                Mitchell
                            , Corydon, March 17, 1817, in Unedited Letters of Jennings,
                            218-219.
                  
                     42 Jennings to 
                                Mitchell
                            , Condon, May 28, 1818. in ibid., 228. He was then 84.
                  
                     43
                            Messages and Papers of Jennings, Boon and Hendricks, 61
               
                     the state treasury full of depreciated, worthless money. An
                    issue of state treasury notes was resorted to but these also depreciated. Jennings was severely
                    criticized for his failure to supervise the Bank and his refusal to instigate an investigation
                    earlier. Other states were having similar experiences at the same time due to the panic of 1819. The
                    blame must be placed more on the general ignorance of economic laws and the dishonesty of some of
                    the men in charge of the Bank rather than on the conduct of the governor. He suffered from the
                    effects as well as others. His salary of $1,000 in sound currency amounted to only
                    $600 in the depreciated currency. His expenses incurred while in office were more than
                    double his salary and involved him in debts from which he was never able to recover.44
            
            The constitution provided that the governor should not serve more than two terms. Shortly before his
                    second term was to expire, Jennings resigned to become a candidate for representative in Congress in
                    place of William Hendricks, who, in turn, became a candidate for Governor. Jennings'
                    enemies had handbills printed bearing a list of charges in regard to his conduct but he was able to
                    refute these in a satisfactory manner and win the election.45 He continued to be
                    reelected to this office from the second congressional district until 1830. Twice he was a candidate
                    for the 
                        United States
                     Senate but was both times defeated.46
            
            During this period in Congress the problem of internal improvements was much discussed. In 1819
                    Congress appropriated $250,000 to complete the Cumberland or National Road, now known as
                    U.S. Road 40, to Wheeling, and pledged the two per cent land sales fund of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     to return the amount to the 
                        United States
                     Treasury. During the session of 1824-25, a bill was introduced providing for another
                    large appropriation to continue the road to 
                  Zanesville, Ohio
               . During the
                    course of the debate on the subject Jennings spoke many times. He did not consider it fair to the
                    states of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     that the two per cent derived from the sale of public lands in those states should be
                    pledged to pay for a road that might never reach that far west. He introduced an amendment to the
                    effect that before any further pledges were 
                  
                     44 John H. B. Nowland, Sketches of Prominent Citizens of
                                1876, (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1877).
                  
                     45 See Unedited Letters of Jennings, 236-246.
                  
                     46
                            Indiana Magazine of Hiatory, XXIII, 383.
               
                     made provision should be made to locate and survey the road
                    westward to the 
                        Mississippi
                    , so that the states of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     would have some assurance that the road would ultimately benefit them. The amendment
                    came to a vote on January 17, 1825, and was rejected. The following day, however, it was
                    reconsidered and adopted by a large majority.47
            
            Another internal improvement project furthered by Jennings was the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal. He was able to get a bill passed reserving from sale a portion of the
                    public lands through which the canal would be built and granting a part of such lands for the cost
                    of construction of the canal. In one of his speeches made during the progress of the bill, Jennings
                    adverted to the opinion of 
                        Washington
                     in favor of this and other western water communications.48 He also
                    aided in securing an appropriation to survey the obstructions in the Wabash
                    River looking toward their ultimate removal so that this important route of travel might
                    be open to steam boats all the year round.49
            
            In 1825, when the election of president was thrown into the House of Representatives, Jennings voted
                    for Jackson although personally, according to one author, he favored Adam50
                    Previous to the ballotting he wrote home asking that the votes for President in each and every
                    county in Indiana be forwarded to him.51 Both the popular and elector vote of
                    the state was for Jackson, and it is probable that Jennings used this information to determine what
                    his vote should be. As a member of Congress, he voted with Jackson's followers for the most
                    part. At home, however, he was not considered a strong enough Jackson man to be elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate.52
            
            On several occasions Jennings expressed his disapproval of the methods being used in the passage of
                    bills. One instance concerned the investigation of land surveyors' expenses. Jennings
                    asserted that since most of those favoring the bill were doing so because they wanted the conduct of
                    a certain surveyor-general investigated, they ought to get directly at their 
                  
                     47
                            Annals of Congress. 18 Cong., 2 Sess., 196 204-206, 240-241, 246, 261.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 18 Cons., 1 Sess., 2601, 8262-8258.
                  
                     49 A report prepared by Jenninm and the other members of Congress from
                            Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             on the subject is given in Unedited Letters of Jennings,
                            265-267.
                  
                     50 Adam Leonard, "Personal Politics in Indiana,
                            1816-1840," in Indiana Magazine of History, XIX, 35.
                  
                     51 Jennings to 
                                Mitchell
                            , Funks Town, Md., December 1, 1824, in Unedited Letters of
                                Jennings, 263.
                  
                     52 Jennings to John Tipton, 
                                Charlestown
                            , July 26, 1829, in ibid., 271
               
                     object instead of providing for an investigation of all
                    surveyors-general thus creating an added expense for the government53
            
            On a question of appropriating money for a board of visitors for West Point Academy, he said he had
                    no desire to withhold public money from such uses as would really give the public an interest in the
                    character of this institution, but in the past some had been appointed to this duty who could not
                    even demonstrate a proposition in Euclid. The appointment of men ignorant of military tactics made
                    the whole matter a farce.54
            
            During the time Jennings was in Congress, his friends at home conferred one more honor upon him. On
                    October 7, 1823, he was elected Grand Master of the Masonic Lodge. He was not installed until the
                    annual meeting in 1824 when he was reelected for another year. He declined reelection in 1825.55
            
            Jennings who had become addicted to the use of liquor while in public life, was defeated for Congress
                    in 1830 by John Carr. The drinking habit which, although then common and not considered derogatory
                    to a man's character, had affected the health of Jennings to a degree that could not be
                    overlooked. His friends felt that only retirement to private life would save him from an early death
                    and they gave their support to his opponents, there being four other candidates. His habits had
                    become too firmly fixed, however, for him to discontinue them and his last years were saddened by
                    over indulgence in strong drink.
            In April, 1826, his wife died.56 She had suffered from ill health for several
                    Clarissa Barbee who had come from 
                        Kentucky
                     to teach in the seminary at 
                        Charlestown
                    . He spent the last years of his life on his farm near 
                        Charlestown
                    . His home was built of hewn logs, was a story and a half high, and had a long porch at
                    the front. Many visitors and friends came to see him, and always his genial personality made him a
                    very agreeable host. He was called from this retirement to perform one more public service, that of
                    commissioner to treat with the Potawattomi and Miami Indians in 1832. The story is told by a witness
                    that the Indians objected to treating with the other commissioners, Mark Crume and John W. Davis,
                    but turning to Jennings 
                  
                     53 Annals of Congress, 17 Cong., 2 Sess., 641.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 20 Cong., 1 Sess., 1524.
                  
                     55 Daniel McDonald, A History of Freemasonry in
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898). 382.
                  
                     56 Morrison Ann Gilmore Hay, 24.
               
                     the chief said, "Good man, and know how to treat
                        us".57 As in all his relations with men his sense of justice made
                    the Indians trust him.
            He maintained an active interest in public affairs to the end of his life. Concerning the location of
                    a state road proposed by the legislature during the session of 1831-32, he wrote outlining a
                    tentative route which would comport with the best interests of the counties concerned. His desire to
                    see legislation carried on more efficiently in state as well as in national government is well
                    illustrated by his statement made at this time, that "a State that affords not, charts of its o[w]n geograph[y] must legislate 'as through
                    a glass darkly.'"
               58
            
            Although Jennings was brought up under Christian influences and two of his brothers entered the
                    ministry, he seems to have made no church connections in Indiana. However, it seems probable that
                    this was due more to neglect than to any hostility to the church and its teachings. In his letters
                    we find several references to religion which support this supposition. In one he set forth his
                    thoughts relative to the matter: 
                        I have often wished and sometimes determined to become a Christian or at least to try.
                            Perplexities on the onset assail & I have as often forgot my wishes and the past
                            determination. I have often thought that when I shall gain my retirement I shall then be
                            more able at least to fulfill my intentions. But poor human nature, prone to err, and too
                            often forgetful of its duty to God and itself, follows the reflected rainbow to the loss of
                            its substantial good.59
                  
                    
            
            Fourteen years later, upon the death of his sister Ann, he wrote: 
                        I expect she is now happy…. Indeed I have no doubt of it. I deeply condole with
                            you and sincerely agree with you that religion is no chimera, and wish I were a subject of
                            its influence. I still hope to be.60
                  
                    
            
            Financial troubles beset him during these last years and it was only through the efforts of several
                    of his friends that he was allowed to remain on his farm until his death which occurred on July 26,
                    1834. He is buried at 
                        Charlestown
                    .
            Jennings has been judged quite differently by different historians. Jacob P. Dunn, writing in 1905,
                    upholds him as the apostle of freedom, without whom Indiana might have become a slaveholding state.
                    He describes him as "a young 
                  
                     57 Nowland, Prominent Citizens of 1878, 66.
                  
                     58 Jennings to [?] January 4. 1832, in Unedited Letters
                                of Jennings, 273-274.
                  
                     59 Jennings to 
                        Mitchell, Washington
                     , May
                            31, 1818, in ibid., 199.
                  
                     60 Jennings to 
                        Mitchell, Washington
                     .
                            December 28, 1827, in ibid., 264.
               
                     Hercules, stripped for the fray, wielding the mighty bludgeon
                    of 'No slavery in Indiana.'"61 On the other hand, Dr.
                    Logan Esarey estimates him in the following words: 
                        As a politician Jennings possessed remarkable ability…. As a statesman he was of
                            modest worth. He doubtless served to the extent of his capacity but that was not great. In
                            the important questions that arose during his time he took no decisive stand. The new state
                            which he helped to organize shows little evidence of his craftsmanship. His name is
                            connected with no great measure or institution that has come down to us. He forfeited the
                            good will of his neighbors by his intemperance and insolvency.62
                  
                    
            
            Perhaps the truth lies somewhere between these two extremes. Jennings was no doubt sincere in his
                    desire to make Indiana a free state, but the antislavery forces were already in the ascendancy by
                    the time he was in a position to exert much influence. The territorial Legislature of 1810 repealed
                    the slave law that was on the statute boks and from then on the proslavery group fought a losing
                    battle. Jennings saw the opportunity of championing the antislavery, capital-moving, and
                    anti-Harrison forces and by so doing he received his first political offices. His pleasing
                    personality which won him many friends, together with his assiduous care in looking after the
                    interests of those whom he represented were probably the leading factors in keeping him in political
                    office for twenty-one years.
            
               
                  61 Dunn, Indiana, 389.
               
                  62 Esarey, "Biographical Sketch," in Measages and Letters of Jennings, Boon and Hendricks, 28.
            
         
         
         
            The Old "
                        Vincennes
                     Library"
            By JANE KITCKELL
            William Henry Harrison arrived in 
                        Vincennes
                     in January, 1801, to assume his duties as Governor of the vast district then known as
                    Indiana territory. The capital, a town founded about three-quarters of a century earlier, was a
                    place of much interest. There Frances Vigo, Father Gibault, Colonel George Rogers Clark and other
                    men of intelligence and courage had made history. During the Harrison régime, 
                        Vincennes
                     continued to be a center of activity. From this old French village, orders were
                    despatched over a wide area. Here conferences with Indians were held and treaties made. Legislators
                    and judges met here to adopt or frame laws and render decisions. The annals of the period contain
                    such names as William Clark, Henry Vanderburgh, John Griffin, John Gibson, John Badolette, Benjamin
                    Parke, and John Rice Jones.
            The people who lived in the capital of Indiana territory were not without interest in the means of
                    education. The first regular school in what is now Indiana was probably that conducted by Father
                    Rivet in 1793.1 A school system was of very slow growth and little was
                    accomplished in the territorial period. It was far easier to start and maintain libraries which for
                    years provided a road to a degree of education for many persons. A meeting was held at the William
                    Hays Inn of 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 20, 1806, from which came into being a circulating library which survived for
                    seventy-seven years. The present public library of 
                        Vincennes
                    
               2 is an outgrowth of the idea which led to that conference over
                    which Governor Harrison later to be President of the 
                        United States
                    , presided on that July day of 1806.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     University has preserved the book containing the minutes of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company (later known as the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Association) which existed and played its part from 1806 to 1883. The Minutes
                    of the first meeting carry interesting matter:
            
               
                  1 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 181.
               
                  2 There is no direct connection between the 
                            Vincennes
                         Public Library of today and the old 
                            Vincennes
                         Library. The modern institution was initiated in 1888 and formally opened on April
                        18, 1889. The old Library Company was dissolved in 1883 and the cob ledion of books and other
                        property sold to Vincennea University. In a more fundamental sense. however, the 
                            Vincennes
                         Public Library is the heir of the older institution of revered memory, the
                        Vincennea Llbrary.
            
            
            
                    At a meeting of a number of the citizens of 
                            Vincennes
                         and its vicinity at Wm. Hays Inn on the 20th July 1806 who were desirous to promote
                        the formation of a circulating library, Governor Harrison was called to the chair and Benjamin
                        Parke appointed secretary.
                    Dave McKee offered to the consideratiion of the meeting the form of a constitution for a Library
                        company, which being read, upon a motion made and seconded it was
                    Resolved: That an agreement should be entered into by such as would subscribe thereto, to engage
                        each to the other to comply with such rules and regulations as a majority of the said
                        subscribers should finally adopt for the government of the said company—
                    On motion made and seconded it was ordered
                    That John Badollet, John Johnston, Dav. McKee, Dav. McName and John R. Jones be a committee to
                        prepare the form of a constitution for the said company.
                    Ordered
                    That the said committee do make report at the next meeting of the said citizens and then the
                        meeting adjourned to the second day of August next at three o'clock in the
                    afternoon.
                
            The meeting arranged for August 2 was held at the appointed hour. The minutes show the following
                    citizen sub-scribers: "Governor Harrison, J. R. Jones, John Badolett, R. Buntin, Henry
                    Vanderburgh, Dav. McKee, Dav. McName, B. Bedkes, F. Bullitt, H. Hurst, I. V. Hay, A. Badollet, D.
                    Smith, Thomas Jones, P. Jones, Col. Vigo, and B. Parke." These men were present at the
                    second meeting, with Governor Harrison in the chair and Benjamin Parke acting as secretary. The
                    committee appointed at the first meeting to draw up a constitution made a report. The draft
                    presented was considered, amended and adopted. The Library Company was to sell one hundred shares at
                    five dollars each "payable in specie, or in such books" as the President and
                    directors should judge proper for admission and at such values as the President and directors should
                    determine. Each shareholder was to pay annually two dollars on each share held. Yearly meetings of
                    shareholders were provided for, and the officers were to consist of a President, seven Directors and
                    a Librarian. These were all to be chosen annually by the members of the Company. The shareholders
                    were empowered to increase the number of shares from time to time in response to increasing demand.
            The duties of the Librarian were outlined in Article 4 of the Constitution: 
                    
                        It shall be the duty of the Librarian to receive all monies, fines be-longing to the society
                            and pay the same on an order signed by the President and directors or a majority of them. He
                            shall act as secretary to the general meetings and to the President and Directors and shall
                            keep a regular account of his receipts and disbursements and shall exhibit the same annually
                            to the general meeting and also whenever thereto required by the President and directors. He
                            shall take good care of all books and maps belonging to the company and shall keep a book
                            properly ruled in which shall be noted the times of delivery of books to those share holders
                            or their agents and their return, noting also all delinquences as to loss or damage of books
                            and as to the time of returning them. He shall also receive, keep and arrange in
                            systematical order as well all such specimens of ores, minerals, fossils and other natural
                            curosities as shall be delivered him as also all such essays and communications as may tend
                            to throw light on the natural and civic history of the western country and of the aborigines
                            thereof.
                    
            
            The Library was to be open on each Wednesday and Saturday from 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. "for
                    the delivery and return of books to and from subscribers." Each share was to entitle a
                    subscriber to one book at a time. It was possible for the same person to own more than one share.
                    The minutes of August 2, 1806, contain the names of eighty-seven shareholders, six of whom owned two
                    shares each, while the remaining eighty-one owned a single share each. Smaller volumes could be held
                    for one week, and larger ones for two weeks. No shareholder was permitted to lend any book drawn
                    from the library "to be read out of his own house". For any book "so lent
                    out" a fine of twenty-five cents was to be collected.
            John Badollete was chosen President of the Company, and Benjamin Park Librarian. The President and
                    Directors were requested to seek an "act of Incorporation" from the Legislature of
                    the territory. At a meeting of the President and Directors on August 9, 1806, it was arranged that
                    share-holders should be notified that books in payment for shares would be received on August 23.
                    Presumably many of the subscribers paid not in coin but in something even rarer and more
                    acceptable—printed volumes.
            By March 24, 1809, there were two hundred forty-five volumes in the Library. The minutes of this date
                    show but forty-six shares owned by forty shareholders. Evidently many who started in the venture had
                    grown faint-hearted and fallen by the wayside. At this meeting, the Librarian was asked  to destroy "Calipoedia" (one volume) and
                    "Peggy Black" and "Wilmot Bond" (in five volumes), which were in
                    the opinion of the committee of "immoral tendency" and "unfit to be found
                    in the possession of an institution the object of which is to diffuse useful knowledge and correct
                    moral principles …."
            The Librarian of 1809 met with some of the same problems and criticism as librarians of today
                    experience. The years have brought a different point of view—the realization that a
                    public library is not a moral institution. People must be met as they really are with no thought of
                    reforming them. Library workers endeavor to cultivate the attributes of a liberal humanity.
            The location of the books in the earliest period—the place from which they were delivered
                    and to which they were returned on Wednesdays and Saturdays—is unknown. It is held that
                    the Library was housed in the Harrison Mansion in the period following the departure of Governor
                    Harrison to take command of troops in the War of 1812.3 His eldest son, John
                    Cleves Symmes Harrison, occupied the home for a time. There is some evidence that the Library was
                    located in a rear room of the building which served as Courthouse and Jail at one time.4 This building stood where the J. P. L. Weems home now stands at the corner of
                    Fourth and Buntin Streets.
            In the minutes of May 26, 1812, there is a statement to the effect that a committee was named by the
                    directors to in-quire as to the possibility of housing the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library in the University building. Evidently, since this was before the books were
                    kept in the Harrison Mansion, the efforts of the committee did not bear fruit.
            After the books were removed from the Harrison House, whenever that may have been, they were kept in
                    rented quarters for many years. In the minutes of a meeting of February, 1830, an interesting
                    resolution occurs: "Resolved that the 
                  
                     3 Henry G. Cauthorn, History of the City of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1902), p. 27. Cauthorn says: "The 
                                Vincennes
                             Library was kept in the mansion during the time it was occupied by Symmes
                            Harrison, and it continued to be the resort of the elite and cultured of the
                            place." Governor Harrison left 
                                Vincennes
                             to assume command of troops in the war with 
                                England
                             in the early summer of 1812. Soon fit d Mrs. Harrison and the younger members
                            of the family were transfered to 
                                Cincinnati
                            . The Harrison House was given to John Cleves Symmes Harrison, the eldest son of
                            General Harrison, before the close of the year 1812, who occupied it for a period.
                  
                     4 See an article in the 
                                Vincennes
                             Sun of May 31, 1919, by Margaret Holland, quoting from a Mr. George Sparrow.
                            The article appeared at the time of the dedication of the building now occupied by the 
                                Vincennes
                             Public Library.
               
                     Libraian be authorized to pay the rent of the room wherein the
                    library is kept out of Library funds provided the same does not exceed One dollar per
                    month." In February, 1837, the Directors tried again to find a place for the Library in the
                    "Academy building." In October, 1839, the Catholic College was
                    "authorized to take the cases containing the Books in the 
                        Vincennes
                     University at such valuation of the same as may be agreed on." It would seem
                    from this motion that the Library had been placed in the University for a short time. New cases were
                    now purchased and the library was installed in a room belonging to a Mr. Crosby which was rented for
                    "twelve dollars per annum". The cost for the shelving plus the charge for the
                    moving of books and furniture was $28.07. Two years later, the stockholders'
                    annual meeting was held at the library room in the Town Hall, which means that another shift had
                    been made. In 1856, the Library was still in the Town Hall, since the minutes show that
                    "stockholders assembled in the City Council Room over the Library."
            A list of books furnished by the minutes of 1813, includes the following titles:
                    "Leland's Philip of Macedon; Robertson's History of America (2 vols.); Maimbourgh's History of America;
                        Dictionary of Arts and Sciences (5 vols.); Reid's Essays (3
                    vols.); Atwood on Rectilinear Motion; Guthrie's Grammar
                    (2 vols.); Blair's Lectures (2 vols.); Vattel's Law
                        of Nations; Morse's Geography (2 vols.); Witherspoon's
                        Works (2 vols.); Miller's Retrospect (2 vols.);
                    Pinkerton's Geography (2 vols, with maps); Robertson's Charles V (3 vols.); Jefferson's Notes on 
                            Virginia
                        
                (with appendix); Ossian's Poems; Andrews'
                        Views; Goldsmith's Animated Nature (4 vols.);
                    Varlow's Husbandry (2 vols.); Ladies Companion; Eloise;
                        Mirabeau's Gallery of Portraits (2 vols.); Lectures on Female
                        Education; Mysteries of Udolpho; Gil Blas; Beggar Girl; Carver's Travels; Introduction to the History of 
                            Denmark
                        
                (in French); Principles of Literature (in French).5
            
            Various means were resorted to in order to obtain books or funds with which to buy them. Book drives
                    and book showers are today found useful in adding volumes to libraries 
                  
                     5 This must have been a selected or partial list, since the total
                            number of volumes mentioned is 48, whereas, four years earlier there were 245 books in the
                            collection.
               
                     to supplement what can be purchased with money income. In 1810,
                    the Legislature of Indiana territory authorized the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library to raise some funds through a lottery. Numbered tickets were prepared and sold,
                    a part of the returns being used for prizes to those drawing the lucky numbers.
            The 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company was quite modern in regard to the transaction of business. In 1832,
                    "duplicate copies" of books and "all such works as it may be expedient by
                    the decay of the binding to sell" were disposed of at an auction, with a credit of one
                    year. The sale resulted in clearing the shelves of twenty-five volumes. The aggregate selling price
                    of the several works auctioned off was $16.15. A set of Hume's English History
                    (5 vols.) brought $5.08. It is to be hoped that it was possible to collect the entire
                    amount of the sale at the end of the year. Transportation charges constituted no small part of the
                    cost of books purchased by any western library before the time of railway connections with the East.
                    Books, like other commodities that could stand the cost of shipment over the mountains, were carried
                    westward by overload freight companies. Most of the books that were bought for the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library were ordered from 
                        Philadelphia
                    . A record of May 11, 1811, indicated that the freight charge on seventy-nine pounds of
                    books was $7.90, or ten cents per pound.
            On April 10, 1828, the Librarian was ordered to purchase of Moses Tabbs twenty-nine volumes of the
                        Edinburg Review at a cost of $58.00. This was the first move in the
                    direction of supplying the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library with files of periodicals for reference purposes.
            A portrait of Colonel Francis Vigo, painted by Augustine von Smith, was purchased in 1839. For this,
                    the Directors of the Library Company paid the artist $25.00. In addition he was presented
                    with one share of stock and freed from the obligation to pay the annual dues of $2.00.
                    The said portrait was "handsomely framed" and hung on the wall of the library
                    room. This seems to have been the initial step in committing the Library to the useful purpose of
                    preserving pictures.
            No minutes of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company have been found for the decade extending from 1861 to 1871. Possibly
                    the gap in the records was occasioned by activities and interests  of the Civil War. Some time within the period of missing records, the books were placed in a room
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     University, as a minute of February 6, 1871, proves: "On motion of Nathaniel
                    Usher it was ordered that the librarian permit the officers and teachers of 
                        Vincennes
                     University the free use of any books in the library in consideration of the use of the
                    library room."
            The last meeting of the shareholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company, or 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Association, of which there is a record, was held on February 5, 1883, at the
                    library room in the University building. Officers were elected as at every annual meeting, but, at
                    the same time, a committee was named to investigate the possibility of selling the ac-cumulated
                    books and furniture. A special meeting was arranged for the first Monday in April following, but
                    there are no minutes of such a meeting in the record book of the Association.6
                    Records of 
                        Vincennes
                     University show that the books and cases of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library were purchased by that institution on May 22, 1883, for the sum of
                    $190.00. As a condition of the transfer of the Library, founded more than three-quarters
                    of a century earlier, the shareholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Association were to retain the privilege of borrowing the books. This brought
                    to an end the career and work of the Library Company organized in the frontier capital of Indiana
                    territory in 1806. Softly we draw the curtain and silently we bow our heads in reverence as we
                    contemplate the founders of the old 
                        Vincennes
                     Library. It would be difficult to estimate the influence of this Association. The great
                    movement to which its members gave origin and direction goes on in an ever wideing current.
            
               
                  6 This pre-arranged meeting was very probably held, since the Library was
                        sold to 
                            Vincennes
                         University in May. It is not likely that such an action would have been taken
                        unless sanctioned by the Association in such a meeting as that scheduled for the first Monday in
                        April.
            
         
         
         
            Two Pioneer Homes of 
                        Switzerland County
                    
            
            By JULIA LECLERC KNOX
            The Dufour family of five brothers and three sisters who came from 
                  Vevay, Switzerland
               , and founded 
                        Vevay
                    , Switzer-land County, Indiana, in the early nineteenth century, left their impress in
                    many ways on the southern part of the State. One way is in the strong old mansion houses they left
                    behind them which seem to prove they builded better than they knew.
            One of these, at least one hundred eight years old, is the John David Dufour house, about three miles
                    above 
                        Vevay
                    .1 It is situated on a steep knoll, off the Markland Road and one
                    wonders how it is, or ever was or will be, possible to get down the incline in icy weather and yet
                    it is, and always has been, done. To a native of 
                        Switzerland
                    , no doubt, the descent or ascent was regarded as a matter of course.
            The old building is peculiar in being just one room wide and four rooms and a hall long. There are
                    great, wide verandas across both the front and back. The view from the front is magnificent,
                    commanding a wide stretch of 
                        Kentucky
                     hills, and, when the trees are leafless, the sweep of the 
                        Ohio River
                    . One enters a hall about seven and one-half feet wide which runs the width of the house
                    and opens on the rear porch. The hills form a steep and lovely background, rising abruptly almost
                    from the rear veranda itself. Those old Switzers must have been reminded of their native Alps in
                    such an environment and have felt quite at home.
            On the left of the hall is a great, light, airy living room of twenty-two feet with a great
                    wide-mouthed fireplace that contains a "built in" stove of the olden time, called
                    a 
                        Franklin
                    . Opening off from this apartment is a bedroom of eighteen feet with great presses
                    flanking the mantel piece.
            On the right of the hall is a dining room twenty feet in length, many-windowed and cheerful with the
                    dazzling outlook on River and hills that all the rooms have. A large and attractive bedroom of
                    eighteen feet, connects with this, presenting a frontage for the entire house of
                    eíghty-five and one-half feet. A kitchen, large according to modern ideas but dwarfed by
                    the other big rooms, has been added in recent years, just off the dining room.
            
               
                  1 There is a picture of this old home in The Swiss Settlement
                            of 
                                Switzerland County
                            , Indiana Historical Collections, XIII (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1925), by Perrett Dufour, p. 100.
            
            
            All the wood work is of solid walnut, even the floors, and there is a lovely walnut wainscoting
                    anciently called chair-boarding, to protect the walls from tilted chairs. The walnut doors are
                    paneled in three divisions with wooden pegs instead of nails, and have the
                    lift-up-the-latch-and-walk-in fastenings, like those of Red Riding Hood's grandmother. The
                    floors have great, wide planks.
            A walnut stairway, by easy treads, leads to a square landing and then by a square turn, to the upper
                    hall of the same dimensions as the lower. The ceilings are low so the stair seems very short. On the
                    right is an immense room with only two small windows, high in the wall. One would have to stand on
                    chair or step ladder to see out. On the other side of the hall are two attic rooms, dark as
                    dungeons, an ideal place for the family ghosts to assemble.
            Every one of the down-stairs rooms had the wide-mouthed fire places of early times with stone
                    hearths, but all save one have been boarded up and papered over. Still to the discerning eye, the
                    original dimensions are easily traceable. The great built in presses are another characteristic of
                    pioneer architecture.
            An immense cellar extends under the entire house and is entered from the outside by the old
                    fashioned, slanting, double plank-doors. As the house stands high and is reached by many steps, the
                    cellar steps are accordingly few. The basement is divided into several compartments. In the outer
                    one alone, the writer counted at least thirteen oak tree trunks, with the bark on, which form the
                    supports of the upper floor.
            This interesting old building has been continuously in the possession of the John David Dufour branch
                    of the family since that sturdy old pioneer erected it, until within the last few years when it has
                    become the property, along with the farm on which it is situated, of Mr. and Mrs. Clair Andrews,
                    descendants of one of the best Scotch pioneer families.
            Another of the many interesting old houses of 
                        Switzerland County
                     is the one built by David Blunk, some eighty years ago, out on the Doe Run Road. It is
                    now known as the John Todd Place as it has been the property of the Todds for more than sixty-five
                    years.
            The building stands at a crossroads on slightly rising ground. 
                    It is a two story frame with two entrances, each having a small colonial veranda, like the Harrison
                    Home at 
                        Vincennes
                    . There are some ten rooms, exclusive of the separate kitchen, a small two-room frame
                    building into which one steps from the great triangular back porch. In one of the kitchen rooms,
                    there is a great wide-mouthed fireplace with the crane which was used for cooking in the early
                    times. Probably the kitchen was once just one big room.
            The distinctive feature of the house is the immense hall, which runs the entire length of the
                    building, of which there is duplicate up-stairs. The paper on the walls looks as if put there but
                    yesterday. As a matter of fact, however, it was hung there at least sixty-five years ago. The same
                    oilcloth covering that was on the upper hall floor when the Todds first bought the house, is still
                    there, in a remarkable state of preservation.
            On the left of the hall as one enters is the parlor, rather smaller than one expects after examining
                    the hallway. The article of furniture which immediately catches the eye is a large ancient mirror in
                    a square gilt frame and an old fashioned couch-sofa that belonged to the Blunk family. Back of this
                    room, though having no connection with it, is an oblong bed-room. A feature of the house is that
                    these rooms all open off the hall and with one or two exceptions, have no other communication with
                    each other. One can never forget that the hall is the central artery of the building. On the right
                    is a cheerful, many-windowed living-room. Back of it is a square dining-room and trailing out the
                    length of the place, another room off of it which is now used as a kitchen. The dining-room has a
                    windowed door, giving an entrance on the side. This is the longer side of the house.
            A broad stairway on the left side of the hall, well back from the parlor door, leads to the upper
                    hallway. Over the parlor and adjoining the bedroom is one great room, designated as the ballroom,
                    now sunk to the level of a store room. Old clocks, a spinning wheel and other intriguing relics of a
                    past time are massed together here. Running across the entire back of the upper story is a wide
                    veranda, now enclosed. Imagination can picture the beaux and hoop-skirted belles of the early
                    sixties coming out from the ball room between dances to get a breath of moonlighted air, and
                    perchance a flirtation. Across the hall is the guest-room containing a wonderful old  four-poster bed and some horse-hair chairs with rose patterned backs.
                    This, as mentioned, being the longer side of the house, stretches out in some three bedrooms, the
                    last directly connected by an enclosed back stairway with the lower floor. The doors are wide,
                    paneled and grained in very substantial pattern. This home is an example of the well-preserved
                    dwelling-houses of the more pretentious type built in the pre-Civil War period.2
            
            
               
                  2 This old home is of special interest to the writer as it was here that
                        her father married his first wife, youngest daughter of David Blunk, builder and original owner.
                        The writer wishes here to express her appreciation to Mr. and Mrs. John Todd for their great
                        courtesy in showing her over the place, though her visit occurred at an inopportune time.
            
         
         
         
            The Political Career of Benjamin F. Shively
            By H. S. K. BARTHOLOMEW
            With but few exceptions the men who have represented Indiana in the 
                        United States
                     senate have been men of high character, and the state is justly proud of most of those
                    who have been elevated to membership in the highest law-making body in the land. Among the
                    individuals who have been so honored are: William Hendricks, Oliver H. Smith, James Whitcomb Henry
                    S. Lane, Thomas A. Hendricks, Daniel D. Pratt, Joseph E. McDonald, Daniel W. Voorhees, Benjamin
                    Harrison, David Turpie and Albert J. Beveridge. Worthy of a place beside these honored names is that
                    of Benjamin F. Shively who was twice elected but whose death occured when he had served but little
                    more than a year of his second term. Among his colleagues were such Senators as Augustus O. Bacon,
                    Ollie James, John Sharp Williams, Robert L. Taylor, Knute Nelson, Elihu Root, William S. Kenyon,
                    Theodore E. Burton and John Warwick Daniel, but Shively was the peer of them all.
            Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     Shively was born on March 20, 1857, about a mile west of the little village of Osceola
                    in 
                        St. Joseph County
                     and near the bank of the lordly St. Joseph River. His father was
                    Joel Shively, a minister of what was then called the Dunkard or Dunker church, but whose official
                    name is now the Church of the Brethren. His mother, before her marriage, was Elizabeth Penrod. The
                    Rev. Shively traveled over 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart
                     counties preaching to the people of his faith wherever he was called. He was one of the
                    best known among the Dunkard preachers of his day and generation. Both he and Mrs. Shively were held
                    in high esteem in the community in which the greater part of their lives was spent. There were eight
                    children in the Shively family, three of whom died at an early age. Those who grew up were Benjamin
                    F., Aaron,' Christian, Rebecca and Catherine. Of these, Christian is the only one now
                    living. Aaron died in the latter part of 1931. Neither of these two brothers ever married. Rebecca
                    who became Mrs. David S. Kindig died in 1918. She and the writer attended the old 
                        Elkhart county
                     Normal school at the same time.
            Benjamin spent the early years of his life in the same way as did most country boys of that day,
                    working on the farm  through the summer and attending the
                    district school in the winter. This he continued to do until he was sixteen years old, when he began
                    teaching. He taught for two terms at the Willow Creek school, two terms at the Pleasant Valley
                    school and a year at Osceola. Southwest of Osceola was the Rogers School, which was known as the
                    roughest school in that section of the country. The older boys prided themselves on their prowess in
                    being able to run out the teacher winter after winter. When Mr. Shively was teaching at Osceola, the
                    boys at the Rogers School again drove their teacher out. Then the township trustee called on Mr.
                    Shively and asked him to come over after his school closed and finish the term. He did so and had no
                    trouble.
            After he became of age, Mr. Shively spent several summers in the harvest fields of 
                        Minnesota
                    . When harvesting was over he remained to go with a threshing machine. His brother said
                    that Benjamin enjoyed "feeding" the machine, which, as all who ever observed
                    "feeders" know, was hard work. In the meantime, he learned the
                    plasterer's trade and did some work at stone masonry. He worked at those trades in 
                        Mishawaka
                     and also in Osceola, where he helped to build the schoolhouse which preceded the
                    present one in that village. In addition to all this he managed to attend an eight weeks'
                    term of the Northern Indiana Normal School at 
                        Valparaiso
                    . Outside of what he gained there and in the country schools, he was self taught until
                    he entered a school of law.
            In Benjamin's boyhood days, the Rev. Joel Shively belonged to the Republican party and the
                    son naturally followed in his footsteps. After the panic of 1873, both father and son began to study
                    the money question and both came to the conclusion that there was something wrong with the
                    country's financial system. By 1876 both were ready to join the newly formed Greenback
                    party. In 1880 Benjamin began the publication of a Greenback paper in 
                        South Bend
                    , the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Era. This he continued for several years. In 1882 he was tendered the Greenback
                    party's nomination for Congress in the thirteenth Congressional district. He accepted the
                    nomination and stumped the district, a part of the time walking from one speaking place to another
                    because he could not afford to pay carfare. The late Appellate Judge, E.A. Dausman, who was then a
                    Democrat and a member of the county central committee,  heard
                    Shively speak in Nappanee. In a letter to the writer of this sketch, who was then attending school
                    in 
                        Valparaiso
                    , he told of Shively's gift of oratory and of the logical, forceful address
                    which he had delivered. In closing his letter, Mr. Dausman said: "I wish he were a
                    Democrat".
            In 1884 Mr. Shively again received the Greenback nomination for Congress. For several years, he had
                    been making a thorough study of the tariff question and found that on that question he was in
                    harmony with the Democratic party. In the latter part of the campaign, a somewhat peculiar situation
                    arose. Major William Calkins, the congressman from the thirteenth district, having received the
                    Republican nomination for governor, several months later resigned his seat in Congress. This left a
                    vacancy to be filled for a part of a term. Both political parties had held their congressional
                    conventions some time before. The Democrats had nominated George Ford, a prominent lawyer of 
                        South Bend
                    , while the Republicans had chosen Henry G. Thayer of 
                        Plymouth
                    , also an able and worthy man. Both parties were anxious to effect a coalition with the
                    Greenbackers on congressional candidates and each party made overtures to Mr. Shively. At that time
                    the prospects for succeess were more favorable for the Republicans than for the Democrats. No
                    Democrat had been elected in that district for twenty years. Had Mr. Shively been willing to
                    Sibordinate his political convictions to expediency, he would have accepted the Republican
                    nomination, but he was not that kind of a man. His studies of governmental questions had carried him
                    away from the party with which he had been identified in his early years and he was now in accord
                    with the Democratic party on all of the major issues. So, as any honest man would have done, he
                    turned his back on the offer which held forth the greater promise of success and accepted the one
                    which offered the lesser. Both the Democrats and the Greenbackers supported Mr. Ford for the long
                    term and Mr. Shively for the short term and both were elected.
            Mr. Shively entered Congress at the opening of the short session in the following December and served
                    until the fourth of March, 1886. He was the youngest member of that Congress, but by his courteous
                    demeanor and his manly bearing he won the respect of all those members with whom he came in contact.
                    Through the influence of his friend and fellow member
            
            George L. Yaple of 
                        Michigan
                    , he was given an opportunity to make a speech, which was listened to with close
                    attention and made a favorable impression even upon those members who had been serving for years.1
            
            At the close of his brief term of service in Congress, he entered the Law School of the University of 
                        Michigan
                     at 
                        Ann Arbor
                    . He had been devoting as much time as he could spare to the study of law while he was
                    editing his paper in 
                        South Bend
                    , so that in a year from the time he entered the law school he was able to graduate. He
                    at once entered upon the practice of the profession in 
                        South Bend
                    , which thereafter was his permanent home.
            While he was in the law school, an incident occurred which showed his native modesty, a trait which
                    characterized him throughout his life. A letter came addressed to Hon. B. F. Shively, M. C. The head
                    of the law department brought the letter to his class and asked Mr. Shively if he had ever served in
                    Congress. Mr. Shively replied that he had. The professor told him that he was the first
                    ex-congressman who had ever attended that law school.
            Mr. Shively's short service in the national House had made such a favorable impression that
                    when the time came for the off-year congressional campaign, that of 1886, the Democrats of the
                    thirteenth district began to consider him favorably as a candidate. Congressman Ford had already let
                    it be known that he intended to retire at the end of a single term. The matter of a candidacy having
                    been suggested to him by some of the Democratic leaders in the district, after giving it due
                    consideration, Mr. Shively decided to let his name go before the convention, which was held at
                            
                  Warsaw. Elkhart
                        county
                had two candidates in the convention, Lewellyn Wanner, a lawyer, and
                    Laporte Heefner, a banker. Mr. Shively was an easy winner and at once entered upon an active
                    campaign. His splendid oratorical ability and his skillful handling of the issues which divided the
                    parties made a favorable impression wherever he spoke. In fact he was soon conceded to be one of the
                    best campaigners who had ever made his appearance in 
                  
                     1 The young member from Indiana, elected to serve only through the
                            short session of 1884-1886, made two speeches during the session, one dealing with the
                            problem of regulating inter-state commerce, the other with the currency Question. It is a
                            remarkable fact that the first of these speeches was made on Thursday, December 4, 1884, the
                            fourth day of the session. Certainly Mr. Shivelr's maiden speech was not held back
                            very long. For these two speeches, which read as if made years later, see Cong.
                                Record, 48 Cong., 2 Sew, 64-66 (Dec. 4, 1884) and 732-738 (Jan. 16, 1885).
               
                     the district.
            Until two years before that time, the Republicans had held the district uninterruptedly since 1864,
                    and they were now determined to make the most strenuous efforts to wrest it from the Democrats. They
                    nominated Gen. 
                        Jasper
                     Packard, the strongest man they had in the district, and withal a superb orator. A
                    series of joint debates between the two candidates was arranged. The discussions were to be held in
                    all of the county seats in the district—
                  South
                        Bend, La Porte, Goshen, Warsaw, Plymouth, Rochester
                and 
                        Knox
                    . The debates attracted immense audiences of enthusiastic partisans, usually about
                    equally divided between the two parties. The discussions were free from personalities and the
                    candidates treated each other with becoming courtesy on all occasions. Each one put forth his best
                    efforts in behalf of the cause which he had espoused and the great numbers who heard them enjoyed a
                    splendid intellectual treat. Before the debates were concluded it was quite generally conceded that
                    the young, intellectual giant from 
                        South Bend
                     was getting the better of the seasoned campaigner who had been through many political
                    battles. They traveled together and after the speeches and while waiting for trains, surrounded by
                    their followers, they told stories and cracked jokes, thus passing the time in a way that was
                    enjoyable to all. Both candidates canvassed the district thoroughly having speaking' dates
                    up to the night before the election. When the votes were counted, Shively was found to be elected by
                    majority of about 1,000, although the Republicans had carried the district for their state ticket
                    and had elected their county officers in most of the counties in the district.2
            
            When the time came for the campaign of 1888, no candidate offered himself for the Democratic
                    nomination in opposition to Shively. The Democratic convention was held in 
                        Goshen
                     and he was nominated by acclamation. That year the Republicans adopted a different line
                    of strategy from that of two years before and played for the Catholic vote by nominating Col.
                    William Hopes, a professor in the Law Department of Notre Dame University, a man of high character
                    and exceptional ability.
            
               
                  2 In 1886, the vote in the thirteenth congressional district stood:
                        Packard, 18 087: Shively, 19,106. Two years earlier, Ford (Dem.-Greenback candidate) received
                        20,971 votes and Thayer (Rep.), 18,782. At this time Shively, the candidate for the short term,
                        backed by Democrats and Greenbackers, received 20,964 to 18,786 for his opponent
                    Reynolds.
            
            
            From the time of his entrancer into politics, Mr. Shively favored a full, free and frank discussion
                    of all public questions and particularly of the issues which divided the parties in any canvass. He
                    also believed that the fair way to put the issues before the voters was to have the opposing
                    candidates appear together as often as convenient, so that each one could present his case to people
                    of all parties. He and Gen. Packard had done this in 1886, and believing in this method of
                    campaigning, he addressed a letter to Col. Hoynes soon after the latter was nominated in which he
                    said: 
                        Believing that you agree with me as to the propriety and desirability of a full, free and
                            thorough investigation of the issues involved in the present campaign, I very respectfully
                            invite you to engage with me in a series of joint discussions before the voters of the
                            thirteenth congressional district, the number, the dates and places of such meetings to be
                            arranged by our respective committees.
                    
            
            Mr. Shively waited two weeks for a reply and not receiving one he gave a copy of the letter to the
                    press. Col. Hoynes came back with a public letter over a half-column in length in which he chided
                    Mr. Shively for not waiting longer before publishing his letter, or, in the words of the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Weekly News, gave Mr. Shively a "curtain lecture" for not so
                    doing. The Colonel indulged in numerous platitudes about alleged protection to American labor,
                    caring for the country's soldiers and various other matters which he claimed demanded the
                    attention of the people. He accepted Mr. Shively's challenge with apparent enthusiasm,
                    saying that he would be only too glad to appear on the same platform before the voters of the
                    district when each one could have ample opportunity to present his cause. When the time came for the
                    two committees to arrange speaking dates and places, the Republican Committee refused to enter into
                    any arrangement of that kind. Just what excuse they made is no longer remembered. The Democrats
                    taunted their opponents throughout the campaign, declaring that they were afraid to have their
                    candidate meet the popular, young Representative, who, in his brief term of service had made a
                    splendid record and whose oratorical ability had proved more than a match for Gen. Packard two years
                    before. Each candidate conducted his campaign alone, each of them making a vigorous canvass and
                    speaking day and night for nearly two months.
            The year 1888 was a disastrous one for the Democrats in Indiana.
            
            From the beginning to the end of the campaign they were at a great disadvantage. Two years before
                    there had been an exceedingly bitter contest in the Legislature over the election of a 
                        United States
                     senator. Benjamin Harrison was nearing the end of his term and was a candidate for
                    reelection. In the Legislature, the strength of the two parties on joint ballot was so nearly the
                    same that each claimed a majority on joint ballot. Each resorted to questionable means to gain the
                    ascendancy. After a protracted struggle, General Harrison was defeated, being succeeded by David
                        Turpie.3 Then the Republicans raised the cry of fraud which they kept up for
                    two years, until the end of the 1888 presidential campaign. If there was fraud, both parties were
                    probably equally guilty, but the charge served its purpose in the campaign, which was the thing
                    desired. Besides this, Republicans had another advantage. General Harrison was nominated for
                    President, and they could appeal to state pride as a strong reason for his support. The result was
                    that Indiana was carried by Republicans for both their national and state tickets. They also elected
                    their local tickets in most of the counties. The thirteenth Congressional district went for Harrison
                    and the State Republican ticket by substantial majorities. The first reports had Congressman Shively
                    defeated, but when the official returns came in, it was found that he had run ahead of his ticket in
                    most of the counties in the district and that he actually had a majority of something over 300.
                    Although this was only a third of his majority of two years before, in view of the general
                    Republican success, it was a great and unusual triumph.4
            
            In 1890 the Democratic congressional convention was held at 
                        South Bend
                    . Mr. Shively was again nominated by acclamation. This time his opponent was Henry D.
                    Wilson, a 
                        Goshen
                     lawyer, who had been a life-long Democrat until the time when he failed to receive an
                    appointment from a Democratic Governor 
                  
                     3 David Turpie was elected 
                                United States
                             Senator over Benjamin Harrison by a nargin of two votes in 1887. Sixteen
                            ballots were required, the first of which was taken on Jan. 19 and the last on Feb. 2 On the
                            first fifteen ballots, four members of the House voted for Jason H. Allen. Three of these
                            Prior Gates, Wesley Glover and Robert L. Mackey were Republicans. The fourth F. J. S.
                            Robinson was a Greenback-Labor man who had been endorsed by Democrats. The situation was
                            such that by voting for Turpie. Robinson could at any time make him 
                                United States
                             Senator. If all four of the independents should shift to Harrison, he would he
                            tied with Turpie. On the sixteenth ballot, Robinson voted for Turpie, giving him a total of
                            76 votes. then Gates. Glover, and Mackey transfered to Harrison, bringing his total to 74.
                            The contest was bitter. The right of Turpie to his seat was contested before the 
                                United States
                             Senate, but he Was sustained.
                  
                     4 In 1888, Shively received 21,561 votes in his district, to 21,206
                            for Col. Homes. The vote for the Prohibitionist candidate was 878.
               
                     nor to a vacant judgeship. He was an affable gentleman and a
                    pleasing speaker, but he was known to be far inferior to his competitor. He made many speeches but
                    the fact that he bore the name of a disappointed office seeker proved a handicap. His speeches
                    entertained but carried little weight. Mr. Shively again made a thorough canvas of the district
                    speaking in every city and every town. His meetings attracted large audiences from people of both
                    political parties. He discussed the issues of the campaign in a straightforward way, giving an
                    account of his stewardship in the popular branch of Congress. That his constituents were well
                    satisfied with his record was in evidence when the election returns came in, for this time he
                    received a majority of 2,701, which was much larger than had ever been given to any candidate of
                    either party in the district up to that time. He continued as before giving the best service
                    possible to the people of his district as well as to the state and nation. Upon the opening of
                    Congress, there was a spirited contest for the speakership. There were three Democratic candidates:
                    Charles F. Crisp, of 
                        Georgia
                    ; Roger Q. Mills, of 
                        Texas
                    ; and William M. Springer, of 
                        Illinois
                    . All were worthy men and any one of them could have filled the office of Speaker very
                    acceptably. Mr. Shively believed that Judge Crisp was better qualified than either of the others and
                    identified himself with the supporters of the 
                        Georgia
                     statesman, who was finally elected.
            Having shown himself to be one of the best informed members of the house on economic questions, Mr.
                    Shively was given a place on the Ways and Means Committee, of which William L. Wilson of West 
                        Virginia
                     was chairman. He helped to frame the Wilson tariff bill. This measure was far different
                    from that which finally emerged from the Senate, and which, in the main, the House was compelled to
                    accept. The bill, known ever since as the Wilson-Gorman Act, was permitted to become a law without
                    the signature of President Cleveland. The original bill was a revenue measure and was far more
                    equitable than that which replaced it. Besides serving on the Ways and Means Committee, Shively was
                    a member of several other committees and was one of the busiest men in the fiftieth Congress.
            Although his influence was steadily rising, he decided that he ought at this time to return to the
                    practice of law to accumulate  a little property for himself
                    which he could not do should he continue indefinitely in public life. Early in 1892 he wrote a
                    letter to the district chairman saying that he would not be a candidate for re-election. He received
                    many letters from his constituents begging him to reconsider his declination, but he declared that
                    his decision had been made after careful consideration and that it must be accepted as final. There
                    was no question as to his re-election, had he become a candidate for that was a Democratic year and
                    his Democratic successor on the ticket, although a much less popular man than he, was elected by a
                    substantial majority,5
            
            While he was serving his second full term in congress, Mr. Shively was united in marriage with Miss
                    Laura Jenks, daughter of Hon. George A. Jenks, the Solicitor General in the Department of Justice at 
                        Washington
                    . Three children were born to them: George J., John J. and Mary M. The two sons served
                    in the A.E.F. in 
                        France
                    , the older son receiving the Croix de Guerre for exceptional bravery.
                    This son, George J. Shively, is the author of several books. The first of these, The
                        Initiation, is a story of his college life which also includes some of his experiences in
                    the world war. John J. Shively, the second son, is an electrical engineer who lives in
                            
                  Brookville, Pennsylvania
               . Mary M. Shively, the only daughter, is engaged in the
                    real estate business in 
                        New York City
                    .
            Although he held no office after 1893 for sixteen years, Mr. Shively's services were in
                    demand in every campaign and he never failed to respond at the call of his party. Each campaign year
                    he was on the stump for at least six weeks and his meetings were always attended by as large crowds
                    as when he was serving in Congress. In 1896 in response to demands from the bi-metallist wing of his
                    party, he became a candidate for the nomination for governor. There was a bitter contest over the
                    platform between the bi-metallists and the gold standard advocates in the convention but the
                    bi-metallists won by a large majority. After that was decided, Mr. Shively was easily nominated. He
                    made one of his characteristically vigorous campaigns, speaking in every part of the state. In this
                    campaign he was at a decided disadvantage. His opponent, James A. Mount, was a prominent 
                        Montgomery county
                     farmer 
                  
                     5 In the thirteenth district in 1892, C. G. Conn (Democrat) received
                            21,627 votes to 19,687 for James S. Dodge (Republican). Both candidates were citizens of 
                                Elkhart
                            . The Prohibition party candidate polled 872 votes, while 710 were cast for the
                            Populist candidate.
               
                     and one of the most popular farmers' institute
                    speakers in Indiana. He had been engaged in that work from the time that it started and had spoken
                    at institutes in every county in the state and in many counties several times. He was a very
                    estimable man, with a pleasing personality, a man who made friends wherever he went. The writer, who
                    was associated with him occasionally in farmers' institute work, found him a very agreeable
                    co-worker and always had a high regard for him. Mr. Mount had been anxious for years to win the
                    governship and lost no opportunity to advance his cause when he was out on his institute tours. The
                    close personal friendships which he made were not confined to members of his own political party.
                    When he came to make his campaign for governor these friendships were a great asset to him. The
                    writer would probably have voted for him had it not been for his close personal friendship for
                    Shively. That and the knowledge of Shively's eminent fitness for the office precluded any
                    such thing. The two candidates did not meet in joint debate and it was well for Mount that they did
                    not. While he was a pleasing speaker, he would have been no match for Shively, either intellectually
                    or as an orator. After one of the hardest fought campaigns since the civil war, Mr. Shively met the
                    first defeat of his life.6 Although beaten, he was not in the least cast down
                    and those who met him on the day after the election would not have known from his demeanor that he
                    had not been elected. He again gave his attention to his law practice, as he had done since his
                    retirement from congress. His only diversion besides an occasional speaking date was his study of
                    great governmental problems of which he never ceased to be fond.
            He could have had the gubernatorial nomination again in 1900, had he consented to be a candidate, but
                    long before the convention he let it be known that he did not want to make another race. In the same
                    year, he could have had the nomination for vice-president at the 
                        Kansas City
                     convention, but that he also declined. He threw himself into the campaign with his
                    wonted vigor, however, and made many speeches. In January, 1903, the Democratic caucus in the
                    Legislature gave him the nomination for 
                        United States
                     senator and he received the complimentary vote of his party for that office. All
                    through the lean years of the Democratic party, he was one of 
                  
                     6 The vote for Governor in 1896: James A. Mount, 321,812; Benj. F.
                            Shively, 290,076.
               
                     its pillars, and in both presidential and off-year campaigns
                    gave it his best service.
            In 1904 an effort was made to nominate him for Congress but he would not listen to the proposal. In
                    1906 when his party once more demanded that he make the race, he finally yielded. His opponent was
                    Abram L. Brick who had been serving in the National House since 1899. He had carried the thirteenth
                    district two years before by 7,000 majority. Mr. Shively made one of his old time aggressive
                    campaigns and, while he failed of election, he cut down the majority to about two hundred.7
            
            When the tide began to turn in 1908 and the Democrats carried the Legislature, Shively's
                    friends again began to talk about him for 
                        United States
                     senator.8 Other formidable candidates were put forward, including:
                    John W. Kern of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who had twice made the race for governor; Edward G. Hoffman of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , for many years Democratic national committeeman from Indiana, as well as secretary of
                    the national committee, and John E. Lamb of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , a prominent lawyer and former member of Congress.
            As the time for the opening of the legislative session drew near, the Democrats of Northern Indiana
                    became active in Mr. Shively's behalf. The people of his home city, regardless of party,
                    became enthusiastic in his support. The 
                        South Bend
                     Times edited by John B. Stoll, rendered valiant service to his cause. In editorials
                    Stoll set forth the reasons why Mr. Shively was not only the most available of the candidates who
                    had been proposed for the office but the best qualified among them all to render the kind of service
                    that was needed in the Senate at that particular time. One of these editorials of 1908 so well
                    describes the situation and Mr. Shively's fitness for the place that it is here reprinted
                    in full: 
                        WHY BENJAMIN F. SHIVELY?
                        In the next 
                                United States
                             senate there will be but three Democrats 
                        
                           7 Thirteenth district election of 1906: A. L. Brick, 23,360:
                                    Benj. F. Shively, 23,168. In 1904, Brick had polled 29,361 votes to 22,454 for F. E.
                                    Hering.
                        
                           8 The public learns a great deal about the culpability of
                                    political leaders and suspects much more. Not often enough do authenticated facts
                                    proving the innate honesty of public men come out. A nephew of Mr. Shivley of
                                    sterling worth, B. F. Kindig, furnishes the following story in regard to that
                                    leader: A wealthy manufacturer of northern Indiana desired to make the race for
                                    Governor on the Democratic ticket in 1908. Knowing the influence of Mr. Shivley,
                                    this affluent gentleman sent an emissary to him with $10,000. To receive
                                    this tidy sum, it was only necessary for Mr. Shivley to agree to go out and line-up
                                    delegates to the state Democratic convention who would support the aspiring
                                    manufacturer. The money was scorned and the emissary returned to the man who had
                                    sent him forth to report that Mr. Shivley had been thoroughly alienated by the
                                    assumption that his influence could be purchased.
                     
                             from the North. Senator Teller will probably be
                            re-elected from 
                                Colorado
                             and Senator Newlands from Nevada. The only gain by Democrats will be the new
                            senator of whom, thanks to Governor Hanly, they are assured in Indiana. It is due to the
                            party in the nation; nay, more, it is due to the interests of the country, that the Indiana
                            Democracy furnish the best material it possesses. Senator Teller is an old man; his
                            re-election will be rather a compliment to round out his career than a commission to do
                            effective work for the country. Senator Newlands' connection with large corporate
                            combines is so close and intimate that he can not be relied upon to uphold the interests of
                            the people against the powerful forces arrayed in selfish opposition. Upon the new senator
                            from Indiana, then, will devolve the burden of the championship of Democratic principles on
                            the part of the great northern portion of the country.
                        This championship will be no easy task. The very first session of the next
                            congress—the one promised in the spring—will be the most important
                            held for years. The revision of the tariff in one way or another affects every home in the
                            land. That revision, while in equitable adjustments it may retain a few of the present rates
                            and even possibly increase some minor schedules, must be essentially downward, if it is to
                            relieve the great mass of the people from the heavy burdens imposed, whose benefits have
                            gone to the enriching of a favored few. Not only this, but the corruption, extravagance, and
                            monopolistic tendencies which are debauching both public and private life, if not bred by
                            these inequitable provisions, have at least been nourished by them.
                        Nor are the favored interests going to surrender their privilege without a struggle. It is
                            not in human nature that they should. The hearings already held at 
                                Washington
                             are proof that, like the daughters of the horse leech, tariff-fed monopolists
                            are never satisfied. They are all protesting against reduction, and some have even the
                            effrontery to ask for higher rates. There will be a powerful lobby present at 
                                Washington
                             to combat, by every argument known to the craft, any change that will diminish
                            the exorbitant profits that are now extorted from the consumer.
                        To meet these forces strong men are needed—men of physical and mental vigor,
                            equipped with a knowledge of affairs and familiar with parliamentary practice in addition to
                            being devoted to the public interests. In the protracted debates of the senate physical
                            endurance frequently counts as well as intellectual alertness and mental force and acumen.
                            Dignified bearing and breadth of mind that will command respect for opinions are also
                            essential qualifications. Some such champions are already in the senate, but they should be
                            reinforced strongly in the Democratic senator from Indiana.
                        In all these requisites Hon. Benjamin F. Shively easily qualifies. He is in the prime of
                            life, classing in age with Colonel Bryan, President Roosevelt and President-elect Taft, and
                            like them blessed with physical health and strength and intellectual vigor. He has had
                            congressional experience, and not only acquired familiarity with parliamentary practice,  but proved himself a deep student of public affairs
                            with broad and comprehensive views of statesmanship. During the speakership of Charles F.
                            Crisp he was a member of the ways and means committee, and therein associated with William
                            Jennings Bryan in a careful consideration of the economic questions involved in the
                            imposition of tariff duties. He is a logical thinker and a fluent, forceful speaker. His
                            integrity of purpose is firmly established, and his devotion to the public interests has
                            been conspicuously demonstrated during seven years of continuous congressional service. He
                            is a loyal party man, and while not descending to the tricks of the machine politician, he
                            has steadfastly advocated and advanced Democratic principles and aided in an educative
                            upbuilding of Democratic doctrines. In the tariff struggle that is imminent he would be
                            found a doughty champion—vigilant, aggressive, untiring, resolute and
                            resourceful. He would prove a power to the state and party and a benefit to the entire
                            country. That is why Benjamin F. Shively is needed as the one new Democratic senator from
                            the North.
                    
            
            The contest in the Legislature was a spirited one, all of the candidates having ardent supporters. In
                    the Democratic caucus. Mr. Shively received the solid vote of the members from his own congressional
                    district, as well as nearly all from several of the other northern districts, besides many votes
                    from other sections of the state. He was also the second choice of enough members to give him the
                    nomination when they saw that their own candidates could not win. When the two branches of the
                    Legislature met in joint session, he received the solid vote of his party and was declared duly
                    elected, to the great gratification of his friends throughout the state. He was sworn into office on
                    March 4, 1909, and entered upon what was to be a brilliant but comparatively short senatorial
                    career. As Mr. Stoll had predicted, Senator Shively at once became a leader of the group whose
                    assumed object was to fight the forces of greed and monopoly. He led because his talents qualified
                    him for leadership, because he possessed those qualities which inspired confidence in him on the
                    part of his fellow senators and because he was true to those who are styled the common people. The
                    fact that he was the only Democratic Senator from the Middle West increased his opportunities for
                    leadership.
            During the sixteen years from the time when he left the lower House of Congress, he had been steadily
                    growing and by the time he entered the Senate he was easily recognized as one of the strong men of
                    that body. His first four years of service were during the Taft Administration, when there was  little opportunity for constructive work, as he was of the
                    opposition party. However he showed his breadth of mind by co-operating with the majority on all
                    measures which he considered meritorious. Whenever he opposed the acts of the Administration, he was
                    always able to give valid reasons there-for. When his party came into power under Woodrow Wilson,
                    Senator Shively was one of the men upon whom the new Administration leaned and from whom the
                    President often sought counsel concerning the grave questions which confronted the government. He
                    was the ranking member of the Committee on Foreign Relations, and, during the long illness of its
                    chairman, served as acting chairman. There were many perplexing international problems to be solved
                    at that time and his advice was often asked by both the President and the Secretary of State. He
                    also served on the Finance Committee, the most powerful committee in the Senate and here his long
                    study of important financial questions proved invaluable not only to the committee and the
                    Administration but to the nation as well. He was chairman of the Committee on Pensions, one of the
                    busiest and hardest-worked committees of either house.
            In 1914 he was re-elected to the senate, this time by popular vote. During his first term an
                    amendment to the 
                        United States
                     constitution was adopted, providing for the election of Senators by direct vote of the
                    people. His election to the Senate by the people, he considered the proudest event of his political
                        career.9 He lived to fill out only a part of his second term in the Senate,
                    dying on March 4, 1916, in 
                        Washington
                    .
            Although he was one of the most accomplished orators in the entire Congress one whose speeches always
                    commanded the attention of his colleagues, he seldom spoke after he entered the Senate. He devoted
                    him time to his committee assignments, where all of the important work is done. Had certain other
                    Senators been in a position to do the important work that was done by Shively, it would have been
                    done at the sound of a trumpet, but the modest Senator from Indiana preferred to let the records
                    speak for him, and those records today are a monument to his great ability, his untiring industry
                    and his unswerving devotion to his country's service.
            Just before the end of his first full term in the House of Representatives, Mr. Shively told the
                    writer of a little incident 
                  
                     9 The popular vote for Senator in 1914: Shively (Democrat), 272,249;
                            Miller (Republican), 226,766: Beveridge (Progressive), 108,681.
               
                     in connection with the Post Office of 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana. That city had a postmaster who had served for twelve years and the Democrats
                    felt that, inasmuch as there was a Democratic president, there should be a change of postmasters.
                    Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    , it will be remembered, was a civil service reformer who did not move very rapidly in
                    making changes in appointive offices. He had to be convinced that a change was necessary before he
                    would remove a man from office. The 
                        Goshen
                     Postmaster was entirely capable, was an affable man and no fault could be found with
                    the conduct of the office. But he had one failing which was more common in those days than now: he
                    would occasionally become intoxicated. This was the only charge that could be preferred agoinst him.
                    At the urgent request of his party friends in 
                        Goshen
                    , Congressman Shively took the matter up with the President. For several months, he was
                    unable to secure any results. Finally he determined to end the matter in one way or another. He
                    called on the President and said to him: "Mr. President, I am calling on you for the last
                    time about the 
                        Goshen
                     postoffice affair. I now wash my hands of any further connection with it. If you refuse
                    longer to make a change, I shall tell the people of 
                        Goshen
                     that you prefer a drunken Republican to a sober Democrat." It was only a short
                    time until 
                        Goshen
                     had a Democratic postmaster, for the first time in twenty-seven years.
            All through his congressional career, Mr. Shively gave a great deal of attention to the interests of
                    the old soldiers in the matter of pensions. There were many old soldiers in his congressional
                    district and they all learned in time that he was their friend. In the vicinity of Osceola where he
                    grew up there were several Civil War veterans who were stalwart Republicans and who worked hard
                    against Shively in his first campaign for a seat in Congress. One of them in particular had been
                    exceedingly bitter against him and lost no opportunity to attack him, not only in campaigns but
                    after he was elected. He was very anxious to secure a pension and deserved one, but had been unable
                    to have any attention given to his claims. One day a friend told him to speak to his congressman
                    about it. He replied, "What speak to Shively about it? Why I have been fighting him ever
                    since he ran for Congress the first time and he wouldn't do any thing for me." His
                    friend assured him that this would not make any difference, but he was not convinced.  Finally after the lapse of considerable time and after repeated urging,
                    he mustered up courage to speak to Mr. Shively when the two chanced to meet in 
                        South Bend
                    . Mr. Shively replied: "Certainly I will take up your case as soon as I get
                    back to 
                        Washington
                    ." Upon investigation it was learned that the man deserved a pension and it was
                    not long until the matter was arranged. From that time on that man was one of Shively's
                    staunchest supporters instead of one of his bitterest enemies. This encouraged others in the
                    neighborhood to make applications and in the course of time all of those who deserved pensions were
                    receiving them. They learned that while Mr. Shively was a strong partisan and believed with his
                    whole heart in the principles of his party, he was big enough and broad enough not to let
                    partisanship interfere with his official duties. The greater number of those veterans became
                    supporters of Mr. Shively, not through any persuasion on his part, but because they learned to know
                    him for what he really was and realized that they had misjudged him before.
            No man ever was more loyal to his friends or more steadfast in his friendships than Senator Shively.
                    He never deserted a friend who was under fire when he felt the fire was unjust. Sometimes his
                    loyalty brought upon him undeserved criticism, but that did not swerve him in the least. He knew
                    that the penalty of public life was ingratitude and unfair criticism and no one bore it more
                    complacently than he. When political associates sought his assistance to secure preferment, he gave
                    to each one kindly and considerate attention. if one sought to improve his own chances by repeating
                    rumors that reflected on the other candidates, that man destroyed whatever chance he might have had
                    to secure the place. Dealing with others on a high plane of justice and fairness, he held in supreme
                    contempt those who sought to take unfair advantage. He was exceedingly careful about making a
                    promise; but when he had made it he never failed to fulfil it if it were possible to do so.
            As an orator, Senator Shively ranked with the best among Indiana's statesmen. He could
                    easily hold an audience for two hours and occasionally he spoke for three hours. In his eloquence
                    and his command of language he was almost equal to Dan Voorhees whom many conceded to be the
                    greatest of Indiana's orators. He was never known to indulge in the  least abuse toward his political foes, even though they heaped all
                    kinds of abuse upon him. Seldom did he make use of an anecdote or illustration. His political
                    speeches consisted of facts and solid reasoning from beginning to end. His services were in frequent
                    demand for addresses on all sorts of occasions, particularly at old settlers meetings and fraternal
                    gatherings. Even at those places his speeches were always of a serious character. He left it to
                    others to amuse and entertain. A Hoosier by birth, but of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     ancestry, he was always a prime favorite at the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     picnics which were held for so many years on the "Island" in the city
                    of 
                        Elkhart
                    . No less a favorite was he at the gatherings of the several orders to which he
                    belonged. One of the finest short addresses the writer ever heard him make was an impromptu speech
                    at a banquet of the Knights of Pythias order in 
                        Elkhart
                    .
            After he entered the Senate, Shively became so engrossed with his committee work that he had little
                    time to make speeches. At the presentation and unveiling of the statue of General Lew Wallace in
                    Statuary Hall at 
                        Washington
                    , he delivered a brief address which is a fair sample of his style of oratory and also
                    shows his trend of thought in regard to one field of government—that of diplomacy. A part
                    of the address is here reproduced: 
                        The history of the foreign relations of the 
                                United States
                             is interesting and instructive. The genesis of these relations roots back into
                            a period of revolution. The generation of men who established the new Republic had written
                            interrogation points over against many dogmas, old pretensions, old institutions, and
                            required them to show their right to survive. Diplomacy had been in the main, a system of
                            war in which cunning, craft, deceit, intrigue, chichane were the weapons. He was esteemed
                            the superior diplomat who was most proficient in the art of deceiving and overreaching his
                            adversary.
                        Like many other idols of misused power, this system passed under the rod of the general
                            inquisition. It was rejected, cast down, and melted away in the flame of the revolution. One
                            of the great founders of the Republic said, "True government is the art of being
                            honest." None knew better than he that the essential functions of good government
                            are few and simple, and that the greatest duty confronting the best government is resistance
                            to that selfish greed and ambition which forever lurk in the shadows of its power and seek
                            to pervert its functions to private and unworthy ends. Nor none knew better than he that the
                            same principles of conduct that make for good neighborhood among individuals make for peace,
                            order, mutual confidence, and good will among nations.
                        
                        Under the Administration of President Washington, Thomas Jefferson, as Secretary of State,
                            promptly discarded the petty artifices and little expedients then current in diplomacy.
                            Openness, sincerity, frankness, candor, and good faith were made the characteristics of our
                            foreign policy. The initial lines of that policy were cast on a plane higher than ever had
                            been reached before in the history of nations. It was a policy becoming a country which had
                            withdrawn sovereignty from kings and reposed it in the bosom of a free people. Afterwards,
                            as President, Jefferson summarized the whole doctrine in the familiar words,
                            "Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with
                            none." Such was the new foreign policy and our diplomacy under it. In this, as in
                            many other things, the excellence of the work of the fathers like that of the sculptor,
                            appears quite as much in what was chiseled away as in what remains.
                        This policy admits no double standard of diplomacy. It allows no accents of trucelent menace
                            toward the weak and helpless, nor whispering sycophancy toward the great and powerful. Its
                            simplicity, impartiality, and justice make its dignity and its strength. The standard thus
                            erected at the beginning, as a rule has been well maintained. Departures, if such there have
                            been, have only served to mark how easy the unwholesome descent, and to admonish to a speedy
                            return into the whiter light of a noble and entirely practical ideal.
                        Time will not permit a call of the roll of the great Americans whose shining talents and
                            rugged worth have adorned the diplomatic service of their country. Suffice it to say that in
                            that company of rare spirits, and well in the front rank, appears the stately form of LEW
                            WALLACE
                    
            
         
         
         
            Reminiscences of 
                        Logansport
                     Civil War Veterans
            By MARGARET STEPHENSON
            
               
                        Logansport
                     people, like those in almost every other Hoosier community, each year for several
                    decades have seen the Grand Army of the Republic Adjutant scratch name after name from records of
                    members, and write memorials for stone monuments. But not until 1932 have they seen the ranks of men
                    who fought in the Civil War dwindle fifty per cent within a few months. Each day during the past
                    year 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers have printed two or three stories of Civil War veteran deaths, and up and
                    down state dailies have averaged one or two a week.
            Because people want to pay tribute to these men of '61 and because they realize the value of
                    stories on the tips of tongues of gray-haired men, they are eager to hear tales of the Civil War
                    told by those who took part in it. The soldiers are as anxious to relate happenings of the struggle
                    as young people and older folk are glad to listen. 
                        Logansport
                     joins in the command common to all Indiana cities, "Hats off to Civil War
                    veterans.
            The "old" soldiers, like soldiers of other wars, are less sentimental about the
                    struggle than people who stayed at home. At eighty-five or ninety years of age, they decry the fact
                    that volumes have been published picturing the war as a bloodless pageant, and they have little
                    patience with writers who have turned the war into an affair of moonlight and romance. Their
                    memories do include some experiences of the war which are interesting, humorous, and historically
                    valuable. It is these which they place first in their reminiscences.1
            
            The only man in 
                        Logansport
                     to boast membership in the Knights of the Golden Circle, Seth Weeden, is confident that
                    the Civil War would have been prolonged had John Hunt Morgan received the aid which he expected from
                    Circle members when he made his raid into the North. "Morgan was an active
                    Knight," the 86-year old veteran relates, "and he had counted on considerably more
                    help than he received from fellow 
                  
                     1 The author had an interesting time while gathering the facts for
                            these sketches. She writes: "The material was obtained from browsing through dusty
                            files, talking through ear trumpets, attending G.A.R. meetings, going fishing with veterans,
                            and visiting with them in their homes." (This and the succeeding footnotes were
                            prepared by the Editor).
               
                     members. But by the time he reached the North, men were
                    disgusted with the way the war was dragging out. That, I believe, accounts for many Circle members
                    refusing to cooperate with Morgan."
            Born in 
                        Ohio
                    , Mr. Weeden was enrolled in the Knights of the Golden Circle when only 14 years old.
                    Although the original purpose of the Circle, according to this member, when organized in the
                    50's was to build an empire of people of the southern part of the 
                  United States, Cuba
               , a part of
                    Mexico and Central America, with a monopoly of the rice, tobacco, cotton and sugar markets, the aim
                    fizzled. During the early years of the Civil War, the organization in the north became pro-southern,
                    approving secession, discouraging northerners from joining the Union army, and assisting
                    "Rebels" in escaping from northern captors.
            Concerning the order, Mr. Weeden tells the following: 
                        The members did more talking than acting. The oath was the most binding I have ever taken.
                            There were grips, signs, pass-words, and the vow that if a man ever divulged any secret of
                            the group, his body should be cut in four pieces, one to be cast to the North, one to the
                            South, one to the East, and one to the West. If you saluted a man with your right arm, and
                            he returned the salute with his left hand, you could be assured he was a Knight. If you
                            shook hands with him, saying, ''I owe you," and he denied the
                            statement, you were sure he knew nothing of the Knights' secrets. But if he
                            replied, "Mutual Aid," you knew he was a member of the Circle.
                    
            
            It was at 
                        Rockville
                    , Indiana, in a rambling, old deserted house about three miles out of town, that Mr.
                    Weeden took the vows of a Knight. Meetings were always held behind barred doors, he says, and after
                    the War started, there were discussions of every conceivable plan to aid the South. Firing a gun
                    three times in succession at night signified that a Circle member was in need of aid.
                    "Membership was large. In fact, as the saying goes, the woods were full of
                    Knights," the gray-haired man explains.
            In the spring of 1862 Mr. Weeden tired of life as a Knight. "I was so young when I became a
                    member that I did not realize the purpose of the organization," he explains, and adds:
                        
                        I was a Union man, and I wanted to fight for the North. For a while I was afraid to desert
                            the Circle. But in 1862 I was old enough to know that I should stand up for what I believed
                            right, and I was mustered in the Union army at 
                                Indianapolis
                             in that year. Immediately I began a  march
                            to 
                                Kentucky
                             with Company C, 78th Indiana Infantry. From that time on I was true to the
                            cause for which the North was fighting, and I don't believe soldiers in the Union
                            army ever knew I had been a Knight.
                    
            
            Mr. Weeden tells of his company, with Captain Howard in charge, being surrounded by several thousand
                    "Rebels" at Henderson, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on December 1, 1862. "Every fourth one ran through the woods shooting at
                    us," he says. "The only orders Captain Howard gave were: 'Every man
                    behind a tree and shoot as long as you live.' It wasn't long until the Captain got
                    shot, and we were so helpless that we hoisted the white flag." Among others, Mr. Weeden was
                    taken prisoner. When his captors let him go, he traveled to 
                        Evansville
                     where he stayed until he enlisted in Company K, 43rd Indiana infantry, on September 16,
                    1864. He was discharged on June 14, 1865.
            To this day Judge John C. Nelson, a Civil War veteran, ninety-one years old, former Mayor of 
                        Logansport
                     and Judge of the Superior Court, assails Governor Oliver P. Morton, whom he knew
                    personally, because "he wanted all the honor and glory in war for himself, and would not
                    consent to there being any great Hoosier generals." "Lew Wallace should have been
                    a general," Judge Nelson contends, "but Governor Morton wouldn't permit
                        it."2
            
            Fighting in the front lines at 
                        Shiloh
                    , one of the bloodiest battles of the War, and marching with Sherman to the sea were
                    among the experiences of Judge Nelson as a soldier. Born in Adams county, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1841, he enlisted as a private in Company C, 70th 
                        Ohio
                     Infantry, in October, 1861.
            He was teaching school in 
                  Brown county, Ohio
               , in April, 1861, when Abraham Lincoln
                    called for 75,000 volunteers. He then believed his job of teaching the three R's more
                    important than going to war, but when he signed a contract to teach the following fall, he reserved
                    the right to leave the classroom for the battlefield, which he did at the beginning of the school
                    year.
            In a brief synopsis of his military career prepared for his children, Mr. Nelson says of the battle
                    of 
                        Shiloh
                    : 
                        The Union troops were commanded by General U. S. Grant, and the Confederate by Albert Sidney
                            Johnston. The first day I served with Colonel Buckland as his aid; the second I commanded my
                            company, the first lieutenant being sick. This battle was one of the most sanguine of 
                        
                           2 Judge Nelson refers here to the ease of General Wallace in
                                    the early part of the war.
                     
                             the war, taking into consideration the number
                        engaged.
                    
            
            Nelson had little patience with "blockheads" in command of troops. His dislike for
                    General H. W. Halleck, who was placed in command of the 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     army at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Landing soon after the battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     is shown in this critical passage: 
                        He proposed to march to Corinth, a distance of twenty miles, and attack Beauregard who was
                            concentrating an army there. We would march two or three miles, and then throw up immense
                            breastworks, and by the time we were finished, which would require several days, we would
                            again take a forward movement, halt, cut down trees, dig up earth, and form another line of
                            works. This continued about six weeks. When we reached the vicinity of Corinth Beauregard
                            was in command of from thirty-five to forty thousand men. When we were about ready to attack
                            his works, he withdrew his army further south, and we captured the place with a few broken
                            guns, but not a single Confederate soldier. We occupied six weeks in marching twenty miles,
                            when the distance should have been made in three days. The weather was hot, the water poor,
                            the men became sick and died rapidly. We lost more men in that campaign than we did in the
                            two days' battle at 
                                Shiloh
                            . If there ever was a military 'blockhead,' it was
                        Halleck.
                    
            
            The ability of Nelson was soon recognized, and in June, 1863, soon after his Division had been
                    ordered to re-enforce Grant at Vicksburg, he was named First Lieutenant of his Company in the 70th 
                        Ohio
                     Infantry. Following the battle of Missionary Ridge and many minor skirmishes, this
                    later 
                        Logansport
                     man was made Captain of his company in March, 1864.
            One of the most prized possessions of Judge Nelson is his Diary, kept during the war. Each day that
                    he could find a few minutes to jot down notes, he took out a small black leather book, and with
                    pencil wrote of the army's maneuvers, of the expense account of his company for food, of
                    the weather, and of humorous incidents.
            During March and April of 1864 some of the items of expense of his company, were set down in his
                    Diary by Nelson: 
                        
                     
                        March—1864
                        
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        Butter and eggs
                        $ .60
                     
                     
                        
                        Bread
                        50
                     
                     
                        
                        Coffee
                        .80
                     
                     
                        April 1
                        Bread
                        .50
                     
                     
                        April 10
                        1 Ham and Kraut
                        2.80
                     
                     
                        April 10
                        2 pies, apple
                        .40
                     
                     
                        April 11
                        Bread
                        .50
                     
                     
                     
                        April 12
                        Sugar and coffee
                        2.65
                     
                     
                        April 14
                        Bread
                        .50
                     
                     
                        April 14
                        Bread
                        .50
                     
                     
                        April 18
                        Bread and pies
                        .90
                     
                     
                        April 20
                        Rations
                        3.95
                     
                     
                        April 22
                        Rations
                        3.00
                     
                     
                        
                        To cook
                        3.00
                     
                     
                        
                        Mess kettle
                        15.00
                     
                     
                        
                        Coffee mill
                        1.00
                     
                     
                        
                        Frying pan
                        .75
                     
                     
                        
                        2 screw drivers, one cartridge box, 2 
                                        Springfield
                                     muskets (damaged and left on field for want of transportation) 1
                                    gun-sling, 1 waist belt, 1 wagon, 1 camp kettle (broken while on wagon.) 3
                        
                     
                  
                    
            
            A list of clothing received of Lieutenant C. A. Grimes on June 21, 1864, included, as Mr.
                    Nelson's Diary says: "5 trousers, 6 drawers, 17 bootees, 8 stockings, 1 wool
                    blanket, 1 knapsack, 2 blouses (unlined) 3 shirts."
            The account of the march from Kingston, 
                        Georgia
                    , to 
                        Atlanta
                     as recorded in his Diary follows: 
                  
                     
                        May 5, 1864—Passed camp of 79th[,] Company J.
                        May 7—Halted for a short time by a house. Men found a large darkey called
                                    Jerry. He weighed about 250 pounds. Had him make a speech for them, and they had
                                    their own fun with him.
                        May 13—Received orders to march about 4 a.m., but waited till 7. Marched
                                    about 4 miles. When we arrived at the front the 4th division was formed in line of
                                    battle and supports. We formed in column and in mass and moved about 11/2 miles, our
                                    skirmishers driving the enemy steadily. About 5 we formed in line of battle. All
                                    afternoon the skirmishing was very severe, but the enemy had fallen back all day.
                        May 14—Skirmishing commenced at daylight. The enemy was fortifying the
                                    front all night. At 8% a.m. we received a field order announcing Grant's
                                    victory. Morgan L. Smith going to attempt taking Strong Ridge. Hooker has driven
                                    them all day with considerable loss. Heavy firing on the right. Morgan L. Smith
                                    succeeds in taking the hill.
                        May 15—Report from Hooker he has taken another lhe of works. Sherman has
                                    ordered McPherson to open all his artillery on the R.R. bridge.
                        May 23—Started at 8 a.m. Marched 15 miles over a very poor country. Water
                                    scarce. Very hot. Great many men gave out.
                        May 24—Marched 10 miles. Camped about 3 p.m. Passed through 
                                        Van
                                     Wert.
                        
                           
                              3 It was not the aim of Lieutenant Nelson to keep a cash
                                        account. What he did was merely to indicate purchases BB he had the time or the
                                        inclination to do so.
                        
                        
                        May 26—Passed through Dallas which is about 10 miles from 
                                        Atlanta
                                    .4
                        
                        May 27—Advanced about 1/2 mile. Heavy skirmishing all along the front. It
                                    is generally supposed the Rebel army will make a stand between this point and the
                                    R.R.
                        May 28 (Sunday)—During 3 days of fighting, 70" [70th Regiment]
                                    has had 1 killed and 9 wounded.
                        June 7—Did not move. Men washed clothes.
                        June 15—Captured the whole Rebel line of skirmishers, the prisoners
                                    amounting to 500 with 2 field officers. Our loss slight in killed and wounded.
                        June 24—Weather very warm. No firing during the day by Rebs from mountain.
                                    The extreme quiet was the cause of various conjectures as to what the enemy was
                                    doing. But an advance of our skirmishers found they were still there.
                        June 25—Just after dark left camp and moved to the right. After getting
                                    lost several times and counter marching, we at last found Jeff Davis'
                                    Division 14 corps and relieved him of one of his Brig.
                        June 28—During the last 60 days our army has been skirmishing and fighting
                                    the enemy 33 days. Deserters say that our batteries make it hotter for them here
                                    than it was at Vicksburg.
                        July 3—While eating our breakfast we were aroused, and looking in the
                                    direction of the hill, saw the Stars and Stripes floating to the breeze, the Rebs
                                    having got wind of our movements and left again. Marched from camp about 8 a.m. for
                                    Marietta, a distance of 7 miles, and camped for the night.
                        July 18—It is reported that the Rebs have left 
                                        Atlanta
                                    .
                        July 20—Left camp at 8 a.m., passed through 
                                        Decatur
                                    , and marched on the road to 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . About 3 miles from 
                                        Atlanta
                                     commenced forming our lines.
                        July 22-(Friday) Early in the morning the Rebs fell back from their works in our
                                    front. Our lines were immediately advanced to the ones the Rebels had left. Fighting
                                    desperate. We attacked with at least 40,000 force. Rebels loss is heavy in killed
                                    and wounded. We have quite a lot of prisoners.
                        July 23—Day spent strengthening lines and burying dead.
                        July 25—The Tenn.-
                                        Ohio
                                     army was transferred from the left to the right wing. Marched about 12
                                    miles. It appears when any flank movement is to be made, this army has to do it. Has
                                    been transferred from one wing to another three times within the last twenty
                                days.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  4 Dallas is more nearly thirty miles from 
                            Atlanta
                        .
            
            
            During the siege of 
                        Atlanta
                    , Judge Nelson, while in charge of the skirmish line, was wounded. A bullet struck him
                    on his right side, passed through his body, and came out at the left side. He was confined to the
                    field hospital for ten days.
            Telling of Sherman's march to the sea he wrote in his memoirs: 
                        This march was a picnic. The weather was beautiful, the roads good, and food plentiful. I had
                            been detached as commissary of musters for 2nd division, 15th corps. When not engaged in my
                            official duty I acted as one of the aids on the staff of General Hazen, in command of the
                            division. During the march I had charge of the pioneer or engineer corps. The duty of corps
                            members was to build or repair roads when necessary. We captured the Fort by assault in
                            about 30 minutes, this division losing a large number of men killed and wounded. After
                            capturing the Fort we communicated with our fleet and received our mail and clothin. In a
                            few days Hardy evacuated Savannah, and our army moved in about December 25, 1864.
                    
            
            Captain Nelson recorded many facts relative to later events of the War. Concerning 
                        Charleston
                     and 
                        Columbia
                    , he wrote: 
                        General Sherman suggested the march from Savannah to 
                                Columbia
                            , and from 
                                Columbia
                             to Goldsborough, N.C., by which we captured 
                                Charleston
                            , but were never within 100 miles of the City. For nearly four years our
                            government had been pounding away at fortifications in this harbor and had accomplished
                            nothing.
                        I saw 
                                Columbia
                             burn. The fire was caused not by any act on the part of Sherman's
                            army, but by members of Wade Hampton's cavalry, who when they evacuated the City
                            set fire to a large quantity of cotton piled in the street. A severe wind was blowing, which
                            carried the burning cotton to the residences, and started a fire which resulted in almost
                            total destruction of the place.5
                  
                    
            
            The Division of which Captain Nelson's regiment formed a part heard that Lee had surrendered
                    before the Division reached Raleigh. Joseph E. Johnston, nearly three weeks later, surrendered to
                    Sherman, the 
                        Logansport
                     veteran relates, and then all the soldiers went to 
                        Washington City
                     to take part in the "grand review." They were then sent to
                            
                  Little Rock, Arkansas
               , on July 4, where they were mustered out on August 10, 1865.
            
               
                  5 "Who fired 
                            Columbia
                        ?" is a question that historical investigators have found it difficult to
                        answer. Some have accepted the testimony of soldiers, who, like Judge Nelson, were present, and,
                        who like him, believed that the town of 8 000 inhabitants caught fire from burning cotton which
                        had been ignited by retreating Confederates. All agree that a strong wind was blowing which
                        could have spread the flames to many buildings. There is other testimony, however, to the effect
                        that bands of Union soldiers carrying torches marched through the streets of 
                            Columbia
                         during the night following the capture of the city firing houses. Certain it is
                        that the fair city was in ruins by morning.
            
            
            Judge Nelson was then offered the rank of second lieutenant in the regular army, but preferred to
                    return to civil life. "When the war was over, the army no longer had any attraction for
                    me," he says.
            He came to 
                        Logansport
                     in 1866, studied law in that city, and was graduated from the 
                        Albany
                     law school. During the World War he was named president of the Board of Management of
                    National Military Homes. Recently he and Mrs. Nelson celebrated their sixty-first wedding
                    anniversary.
            
               
                        Logansport
                     school children as well as adults are fascinated with stories of Civil War veterans,
                    and during the past year several of the men have been guests in classrooms to tell of their parts in
                    the battles about which the youngsters are studying. Charlotte Painton, bright-eyed twelve-year old 
                        Logansport
                     girl, is one of the most fortunate children in school. Any of her classmates at Lincoln
                    junior high school will say so. Her grandfather, William Ziegler, 87 years old and commander of the
                    Cass county G.A.R. post, delights in telling her stories of war times. She sits on a stool at his
                    knee and listens by the hour. Nor is she uninformed about the Civil War. If he is silent for a
                    minute or so, she asks questions.
            Mr. Ziegler claims that he put the torch to the 
                        Franklin
                     railroad bridge. "I had orders to set fire to the bridge—just south
                    of 
                        Nashville
                    , Tenn.,—and in war a command means action," he explains.
                    "So I prepared the torch and had the place ablaze in no time."
            He recalls how soldiers in his regiment almost froze to death at the beginning of January, 1864.
                    "Our dog tents were made of two pieces of thin cloth buttoned together, and we had a piece
                    of gum cloth on which to sleep," he tells. "On New Years day—one of the
                    coldest on record—several of us almost died from exposure as we slept in eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    ."
            This G.A.R. Commander fought at Mill Spring, 
                        Shiloh
                    , and Missionary Ridge, but he fared worse at Chickamauga and Murfreesboro. He was shot
                    through the arm during the latter battle, and was in a hospital for several weeks.
            Mr. Zeigler was born in 
                        Putnam
                    , O., and enlisted as a private in Company E, 19th 
                        Ohio
                     Infantry, in September, 1861, when he was sixteen years old. He served until October,
                    1865.
            
            When discharged he was a corporal. He came to 
                        Logansport
                     in 1873.
            A yam bought from a southern planter was a luxury to W. B. Enyart, an old 
                        Logansport
                     veteran, now past eighty-seven, who fought in many battles in Dixie. Remarching paths
                    tramped by his regiment, he often tells war stories at meetings of the D.A.R., Daughters of Union
                    Veterans, Lincoln Circle, G.A.R., and the Women's Relief Corps.
            Born in Cass county, Mr. Enyart enlisted at the age of seventeen as a private in Company 8, 73rd
                    Indiana Infantry, in 1864. Besides fighting at 
                        Athens
                    , Huntsville, 
                        Decatur
                    , and Triana, all in northern 
                        Alabama
                    , he engaged in many minor skirmishes. Few old soldiers have forgotten the sufferings
                    experienced when food was scarce or poor: 
                        It was while we were on plantations that we had so little to eat. Once in a while we would
                            get so hungry that we would forage, and the biggest luxury we could find was a large, yellow
                            yam. There is hardly a Civil War soldier who will eat beans. We used to put a big potful on
                            to cook, and about the time the beans were getting tender, we'd have to begin
                            fighting. Then we ate burned beans or nothing.
                    
            
            Mr. Enyart was discharged on December 11, 1865. He serves as Quartermaster in the G.A.R., and makes a
                    daily trip to the city's main street.
            
               
                        Logansport
                    's Civil War veterans are known for talents other than speechmaking. R. P.
                    Creager, 86-year old soldier, is known as the city's fisherman, extraordinary. Each summer
                    he and Mrs. Creager go to a cottage at Webster Lake, where he gets into a boat by himself and fishes
                    by the hour.
            At fourteen he ran away from his home near 
                  Williamsburg, Ohio
               , to join
                    the army. He jokingly contends that his wife has taken advantage of his fourteen months'
                    experience as chief cook and bottle washer at Camp Denison. In October, 1864, he entered service as
                    a private in Company I, 60th 
                        Ohio
                     Infantry, and was in the hundred-day service. He then re-enlisted and served until the
                    close of the war.
            Mr. Creager was in the battles of 
                        Chattanooga
                    , Lookout Mountain, Chickamauga and 
                        Franklin
                    . He remembers particularly the curse of having no food at times: 
                        The government provided crackers and sauer belly—pickled meat,  you call it now, and beans and hard tack were sent us. But the
                            hard tack was so hard we had to bore holes in it and let it soak in the river over night
                            before we could eat it. Then there wasn't enough to go around.
                        The worst scare I had during the war was when I had moved up in the brushes pretty close to
                            the Gray lines. I heard the "click, click, click" coming nearer and
                            nearer. I shouted, "Halt!" But on came the "clicks." I
                            pulled out my gun, and just then a bunch of little niggers pleaded, "It's
                            jus' us, boss. Yuh ain't gonna' kill us, huh ?" The Lord
                            knows whatever became of those little pickaninnies. The commander did something with them,
                            but there's no place for questions in war.
                    
            
            Charles E. Hale, of 
                        Logansport
                    , fought in the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , but he is still young enough to be in his law office ever day. At eighty-three, he is
                    both agile and versatile, and his philosophy that it is better to wear out than rust out is known to
                    both old and young in 
                        Logansport
                    .
            Born in Rutland, Vt., Mr. Hale had his early schooling there, and then enlisted as a private in
                    Company H, 14th 
                        Vermont
                     Infantry in 1862. In the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , he was with the Second 
                        Vermont
                     Brigade, which with other regiments, met Pickett and repelled him at the time he tried
                    to go over the top.
            "No, I didn't hear Lincoln deliver his 
                        Gettysburg
                     address, but I saw him later," the veteran answered in reply to a question.
                    "I remember too, when we met Lee's men and captured more of them than the total
                    number of our brigade."
            Mr. Hale was discharged from the army in July, 1863, and immediately enrolled as a student in
                    Middleburg College, a literary school in 
                        Vermont
                    . Following his graduation there, he attended the Law School of the University of 
                        Michigan
                     where he was graduated in 1876. He came to 
                        Logansport
                     in 1880 to be a member of the faculty of Smithson College. He is now Adjutant of the
                    Cass county G.A.R., having been named in October, 1932, to succeed the late J. E. Crain.
            Alexander Young, a veteran who is eighty-eight, was present at the second inauguration of Abraham
                    Lincoln, and holds that to be one of the most interesting experiences of his life. He relates how
                    the captain of his corps held more than 400 soldiers in 
                        Washington
                     for seven days in order that they might witness the inauguration. "And then we
                    couldn't get within two blocks of Lincoln," Mr. Young recalls. "I
                    remember  he came out on the balcony and we could see him raise
                    his hand to take oath. Later we got a better glimpse of him. There were thousands at the
                    inauguration."
            It was in November, 1863, that Mr. Young, at the age of 20, left his farm in 
                        Cass County
                    , and enlisted as a corporal in Company B, 128th Indiana Infantry. He served until April
                    12, 1866, having been stationed in 
                        North Carolina
                     for several months after the war ended.
            The battle of 
                        Franklin
                    , Tenn., was one of the worst he experienced, and tells of 1,750 men being killed in
                    less than six hours. "Breastworks protected us there," he recalls, "but
                    at the siege of 
                        Atlanta
                     we fought in the open and 18,000 men were killed in about two hours. I was on the march
                    with Sherman from 
                        Chattanooga
                     to 
                        Atlanta
                    , but when he went to the sea, my company was sent back to 
                        Tennessee
                    . We met Sherman again in 
                        North Carolina
                    ." Some times there was an unexpected food shortage: 
                        When we neared Marietta, Ga., the latter part of June, 1864, the "Rebels"
                            cut us off from our provisions, and we had nothing to eat for several days. Finally we found
                            a little corn which we parched, and then we ran onto a wheat field and some berry bushes.
                            For six days we lived on wheat and berries.
                    
            
            William Bechtel's legs still take him up and down 
                        Logansport
                    's streets as well as they took him over hill and vale during the Civil War. At
                    eighty-five, he looks back over the days of the war, and is glad they are not to be lived again. He
                    does not regret that he had a chance to fight for what he believed right.
            Too young to get in the regular service, Mr. Bechtel when a lad of fourteen summers, was hired as
                    cook for a corps of men who started from Howard county, Indiana. They were trapped near
                            
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , by Confederate soldiers and forced to live for three days on
                    a hard cracker and a thin slice of fat meat.
            But this did not disillusion Mr. Bechtel. He enlisted as soon as he was old enough as a private in
                    Company H, 153rd Indiana Infantry. It was in northern 
                        Kentucky
                     that his company encountered guerilla warfare. Mr. Bechtel reminisces: 
                        The men who fought; from behind bushes were familiar with every cow path in those parts. And
                            we didn't know a single section. They  would
                            steal our food, clothing, horses, mules—everything on which they could lay their
                            hands. Then squads of soldiers would be detailed to round them up. We never knew in what
                            valley or behind what tree they might be.
                    
            
            When companies of soldiers from the southern battlefields returned to 
                        Louisville
                     to be mustered out, Mr. Bechtel was on guard duty there. He recalls an incident which
                    might have developed into a riot. He relates the story: 
                        One of the camp rules was that the guards were to eat first, Sherman's
                            "coffee coolers" second, and the rest of the fellows third. Well, the
                            "coffee coolers" decided they wanted to eat first. So they lined up for
                            mess and when the door was opened, they started in. The first man was ordered to the rear of
                            the line by the captain. Then a man from the back rushed up, faced the captain, and
                            snatching a sword, stuck it near his own heart and shouted to the line behind him,
                            "Now shove!" Well, the captain couldn't stand that—to
                            murder a man just for food and rules. So the "coffee coolers" got their
                            way.
                    
            
            Questioned concerning the origin of the expression, "coffee cooler," Mr. Bechtel
                    explained: 
                        When the army was on the move, coffee was cooked in iron camp kettles and served boiling hot
                            in tin cups. All the men stood around blowing their coffee, and they often dubbed each other
                            "coffee coolers." The term, '(Sherman's coffee
                            coolers," originated when soldiers in Company H, 353rd Indiana Infantry, were
                            hurrying to catch an army train near 
                                Louisville
                            . They had made a big kettle of boiling coffee, and were so anxious to drink
                            some before getting on the train that they poured it back and forth in kettles to cool
                        it.
                    
            
            At the end of the war, Mr. Bechtel enlisted in the regular army and served until 1869. He then
                    returned to 
                        Kokomo
                     where he was a shoemaker until about twelve years ago when he moved to 
                        Logansport
                     to make his home with his daughter, Mrs. Homer F. Howell. He is Senior Vice-Commander
                    of the Cass county G.A.R.
            Besides these veterans who fought with muskets in the war of the states, 
                        Logansport
                     boasts the only living Civil War nurse in Indiana, and one of the five still alive in
                    the 
                        United States
                    . She is Mrs. Mary E. Miller, who will celebrate her ninetieth birthday on January 27,
                    1933. She lives with her son, Edwin P. Miller, who is sixty-two years old. Her husband died in 1922
                    after they had celebrated their 61st wedding anniversary.
            
            This war nurse chats as vivaciously as a girl about such household tasks as washing, cooking, and
                    dish-washing. She tended a large garden during the past summer, and her cupboards are filled with
                    canned vegetables, strawberry preserves, and blackberry jam. Her flower-garden is the pride of the
                    neighborhood.
            Mrs. Miller tells of her journey to Vicksburg, 
                        Mississippi
                    , to join her husband who was convalescing in a hospital there. In a short time he was
                    assigned to nurse duty, which he performed until pronounced fit for active duty in the lines again.
                    While at the hospital, Mrs. Miller was asked by her husband's superior officer to join the
                    nursing staff which she did. She states that while a nurse she suffered no privations and was safe
                    at all times. The nurses of that day had no uniforms, but wore the hoop-skirts in vogue at the time.
                    This Hoosier girl, who went South to cheer her soldier-husband, was the youngest nurse on the
                    payroll and received $18 a month.
            After seven months at the hospital, Mrs. Miller returned to Indiana. While returning by boat, she was
                    wounded. The slow moving boat, The Empress, was fired on from ambush, and a
                    ricochetting bullet struck Mrs. Miller in the arm, causing a flesh wound. She relates the story
                    briefly: 
                        We were ordered to lie down when the first shots were fired. But if you have ever seen a
                            hoop-skirt, you can imagine what a task that would be. I finally got down on the floor, but
                            not soon enough, and the first thing I knew it seemed a ball of fire had struck my arm.
                    
            
            
               
                  6 The 
                            Logansport
                         chapter of Daughters of Union Veterans honored thin nurse, who served soldiers at
                        Vicksburg, by calling the chapter the ''Mary E. Miller Tent".
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            DIARIES OF JUDGE DAVID MCDONALD
            
                    Foreword
                
            David McDonald of whom a biographical sketch appeared in our September issue, made trips from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., in the winter of 1858-1859 and in the summer of 1862. During 1864, he twice
                    journeyed to the national capital, first in September and again in December. In each instance, he
                    kept a diary covering the trips to and from 
                        Washington
                     and his brief sojourns in the city. He was a lawyer with a strong interest in the
                    courts and the devotees of the law. He was a Republican who had been a Whig. Though never active in
                    politics, he had adopted as his own the views which prevailed among Whigs relative to Jacksonian
                    Democrats and Jacksonian policies. He was affiliated with the Methodist church, but his beliefs were
                    strongly Unitarian. He held vigorous and independent beliefs which he freely expressed in his
                    diaries.
            Judge McDonald was born in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The family migrated to 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana, in 1817 when David was fourteen years of age. He spent very little time in
                    school in Indiana, though he read much. He taught school for a time, and studied law in the office
                    of a local attorney. In 1838, eight years after he was admitted to the bar, he was elected judge of
                    one of the judicial circuits of Indiana. After his election, he lived in 
                        Bloomington
                     where in addition to serving as judge of a large circuit, he taught in the Law School
                    of Indiana University for several years. In 1854 Judge McDonald moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he formed a law partnership with Albert G. Porter. It was while engaged in the
                    practice of his profession in the Hoosier capital that he made the four visits to 
                        Washington
                     of which he kept a record in his journals.
            [DIARY OF VISIT TO WASHINGTON IN WINTER OF 1858-59]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dec. 23, 1858. At 8:40 P.M. left home for 
                                        Washington City
                                    . Took the Belfontaine road. Passed the night pleasantly in a
                                    "Sleeping Car".
                        At 7 A.M. of Friday, Dec. 24, 1858, I found myself at Crestline, 
                                        Ohio
                                     where I breakfasted.
                        Thence took the Fort 
                                        Wayne
                                     & Pittsburg road. At about 10 o'clock the tender broke
                                    an axle; and we were detained about three hours. When this accident occurred, we
                                    were running about forty miles an hour. Yet,  as
                                    it was a hind axle, the tender was dragged forward and nobody was hurt. I did not
                                    even feel the jar.
                        We arrived at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     at 9 o'clock P.M. and stopped at the Alleghaney House.
                        It was dark and I could see little of 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    .
                        My journey through 
                                        Ohio
                                     this day showed a poor, marshy country. I saw no improvements and no
                                    farms equal to the best in Indiana.
                        Dec. 25, 1858. At 1:30 A.M. I left 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     for Harrisburgh, a distance of about 250 miles. We ascended the
                                    Alleghaney Mountains in the night. But, when on the very top of them, the day
                                    dawned. It was clear and frosty, and it was a glorious daybreak. Far below, toward
                                    the Atlantic, the golden light glowed along the horizon—a magnificent
                                    [scene].
                        On the top of the mountain is a village where there are extensive manufactories. Here
                                    we breakfasted—a very good breakfast it was. Then we dashed along at the
                                    rate of 30 miles an hour through the mountains, following the way of the Juniata, at
                                    first a mere rivulet, but at Harrisburgh uniting with the Susquehanna, as wide as
                                    the 
                                        Ohio
                                     at 
                                        Louisville
                                    —a far more beautiful stream than the 
                                        Ohio
                                    .
                        I thought we would soon be out of the mountains; they continued to Harrisburgh. To me
                                    these' mountains were most interesting objects. Clothed everywhere with
                                    pines and cedars, I loved them. Lifting their heads in grandeur to the clouds, I
                                    venerated them. In places, their sides were composed of vast quantities of stone
                                    broken up as if for McAdamizing. In other places they presented solid walls of stone
                                    rising high above us in huge layers. I noticed that these layers were in no place
                                    horizontal. In many places, they had a dip of 30 degrees, and in some places, they
                                    were nearly perpendicular. I noticed, too, that the dip was in some places toward
                                    the east, and in some towards the west. An observant person cannot but conclude that
                                    these mighty mountains have been heaved up by some vast commotion below.
                        It is a wreched country all the way from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     to Harrisburgh—not a good farm to be
                                    seen—miserable patches enclosed with wretched crooked rail fences.
                        We arrived at Harrisburgh at 12 M., just as the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     train was leaving, and we were left behind. So we must spend the
                                    evening in the Capital of 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    .
                        Harrisburgh is a poor place. Not half equal to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . The public buildings do not compare with ours. A brick state-house,
                                    some offices, and a poor looking Insane Asylum are all I saw.
                        It was Christmas and all the people were out buying toys etc. Many were
                                    drunk—many cursing, swearing, quarrelling, using most obscene language.
                                    White men and negroes seemed on an equality. It looked like a general riot. I never
                                    saw anything like it in a 
                                        Western City
                                    . The landlord said they had only three policemen.
                        Sunday, Dec. 26, 1868.
                        At 2:30 A.M. we took the cars for 
                                        Baltimore
                                     and arrived there at 8 A.M.
                        
                        As the passage was mostly in the night I could see little. What glimpses I had showed
                                    a wretched country—poor land, poor fences—poor houses.
                        
                           
                                        Baltimore
                                     is a great city—here are magnificent
                                    churches—splendid residences—-ships and small craft
                                    innumerable. The city surrounds the head of the bay (Chesapeake) which seems to run
                                    into the city's very heart.
                        I looked at the 
                                        Washington
                                     monument, which seemed to me to be fine; and at the monument
                                    commemorative of the battle of Northpoint, which seemed to me very
                                    poor—as good however as the battle.
                        At 11 A.M., I went to the Unitarian Church. It was all very
                                    fashionable—here was the organ—and here two
                                    singers—a man and a woman.
                        The Rev. a Dr. Somebody read a poor sermon, and read it badly. The congregation was
                                    small. It was, upon the whole, a poor affair.
                        Monday, Dec. 27, 1858. At 4% A.M., took the train for 
                                        Washington
                                    . Got there at 7 A.M.
                        Here I am in the 
                                        Federal City
                                     at 
                                        Brown
                                    's Hotel, midway on 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Avenue, the widest street I ever saw. The Capitol is at the east end of
                                    the avenue, the President's house at the west, the P.O. department and the
                                    Patent office on the N.W. and the Treasury Department immediately east of the
                                    Presidential mansion.
                        This day I went to the Capitol and looked around it a little. I examined little of
                                    the interior except the rotunda.
                        Tuesday, Dec. 28, 1858. After breakfast I went to the navy yard about 1 mile S.E. of
                                    the Capitol. I had not time to examine it. I saw, however, that it was on a grand
                                    scale, and was enclosed like a penitentiary with a high wall. Near the entrance were
                                    four large cannon taken in 1804 from the Algerines near Tripoli by Com. [1/2]1
                        
                        At 11 o'clock A.M., I went with R. W. Thompson2 to the
                                    Supreme Court room. After sitting there a while, the Judges marched in headed by the
                                    Chf. Justice. They wore long black gowns. The impression the first sight of them
                                    gave me was that of weary, worn out, feeble old men, whose places would be rather in
                                    their chimney corners, than here. Nor could I see in them any great marks of great
                                    intellect. They seemed just the men who might get up the shabby decisions in
                                    Howard's Reports.
                        The Court room is small, and much in the shape of our Representatives Chamber. On the
                                    columns are fixed the faces of all the former Chief Justices sculptured in marble,
                                    Marshall, Rutledge, Jay, Ellsworth. Facing the Judges on the opposite wall are the
                                    blind goddess with her sword and scales, some angel on her left with the
                                    constitution, and an eagle on her right.
                        Now let us look at the Judges a little more closely:
                        1. In the middle sets Taney, the Chief Justice. He looks 80 years old. He is feeble,
                                    decrepit, bowed together. Complexion dark, face 
                              
                                 1 The diarist meant to fill in the name but did not.
                                            He was probably thinking of Preble or 
                                                Decatur
                                            .
                              
                                 2 Richard W. Thompson of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            , Indiana. Earlier a Whig member of the House and later
                                            Secretary of the Navy under Hares.
                           
                                     wrinkled—small head—low
                                    forehead. Voice feeble and scarcely articulate. His hair is heavy, and long, and
                                    uncombed, and black, with a little gray. His face is expressionless. He seems to
                                    have his second sight and reads without glasses.
                        This is the Chief Justice of the U.S. who got his office by being the tool of Jackson
                                    in removing the deposits from the U.S. Bank!3 There he is! I can
                                    see nothing noble, nothing manly in him. Jesuitical indeed he looks, but
                                    not' judicial.
                        2. On the right of the Chief Justice is the chair of Judge McLean.4 He is not in it, but I will describe him:
                        A man more than 70 years old, tall, fine formed, majestic,—his hair very
                                    thin but not gray—pretty good shaped head and large—an
                                    imperious look, as much as to say "I am sir Oracle". He has been a
                                    long time in office, and in high life. He loves good eating, and goes to sleep on
                                    the Bench in the midst of an argument. He has a miscellaneous, not a logical mind.
                                    His powers of intellection are not strong. His style is wishy washy. He has no
                                    taste. He never was a thorough lawyer though he thinks he is. He affects to be a
                                    magnificent man. But he lacks a simple heart, and an earnest mind. "I do
                                    not like you, Dr. Fell".
                        3. Catron5 is on the right of McLean's chair.
                        He is a large, heavy old man somewhere about 65 years of age. He has a good wholesome
                                    face and a large head. And yet I don't see any marks of great intellect. He
                                    reads without spectacles and reads very badly. In fact, I heard none of them read an
                                    opinion well. Our Perkins is equal to the best of them in that respect.
                        On the whole, however, I think Catron has as much talent as any of them.
                        4 Nelson6 sits on Catron's right. He looks to be some 70
                                    years old. He is very gray—heavy set—a little
                                    corpulent—large head. He looks more like a southern than a northern man.
                                    There is much similarity between him and Catron; and I do not know which is
                                    superior.
                        5. 
                                        Campbell
                                    
                           7 sits on the right of Nelson. He is younger than
                                    those above named, say 55 years old. He has a bald head. Nothing remarkable in his
                                    appearnce. No talent patent in his face. He is one of those indifferent kind of men,
                                    of whom little can be said in any way, except that his face is strongly marked with
                                    benevolence. Certainly he is a man of an amiable, sweet, kind heart, unless
                                    physiognomy is a liar.
                        
                           
                              3 Roger B. Taney of 
                                            Maryland
                                         was transferred from the office of Attorney General to that of
                                        Secretary of the Treasury in September, 1833. He was not a tool of Jackson, but
                                        was placed at the head of the Treasury Department because he was in thorough
                                        agreement with the President in regard to the removal of deposits from the Bank
                                        of the 
                                            United States
                                        . When John Marshall died in 1836, Jackson made Taney Chief Justice,
                                        an office which he held until his death in 1864. Marshall filled this great
                                        office very nearly thirty-five years, and Taney almost thirty years. Taney was
                                        born in 1777, and wan, therefore, 81 years of age in 1868.
                           
                              4 John McLean of 
                                            Ohio
                                        . Appointed associate justice by Jackson in 1829. Born in 1786, he
                                        was 75 in 1868.
                           
                              5 John Catron of 
                                            Tennessee
                                        . Appointed associate justice by Jackson in 1837. Born in 1786, he
                                        was 72 in 1868.
                           
                              6 Samuel Nelson of 
                                            New York
                                        . Appointed associate justice by Tyler in 1846. Born in 1792, he was
                                        66 in 1868.
                           
                              7 John A. Campbell of 
                                            Alabama
                                         (lived a considerable part of his mature life in 
                                            Georgia
                                         before going to 
                                            Alabama
                                        ), Appointed associate justice by Pierce in 1853. Born in 1811, he
                                        was 47 in 1868.
                        
                        
                        6. 
                                        Wayne
                                    
                           8 sits next Taney on the left. He is 70 years old.
                                    Large, fat, heavy-set. He has a large head and a tolerable face. Loves good eating,
                                    I think.
                        
                           
                                        Wayne
                                    , Grier, Nelson & Catron are in appearance so much alike that it
                                    is difficult, sitting before them as I do, with the light;n my face, and on their
                                    backs, to say how they differ as to talents, beef, age, or intellect.
                        7. Daniel9 is at the left of 
                                        Wayne
                                    . He is between 65 and 70 years old. Wears a wig—is
                                    long-faced, lantern-jawed. Looks good natured & jovial. It is certain he is
                                    not in any way above mediocrity. Nothing but office could distinguish him beyond his
                                    own neighborhood.
                        I heard an opinion delivered concerning a 
                                        California
                                     land claim. Daniel dissented. He expressed his dissent ore tenus. It
                                    was scolding, it was bad rhetoric, bad English, bad taste, and bad sense. The thing
                                    seemed to me to combine want of learning and want of manner.
                        8. Grier10 sits at the left of Daniel. He is about 70 years old.
                                    Is a heavy fat man. Looks like he had eaten a world of pork, has a good natured
                                    face—a very gray head. His head is large and seems well formed. And I
                                    should think he had talents; but he don't look like a thoroughly cultivated
                                    man.
                        9. Clifford11 is on the left of Grier. He seems about 60 years
                                    old—the yongest looking man among them, by far. Indeed he and 
                                        Campbell
                                     are all of them who seem to have enough bodily vigor, enough to support
                                    vigor of mind. But I doubt his mental vigor. And yet he has a large, fine head
                                    & face. But he looks too good natured, too easy—his face shows
                                    nothing of the severity which commonly marks a closely thinking judge.
                        These judges all sit crouched on their chairs. They do not hold up their heads like
                                    men even when reading opinions. And while counsel address them they often read, and
                                    converse with each other.
                        Upon the whole I pronounce them an umpromising set—a disgrace to the
                                    nation—a burning disgrace to the partisan presidents who placed them
                                        there.12
                        
                        And this judgment which I form from seeing them accords with what I have thought from
                                    reading their decisions in the latter volumes of Howard.
                        They are just such men as might give the decisions rendered in the 
                              
                                 8 James M. Wayne of 
                                                Georgia
                                            . Appointed associate justice by Jackson in 1835. Born in 1790,
                                            he was 68 in 1858.
                              
                                 9 Peter V. Daniel of 
                                                Virginia
                                            . Appointed associate justice by 
                                                Van
                                             Buren in 1840. Born in 1784, he was 74 in 1858.
                              
                                 10 Robert C. Grier of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            . Appointed associate justice by Polk in 1846. Born in 1794 he
                                            was 64 in 1858.
                              
                                 11 Nathan Clifford of 
                                                Maine
                                             (lived a considerable portion of his mature life in 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            ). Appointed associate justice by Buchanan in 1856. Born in 1803
                                            he was 55 in 1858.
                              
                                 12 This statement was written a year after the Dred
                                            Scott decision was rendered when most men were either strongly against or
                                            strongly for the majority of the judges of the Supreme Court.
                           
                                     Dred Scott Case, or, in the Ind. University
                                        Case,13 its brother—both monstrous, incredible.
                        Here is an argument before the Sup. Court. Two questions are made. 1. Is a Railroad
                                    which is incorporated in several states a citizen of any of them so as to be sued in
                                    the U. S. Courts? 2. Can a corporation be sued for libel?
                        In the affirmative were Davis14 & Reverdy Johnson15 of Md. On the negative, Donaldson16
                                    & Sly.17
                        
                        I have heard Johnson's argument. He is a rather small, well made
                                    man—a good formed head, but not very large. His voice is not good. He is
                                    very earnest, very impassioned, very clear and logical. He acts rather too
                                    much—walks about—feels at home here—never
                                    pronounces ing right.
                        He began without parade, his hands in his breeches pockets. But he soon fired up, and
                                    moved off like a steamboat.
                        The argument was opened by Donaldson in a neat statement of the facts and a fair
                                    speech. He was followed by H. Winter Davis who made a very good speech. Then came
                                    Johnson; and Sly closed it. It lasted two days. Upon the whole, it was pretty well
                                    done. But I have certainly heard things as well done in Indiana. Johnson looks very
                                    much like old Ed. Browning.
                        Mr. Thompson18 moved my admission to the bar. The Chief Justice
                                    assented. I walked forward—looked as big as I could. The clerk swore
                                    me—charged me only $6.50—I paid it—took
                                    my seal and my license—and went to dinner.19
                        
                        Wednesday Dec. 29, 1868. With Mr. Thompson, I looked into the patent office this
                                    morning. Saw so many strange things that it is not worth while to attempt their
                                    description. The whole affair, so complicated, so various, so vast, confounds one.
                        I forgot to say that yesterday I took a stroll around all the public offices and the
                                    president's house. Everything is white, grand, vast.
                        
                           
                              13 The "Indiana University Case"
                                        referred to grew out of an action brought by 
                                            Vincennes
                                         University o. the State of Indiana (the Indiana Legislature passed
                                        a measure authorizing a suit against the State) to recover for lands in 
                                            Gibson County
                                         given to the state by Congress for the use of a State University.
                                        For thirty years the income from the sale of these lands had been given to
                                        Indiana University. The 
                                            Marion County
                                         Circuit Court found for 
                                            Vincennes
                                         University. The Indiana Supreme Court reversed the decision of the
                                        lower court. The case went to the Supreme Court of the 
                                            United States
                                         which, in January, 1853, reversed the judgment of the Indiana
                                        Supreme Court. The federal judges based their decision on the principle of the
                                        "Dartmouth College Case", holding that the state of Indiana
                                        could not divest 
                                            Vincennes
                                         University of its title to the land once vested in that
                                        institution. In 1854 Congress granted unsold lands in Indiana to the state to
                                        the amount of 19,040 acres, to be disposed of by the state in order that Indiana
                                        University might be reimbursed for the losses imposed by the decision of the
                                        federal Supreme Court.
                           
                              14 Henry Winter Davis of 
                                            Maryland
                                        . A Whig and later a Know-nothing. During the Civil War he berarne a
                                        Radical, attaining his greatest prominence as an ally of Thaddeus Stevens in the
                                        House. He was joint-author with Senator Benjamin Wade of 
                                            Ohio
                                         of the "Wade-Davis Manifesto", an attack on
                                        Lincoln published in July, 1864.
                           
                              15 Reverdy Johnson a Whig party leader of
                                                
                                 Maryland. United States
                               Senator, 1846-1849.
                                        Attorney General under Taylor 1849-1860. Prominent lawyer. Democratic Senator,
                                        1863-1868.
                           
                              16 The Donaldson mentioned cannot be identified.
                           
                              17 No data in regard to Sly has been found.
                           
                              18 See footnote 2, above.
                           
                              19 The object of this visit to 
                                            Washington
                                         on the part of McDonald was to obtain a license to practice before
                                        the federal courts.
                        
                        
                        On the north of the president's house and in full view of it is the
                                    equestrian statue of Jackson, in a park. It is a bronze statue—gigantic
                                    in size. There is a marble platform some 6 feet high. On this is a mighty bronze
                                    studhorse reared on his hind feet—his forefeet high in air as if ready to
                                    jump off the platform. Saddle, bridge, girths and all look very natural. On the back
                                    of this stallion, old Hickory sits like a god—his sword on thigh and his
                                    cap in hand. And he seems to swear his wonted oath that something shall be done.
                        I suppose this affair is well got up. But I do not venerate either the memory of
                                    Jackson or the statue. With him, the moral tone of our country began to go
                                    down—the impetus he gave it has ever since been downward. He is
                                    responsible for it all. And I worship no such hero.20
                        
                        The grounds about the President's house did not strike me as very
                                    remarkable. The trees are fine; but they [there] are not many of the kind of our
                                    noble forest trees—no poplars—no oaks—no
                                    sugartrees. I walked all round it, without much desire to see the old man within, by
                                    name, James Buchanan—and I did not see him.
                        Off to the southeast from the President's house some 600 yards is the
                                    Smithsonian Institute. I did not go to it. It is built of red stone—the
                                    appearance is just as if painted with Spanish brown as the dutch paint their houses,
                                    I believe the material is red granite. Its sight [site] is too low to show the
                                    building well.
                        I called on Andrew Wylie21 this evening at his office. He looks a
                                    good deal like his father. But I fear his father's great talents have not
                                    descended to him. His office has a shabby appearance; and I am told he does not rank
                                    among the first rate lawyers here.
                        Hacks, hacks, hacks—these are crowded before every hotel—ready
                                    to take a man any place—to public buildings or private dens—to
                                    churches or bawdy houses—to Courts or billiard salons, or anywhere
                                    else—a dollar an hour is the charge.
                        Thursday, Dec. 30, 1858. This is a dark sleety morning.
                        I went early to the Capitol. It were endless to describe its interior. On its front,
                                    is a raised platform of stone surrounded by various figures—Goddesses,
                                    eagles &c, &c. These stood Cockburn's fire in 1814 not
                                    however without a scorching but here they stand yet. Whether it was in good taste to
                                    let them remain all scorched and mutilated as they are by the fire which burned down
                                    the Capitol, is I think doubtful. The sight of them may well make every Briton who
                                    enters the Capitol blush for the Vandal act of his nation. But it may also make an
                                    American blush to think that a handful of British soldiers marched to the Capitol
                                    and burnt it without any serious opposition.
                        
                           
                              20 The diarist here voices the general view held by Whigs
                                        of Jackson's time.
                           
                              21 Andrew Wylie, 
                                            Washington
                                         attorney, was a son of President Andrew Wylie of Indiana University
                                        (died 1861) with whom Judge McDonald was associated when teaching in the Law
                                        School of that institution.
                        
                        
                        On the rear of the Capitol (the East), on the elevated platform at the principal
                                    entrance on each side are collosal22 figures. On the left side
                                    as we go out is a marble statue of a white man holding a naked Indian. The
                                    Indian's back is to the white man. They are in a struggle. The
                                    Indian's right arm is erected grasping a tomahawk, and it is grasped at the
                                    wrist by the right hand of the white man which holds it in a vise. A collossal
                                    figure of a white woman and her child sits at their right. On their left stands a
                                    collossal dog looking into the white man's face. What the group represents
                                    I do not know.
                        On the right side of the passage as we go out is a collossal figure of 
                                        Columbus
                                     (I suppose) looking eastward towards the statute of 
                                        Washington
                                     and holding a globe in his hand which he reaches out as if beaconing
                                    [beckoning] 
                                        Washington
                                     to come and take it. On the right of 
                                        Columbus
                                     is a woman quite naked looking earnestly towards 
                                        Washington
                                    's statue—what she represents I know not. But the
                                    figure is obscene.
                        In a park 300 or 400 yards east of the Capitol is a collossal figure of 
                                        Washington
                                     erected on black granite 6 feet from the ground. He looks with benign
                                    face toward the Capitol. The figure is gigantic and I suppose very fine, It is
                                    marble. On the granite under the figure is inscribed thus:
                        On the north—"First in war."
                        On the south—"First in peace."
                        On the west—"First in the hearts of his countrymen."
                        On the east—"Simulacrum istud ad magnum libertatis exempleum nec
                                    sine apsa duranturum Horatius Greenongh faciebat."23
                        
                        At 11 o'clock I went into the Supreme Court room. An admiralty case is on
                                    hand. Cushing24 commenced the argument of it; and after hearing
                                    him awhile, I went to the law library.
                        Cushing speaks well. He has a great command of language and seems to possess a clear,
                                    though not a gigantic mind.
                        The law library is a grand affair. Here are all sorts of law books, and an attentive
                                    librarian with a polite negro to hand down any book called for.
                        Friday Dec. 31, 1858. A rainy morning. After breakfast I bought an umbrella for 76
                                    cts and went to the U. S. Law Library.
                        Thence, at 11 o'clock A. M. I went to the Sup. Court room. The hour of
                                    meeting is 11, but the judges never come in promptly at that hour.
                        
                           
                              22 The diarist doubled the "1" in
                                        "colossal" in each instance.
                           
                              23 The statue described was that by Horatio Greenough, as
                                        the Latin inscription indicates. Congress authorized this sculptor to execute
                                        the work in 1832. He spent eight years on the task, carving the statue from
                                        cararra marble in 
                                            Italy
                                        . Sometime after completion, the work arrived in 
                                            Washington
                                         in 1843. It was at first placed in the Rotunda of the Capitol, but
                                        was found to be too heavy for the floor. It was removed to the plaza in front of
                                        the Capitol. Here it stood until 1908, when it was removed to the National
                                        Museum. The statue is 12 ft. high and cost $44,000. 
                                            Washington
                                         is garbed in a Roman toga. While on the plaza the statue faced the
                                        Capitol. The upraised right hand with the thumb seemingly pointing southward and
                                        the index finger northwestward caused an observer to remark that 
                                            Washington
                                         was trying to say—"My body is at 
                                            Mount Vernon
                                        , my clothes are in the Patent Office". (See H. P.
                                        Caemmerer, 
                                 
                                                Washington
                                             the National Capitol, pp. 616-616, for a picture of the
                                        statue and matter pertaining to it).
                           
                              24 Caleb Cushing of 
                                            Massachusetts
                                        . A Whig until the break between 
                                            Clay
                                         and Tyler in 1841. Adhering to Tyler, be soon found himself a
                                        Democrat. He became well known as a Democratic leader. Was Chairman of the 
                                            Charleston
                                         Convention in 1860.
                        
                        
                        When the judges do come the manner is as follows: The clerk, Mr. Carrol, comes first,
                                    then the Chief Justice, then the rest. On their appearance everyone rises
                                    up—the Judges being seated the marshall says, "O Yea! O Yea! All
                                    persons having business in the Sup. Court will now draw near, and they will be
                                    heard! for the Court is now in Session! God save the U. S. and this Court!"
                        The admiralty case begun yesterday is still under argument.
                        It is a contest between Mass. and S. C. lawyers. The Yankees are Cushing and
                                        Gillet.25 The Southerners are brown26
                                    and 
                                        Mitchell
                                    .27
                        
                        As I said yesterday, Cushing is an accomplished man.
                        Gillet is very tall, large—he looks consequential and magnificent.
                        
                           
                                        Mitchell
                                     is a squat, heavy-set man of good sense. But his style, taste, and
                                    manner are bad. He is about 50 years old.
                        Mr. Brown is a bluff, hairy, swearing fellow—has warts on his
                                    face—looks a little like Bob Walpole—has no talents, learning,
                                    or taste. He raves—he rants—claps his hands—flies
                                    around—and all about nothing. His back is often turned to the Judges.
                                    Such conduct in a jury trial in our Courts would be laughed at.
                        I visited the Congress library. All I can say is that the multitude of books is
                                    bewildering.
                        Next I went to the Representative Chamber. It is very large. All carved work,
                                    tinselled and red. I do not like the taste. I call it gingerbread, though the polite
                                    call it Italian. Here I found Wilson28 of 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    . He took me to the Botanic department. Here are trees of all tropical
                                    growth—the bread tree—the palm—the banana, and
                                    everything else. Here are flowers, and shrubs and grass—and every rare
                                    vegetable thing-the tea plant among the rest. To describe and particularize is
                                    impossible. The sight bewilders and overwhelms me.
                        At night, Thompson and I called on Reverdy Johnson. We spent an hour or two with him.
                                    He is a plain, unpretending man. At home, he evidently is in all law questions. He
                                    told us that Wirt29 always wrote and committed his law arguments
                                    when he had a great case. He said Pinckney30 was in the habit of
                                    doing so too. He thinks Pinckney the greatest lawyer this country has produced.
                        He says when Taney practised law, he was the most troublesome opponent he ever met.
                                    And he thinks Taney's mind is not at all impaired by age, wherein I differ
                                    with Mr. Johnson.
                        On leaving him, he set out a bottle of brandy, and one of whiskey but tasted none
                                    himself.
                        Saturday, Jan. 1, 1859. I staid at 
                                        Brown
                                    's Hotel till 12 M. Then 
                              
                                 25 Ransom H. Gillett of 
                                                New York
                                            . A prominent attorney and Democratic politician of that state.
                              
                                 26 No certainty as to the 
                                                Brown
                                             meant here.
                              
                                 27 Not possible to identify the 
                                                Mitchell
                                             mentioned.
                              
                                 28 James Wilson of 
                                                Crawfordsville
                                            , Indiana. Republican member of national House from his
                                            district, 1867-1861.
                              
                                 29 William Wirt of 
                                                Maryland
                                            . Member of the Cabinet under 
                                                Monroe
                                             and John Quincy Adams. Noted constitutional lawyer.
                              
                                 30 Johnson no doubt referred to William Pinkney
                                            (McDonald spells the name as did the 
                                                South Carolina
                                             Pinckneys), the famous 
                                                Baltimore
                                             lawyer and statesman, who died in 1822 at the age of 58.
                           
                                     with J. Hughes,31 went to
                                    the President's—Everybody was there. With the crowd, hat in
                                    hand, we pressed along from room to room, till we were in the Presence, Here he
                                    was—James Buchanan—a large, tall, gray-haired, majestic
                                    looking old man. He shook my hand cordially, was "very glad to see Judge
                                    McDonald of Indiana"—indicated for me to pass on—and
                                    all was over. Then his niece, Miss Lane, took me by the hand, and said pretty,
                                    cordial things—we then pressed on and soon found ourselves outside again.
                        Thence we went to see Gen'l Cass32—an old man
                                    with a wig. He and his women did not much attract me. Surely this Secretary of State
                                    is a great man; but he don't look much like it.
                        Next we called on Mr. Floyd,33 cretary of War. A noble looking
                                    old man is he, and he has a noble looking wife. Whether he is a good
                                    man—? query?
                        Then we went to see Mr. Cobb,34 Secretary of the
                                    Treasury—a man 45 to 50 to 50 years old—a big, black, curly
                                    head—looks smart, bright, talented, desperate, devilish.
                        Next we called on Judge Black,35 the Att'y General. I
                                    don't like his looks. He is tall, gaunt, hollow-cheeked. He can't
                                    be a great man.
                        Then we went to Thompson's,36 the Secretary of the
                                    Interior. Nothing remarkable in his appearance—and already I forget how
                                    he looked.
                        Next we call on Gov. 
                                        Brown
                                    
                           37 of Tenn. Post-Master General. He is evidently a
                                    soft, silly old man. His wife and daughter were infinitely polite.
                        Then we called at Senator Bright's.38 Nobody at home.
                        Sunday, Jan. 2, 1859. This morning, I set out to find Dr. Nadell's church. I
                                    got there at 9 A.M. and went in to class meeting. The room was poorly
                                    furnished—one old chair and some benches. About six old men were there,
                                    from middle aged to old. The Leader, a bachellor [sic] of 45 or 50, a retired
                                    shoemaker now living on his money, is a good looking man. The singing was poor. All
                                    things were done in a low tone. There was little passion, little animation. The
                                    speaking hardly as instructive as we usually have in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . None present were men of refinement or learning.
                        I went to hear Nadell preach: but I was taken with such a bowel complaint 
                              
                                 31 James Hughes of Indiana. Democratic member of
                                            national House, 1867-1869. Appoined a judge on the 
                                                United States
                                             Court of Claims, 1860, by Buchanan. serving until 1864.
                                            Republican member of Indiana Legislature, 1865-1866. 
                                                United States
                                             Cotton Agent, 1866-1868.
                              
                                 32 Lewis Gass of 
                                                Michigan
                                            , Territorial Governor of 
                                                Michigan
                                            , Secretary of War in Jackson's Cabinet, 
                                                United States
                                             Senator. Democratic candidate for the presidency in 1848.
                                            Secretary of State under Buchanan.
                              
                                 33 John B. Floyd of 
                                                Virginia
                                            . Secretary of War under Buchanan. Resigned in December, 1860.
                                            After 
                                                Virginia
                                             seceded, he became a Confederate General.
                              
                                 34 Howell Cobb, noted Democratic leader of 
                                                Georgia
                                            . Secretary of the Treasury under Buchanan. Earlier Speaker of
                                            the House of Representatives, 1849-51.
                              
                                 35 Jeremiah S. Black of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            . Noted lawyer of his day. Attorney General under Buchanan.
                                            Transferred to the State Departmetn when Gass resigned in 1860.
                              
                                 36 Jacob Thompson of 
                                                Mississippi
                                            . Democratic member of national House, 1839-1851. Secretary of
                                            the Interior, 1857-1861. Inspector-general in the Confederate army.
                              
                                 37 Aaron V. Brown of 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Democratic member of national House, 1839-1846. Governor of 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . 1845-1847. Postmaster General under Buchanan, 1857-1859.
                              
                                 38 Jesse D. Bright, powerful Democratic politician of
                                            Indiana. 
                                                United States
                                             Senator, 1845-1862.
                           
                                     that I could not stay. So I went to my hotel.
                        At night, I went to the Unitarian Church close to 
                                        Brown
                                    's Hotel. I was much surprised to find them going over the
                                    episcopal liturgy with very slight variations. The congregation was small, but
                                    select. After the prayers etc., a drawling sermon was read. If the Unitarians all
                                    preach as they do here and in 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , I do not wonder they make so few proselytes. Neither the matter nor
                                    the manner of this sermon was worth hearing or seeing. Here too, was the organ and
                                    two singers! The rest read the hymn book. What a pity that what is perhaps the true
                                    faith should have so lifeless, so formal a worship. A man with talents and learning,
                                    arid a soul in him could change these things for good. I would infinitely prefer
                                    Theo. Parker with all his heresies. He has a soul, and he may be right, too. I will
                                    not now decide; but there is to me something soul stirring in his notion of the
                                    "Aboslute Religion," rising into the Universal and Eternal, and
                                    regarding Judaism and Catholicism, and Protestantism as mere ephemeral forms,
                                    temporary, fading, vanishing away.
                        Monday, Jan. 3, 1859. This morning I went to the Smithsonian Institute. The entire
                                    buildings are of red stone—just the color of Spanish brown painting. It
                                    is situated in an enclosure of about 50 acres. Here is the lecture
                                    room—very fine. Here are some 150 Indians painted, and a marble figure of
                                    the dying gladiator. There are there, rooms full of all birds, quadrupeds, reptiles,
                                    corals, and the Lord knows what. Of all these I can give not any description. I
                                    bought a pamphlet of my cicerone which describes some of them.
                        I went at night to the Smithsonian Institute to hear Prof. Danas39 lecture on Corals. He is a wretched speaker: but his lecture was ex-tremely
                                    interesting. He told many things as to corals which were new to me.
                        Upon my return about 10 o'clock P.M., Hughes asked me to go with him to look
                                    at some of the magnificent gaming houses. We were ushered into one with ceremony.
                                    Invited to a sumptuous table of all good things to eat—oysters, terrapin
                                    etc., etc., all gratis—then we looked at their far bank. I did not
                                    understand it; and of course I did no more than look. We staid a few minutes, then
                                    went to another of the same sort; looked on a little and then went out. Curiosity
                                    led me to see these hells. I am sorry I went. I think I did wrong even looking at
                                    them. At least my conscience smote me; and I pray God to forgive me; 0 the
                                    wickedness of this city. Surely 
                                        Washington
                                     is Sodom and 
                                        Georgetown
                                    , Gomorrah. Gaming, whoring, and political knavery are the prevailing
                                    vices.
                        Tuesday, Jan. 4, 1859. This morning, I went to the Sup. Court.
                        At 12 M. I went to the Senate Chamber to witness the removal of The ceremonies were
                                    imposing, the Senators to their new chamber. The ceremonies were imposing. 
                              
                                 39 James Dwight Dana, noted geologist and zoologist.
                                            Born 1813. died 1896. He was in 
                                                Washington
                                             much of the time from 1842 to 1865. He waa professor of
                                            "natural hia-tory" at Yale when McDonald heard him lecture
                                            in 
                                                Washington
                                            .
                           
                                     Crittenden40 made a speech,
                                    and then Breckinridge41 the V. President. The speech of the
                                    latter was exceedingly fine.
                        Here I saw Seward,42 a man of 48 years, a roman
                                    nose—half white sandy hair, tall—and indifferent face. And
                                    there was old 
                                        Houston
                                    ,43 large, heavy, baldheaded—a kind face,
                                    no marks of cultivation.
                        And now I start home at 3:40 P.M. It is snowing and thawing. I have a dread bf going
                                    over the mountains; I should call it a foreboding—but I care little of
                                    it. I am in God's hands—May he take me safely home; and whether
                                    I live or die may I be his, prepared for all events.
                        And now we are on the cars. Yonder is a large frame building with the sign,
                                        "Mt. Vernon Cane factory. All canes manufactured
                                    here warranted of Mt. Vernon wood!" Humbug.
                        We took the Balt. road about 30 miles, through a poor country of low hills and flat
                                    ground—oak and pine the principal trees. Shrubs and briars abound. At
                                    what they call the relay house about 9 miles from 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , we took supper and the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     and 
                                        Ohio
                                     just at dark. What a road, winding, dashing, jolting-we went all night
                                    through the mountains—at daylight we came to Grafton. There we took the
                                    Parkersburg road to Clarksburgh in search of Bill Alexander. What a night I have
                                    spent on this dangerous road! But all is safe, thank God!
                        Wednesday, Jan. 5, 1859.
                        Here we are in Clarksburg about sunrise. Alexander is not here. We (i.e. I &
                                    Goss) stop at a 
                                        Virginia
                                     tavern in a 
                                        Virginia
                                     town among 
                                        Virginia
                                     Hlls. What an awful place! I do not find a decent man, woman, nigger or
                                    house. This is slavery & slave territory. O 
                                        Virginia
                                    , mother of states! How art thou fallen! Happy if thou didst but know
                                    thy degradation—but it is hid from thy eyes.
                        We started back for Grafton at 3:50 P.M. where we arrived about 5 and took lodging
                                    for the night awaiting the Wheeling cars tomorrow morning 6 o'clock.
                        As our journey back to Grafton was by daylight, I had a good opportunity to notice
                                    the country. It is 22 miles through hills and narrow glens. Wretched hovels and
                                    little fields on hillsides appear everywhere. Whiteoak is the chief
                                    growth—a few stunted sugartrees along the branches—no large
                                    trees of any size. The soil can't produce them.
                        We got to Grafton about sundown. This is a village in the mountains. Here is a good
                                    brick tavern. And here we tarried for the night and slept well.44
                        
                        
                           
                              40 John J. Crittenden, Senator from 
                                            Kentucky
                                        , 1855-1861. Esrlier 
                                            United States
                                         Senator, Attorney General under Harrison and Tyler, 1841,
                                        Governmetn of 
                                            Kentucky
                                        , and Attorney General under Filmore.
                           
                              41 John C. Breckinridge of 
                                            Kentucky
                                        . Southern Democratic Candidate for the presidency in 1860. Vice
                                        President, 1857-1861. Became a General in the Confederate army.
                           
                              42 William H. Seward of 
                                            New York
                                        . In the Senate from 1849 to 1861, when he became Secretary of State
                                        under Lincoln.
                           
                              43 Samuel 
                                            Houston
                                        , in the public eye since the days of John Quincy Adams. Famous in 
                                            Tennessee
                                         and 
                                            Texas
                                         history.
                           
                              44 Grafton and Clarksburg, present day cities of West 
                                            Virginia
                                         on the 
                                            Baltimore
                                         and 
                                            Ohio
                                        . Slavery had little to do with the condition of these towns in the
                                        fifties, when they were struggling settlements of the 
                                            Virginia
                                         hills.
                        
                        
                        Thursday, Jan. 6, 1869.
                        Took breakfast at 6 A.M. at Grafton. Then took the cars on the Balt. & 
                                        Ohio
                                     for Wheeling distant about 100 miles. The road [wound] among hills and
                                    along creeks & rivulets. Still we have the same eternal prospect of high
                                    hills, narrow dells, great rocks, wretched farms, houses, fences, poor ragged and
                                    rough looking people—now we dash along a hillside—now through
                                    a tunnel. We have a 100 short winding curves but we go safe, and at length burst
                                    through the hills to the Banks of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     about 10 miles below Wheeling—we ran up the bank to near
                                    Wheeling and crossed in a steamboat for which I paid 50 cents,—the last
                                    direct tax I shall ever pay to 
                                        Virginia
                                    .
                        Here I took the cars for 
                              Columbus,
                                            Ohio
                           —a
                                    distance of 137 miles via 
                                        Zanesville
                                    , 78 miles from Wheeling.
                        And now the country begins to change—first high hills and
                                    rocks—then it gets level, and opens into pretty farm lands. Thank God I
                                    am out of mountains, hills and slave territory, and am on free soil. Above 
                                        Zanesville
                                     we come to the Muskingum—a pretty river, and follow it down
                                    to that city, which is no great thing. Thence to 
                                        Columbus
                                     we passed a delightful country. We arrived at 
                                        Columbus
                                     at dark and in the midst of a heavy rain. Therefore I could not see the
                                    city.
                        We went on through darkness and rain to 
                                        Dayton
                                    , at which we arrived at 9 o'clock. There were no cars going
                                    west till morning; so we stopped at the Phillips House for the night. And it being
                                    dark, I could not see 
                                        Dayton
                                    .
                        Friday, Jan. 7, 1859.
                        At six o'clock A.M. we took the cars for home, 108 miles. It was raining;
                                    but as the day dawned it began to snow, and turned suddenly very cold.
                        I got home about noon, and found all well—thankful to 
                                        Providence
                                     for my safe return.
                     
                  
               
                
            [DIARY OF TRIP TO WASHINGTON IN SUMMER OF 1862.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Monday, June 9, 1862.
                        At 1290 P.M. this day, I started for 
                                        Washington
                                    ; I took the route by 
                                        Richmond
                                    , Harrisburgh and 
                                        Baltimore
                                    . I had the company of Mr. Fellows of 
                                        Hartford
                                    , Ct., to Harrisburgh. As usual, I crossed the mountains in the night
                                    and could see nothing. I arrived at 
                                        Washington
                                     about 9 A.M. of Wednesday June 11.
                        The object of my trip is to keep 
                                        Ohio
                                     and Indiana together in the same U.S. Judicial Circuit, so as to secure
                                    in our Federal Courts the services of Judge Swayne.
                        To my surprise I find the Circuit bill on its passage in the House today. But the
                                    House action does not utterly destroy our hope. It is strange that of all our
                                    delegation in Congress, Wright45 and Porterre alone are for the
                                    purpose of my mission hither. But White on my talking 
                              
                                 45 Joseph A. Wright of Indiana. Ex-Governor of the
                                            state and member of the Senate by appointment, February, 1862-January, 1863.
                              
                                 46 Albert G. Porter, McDonald's law-partner
                                            of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . Republican member of the national House, 1859-1863.
                           
                                     to him come over to my side today. I am at No.
                                    109 
                                        Brown
                                    's Hotel. Tis a cold day. And here I am near 
                                        Richmond
                                    , near McClelland's army. And yet I find the people here know
                                    as little of McClelland's doings and views as we know at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .
                        I was on the floor of the House today and was introduced to several members. It is,
                                    as ever, a mob. How anybody can be eloquent here I know not.
                        I called on J. Wright today. Also on Senator Lane47 et ux. He
                                    falls into my views as to the circuit. So far, so good.
                        June 12. 1862. I slept till nearly nine o'clock this morning. After
                                    breakfast, hunted up Porter and Colfax.48 The latter now thinks
                                    he can't get a circuit made for C. B. Smith.49 And he
                                    consents, therefore, on failure of that, to go for my project.
                        I went to the Senate Chamber in the afternoon. Davis50 of Ky.
                                    moved that a resolution pass ordering the Military to deliver up Gen'l S.
                                    B. Buckner51 to the civil authority to be tried for treason.
                                    Davis spoke for and Trumbull52 & Brownings53 of Ill. against the resolution. It lies over.
                        Here, as in every city, the extremes of society are found. Here are the proud whom I
                                    regard not; but here is a poor girl sweeping the sidewalk, and begging a copper from
                                    the passers by. Poor child of want! Where is thy security for bread or virtue? Poor
                                    child, may heaven defend thee! Sad is thy fate, poor girl! Sadder far than thou
                                    imaginest. Pure now, though poor and unfriended, thy purity repays thee for all thy
                                    poverty. But at some future day thy purity will be lost. That will be thy direst
                                    calamity. Poverty thou thinkest is thy greatest affliction—Silly child!
                                    want of chastity will be greater. When that is gone—and gone it will
                                    be—then thy real calamity will come. O God! pity the beggar girl, and
                                    save her from that worst of woes! Dost thou take notice of the sparrow, and wilt
                                    thou not protect this friendless girl?
                        June 13, 1862.
                        It is very warm today and threatens rain. "The rain it raineth every
                                    day". And it is said McClelland can't move on 
                                        Richmond
                                     till dry weather comes. O, may dry weather soon come!54
                        
                        
                           
                              47 Henry S. Lane of 
                                            Crawfordsville
                                        , Indiana. Whig leader and later Republican Elected Governor in
                                        1860, but resigned to go to the 
                                            United States
                                         Senate.
                           
                              48 Schuyler Colfax of 
                                            South Bend
                                        , Indiana. Whig leader and later Republican. Member of national
                                        House from Indiana, 1865-1869. Vice President, 1869-1878.
                           
                              49 Caleb B. Smith of Indiana. Whig leader and later
                                        Republican. Secretary of the Interior under Lincoln until appointed judge for
                                        the federal district of Indiana in January, 1863. Died in January, 1864.
                           
                              50 Garrett Davis of 
                                 Kentucky. United
                                        States
                               Senator, 1861-1872.
                           
                              51 General Simon Boliver Buckner, Confederate soldier of 
                                            Kentucky
                                        . Long after the War, on the ticket of the Gold Democrats with
                                        General John M. Palmer of 
                                            Illinois
                                        . This Palmer and Buckner ticket was called the "Blue and
                                        Gray" ticket.
                           
                              52 Lyman Trumbull of 
                                            Illinois
                                        . Democratic leader and later Republican Senator. Became a Radical
                                        during the Civil War.
                           
                              53 Orville H. Browning of 
                                            Illinois
                                        . Republican member of 
                                            United States
                                         Senate. 1861-1862, by appointment. A little later he became a law
                                        partner of Thomas Ewing and others in Washinrrton.
                           
                              54 General George B. McClellan was at this time in the
                                        midst of the famous Peninalar Campaign.
                        
                        
                        About 9 A.M. I strolled to the Capitol, and spent three hours inspecting its
                                    magnificences. How unfortunate that this spot was fixed as the seat of government.
                                    These immense buildings—the Capitol, the post office, the patent office,
                                    the Treasury house, the Smithsonian Institute, the White House, would worth
                                    something, and would remain, situate at 
                              Columbus, Indianapolis
                            or 
                                        Chicago
                                    . But what are they worth here on the Algerine [Confederate] border? How
                                    long will they last here?
                        It is strange how little is known of the war news here. All the means of information
                                    here are not half equal to what I daily read in the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Gazette at home. It is known indeed the McClelland's army is
                                    near 
                                        Richmond
                                    ; but when will he get there—how many men he
                                    has—what is the number of the enemy—when, if ever, the fight
                                    will be—what are the grounds of hope for success—these nobody
                                    knows.
                        I spent some time in the Senate lobby today. The point in debate was whether a bill
                                    should pass requiring all U.S. officers to swear themselves clear of treason, past,
                                    present and future. 
                                        Salisbury
                                    
                           55 of N.J. and Davis of Ky. opposed the bill on
                                    constitutional grounds. I suppose 
                                        Salisbury
                                     (or Saulsbury) is a traitor and Davis a vain weak man, neither of them
                                    learned in the constitution. 
                                        Salisbury
                                     quoted an 
                                        Alabama
                                     decision to support his view! Trumbull of 
                                        Illinois
                                     answered, and instead of cursing 
                                        Alabama
                                     and her decisions, he cited a case from N.Y. in his favor. Trumbull
                                    does not strike me as either a great orator or a great statesman. His colleague,
                                    Browning, talked of for Supreme Judge of the U.S. may be good and
                                    great:—he don't look so.
                        I got a peep at Sumner56 this afternoon. He seems unfashionable,
                                    dressed in loose gray clothes—seems at ease, at home—looks
                                    solid—complexion rather dark—features
                                    prominent—irregular. He is the great man of the Senate. He is not old
                                    yet, not over 50, few gray hairs. His voice seems deep and guttural. But I am too
                                    far off to scan him well.
                        Saturday, June 14, 1862.
                        This morning I fell in with Henry S. Lane and Bob Cravens.57 We
                                    went to the Whitehouse. Old Abe was abroad. We sauntered a while in the flower
                                    garden, and, on returning to the house, found that "(Abe" had just
                                    returned from a ride on horseback. He was standing at the door holding his horse. We
                                    spoke to him. He received us with no ostentation, and, so far as I could see, with
                                    no cordiality. He had seen me on the bench in Indiana. True—but what of
                                    that? He asked us into the house where we sat with him about two minutes, and
                                    withdrew.
                        I think no one can doubt that the President has an honest and benevolent face and
                                    heart. There is too, a fair degree of manliness in his personal [bearing]. His
                                    exterior, however, is rough and ungainly. And one can not but feel that he lacks
                                    polish, and is destitute of a refined taste and all sorts of book learning. Has he
                                    sound judgment? Does he combine honesty of purpose with wisdom of discrimination?
                                    How does it 
                              
                                 55 Willard Saulsbury of 
                                                Delaware
                                             (not of 
                                                New Jersey
                                            ). Senator from that State, 1859-1871.
                              
                                 56 Charles Sumner, Senator from 
                                                Massachusetts
                                            . Noted anti-slavery leader. Radical during period of the Civil
                                            War and Reconstruction.
                              
                                 57 John Robert Cravens of 
                                                Madison
                                            , Indiana. Railroad man, editor and anti-slavery leader.
                           
                                     happen that in every instance of important
                                    appointments in Indiana, he has made a very bad choice? C. B. Smith in his
                                    Cabinet—a political mountebank, a moral bankrupt, John P. Usher,58 a heartless knave, an arrant coward—District Atty
                                    John Hanna,59 alike destitute of legal learning and intellectual
                                    strength. A. L. Robinson,60 a reformed drunkard and a mere
                                    brute. Marshall Rose,61 a bankrupt, a drunkard. How is this, O
                                    Abe? if thou art as wise as thou art unquestionably good?
                        We called, also, on Wells [Welles], Secretary of the Navy.62 In
                                    him, we found an old man sitting at a table surrounded with documents—his
                                    hair and beard very long and very white—a couple of little bright eyes
                                    peeping out through a whole forest of hair. I could form no idea of his features,
                                    for I saw them not; they lay concealed in darkness behind a capillary screen. He did
                                    not rise up. He reached out his hand to us and said, "how d'ye
                                    do" and it was all over, and we evacuated the fort. What sort of man he is,
                                    I know not. He did not say enough to enable me to form an idea of his intellect, and
                                    through his hairy covering, he was so "dimly seen" that I could
                                    not scan him either phrenologically or physiog-nomically. But it was plain enough
                                    there was no manliness—nothing whole souled there.
                        We also called on Blair,63 the Post Master General. He is a
                                    young, spare-built, fair complexioned man. A glance at him would convince any
                                    divining man that there is nothing in him. He is a mere upstart, and of a bad breed,
                                    too. It was his father64 that turned ingrate and enemy to Henry
                                    Clay. How "Old Abe" took a fancy for this man, I know not. I would
                                    as soon chose Vonnegut of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for P.M.G. (whom he resembles) as this little thing.
                        This evening I called on Senator Harlan65 of 
                                        Iowa
                                    . How foolish is this fashionable life here. Though an old acquaintance,
                                    I had first to send up my card. Then I got for answer that he would see me in the
                                    parlor in 15 minutes—then I waited for him and there met him, and after
                                    all I found him no great thing—A dull, heavy fellow I think him to be.
                                    Damn such Senators—He has no vivacity, no soul in him.
                        The House does not sit today. I spent a little while in the Senate. Then the heat
                                    became oppressive, I went to my room and staid there. At night, it rained again. So
                                    "the rain it raineth every day." And should 
                              
                                 58 John P. Usher of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            . Indiana. Appointed Assistant Secretary of the Interior in
                                            1862. Succeeded Caleb B. Smith to the headship of the Department in January,
                                            1863.
                              
                                 59 John Hanna of Indiana. Lived in 
                                                Kansas
                                             Territory for a time. Member of the territorial Legislature,
                                            1867-1858. Returned to Indiana. Appointed 
                                                United States
                                             Attorney for the judicial district of Indiana by Lincoln in
                                            1861. Served until 1869. ReDublican member of national House, 1877-1879.
                              
                                 60 Andrew L. Robinson of 
                                                Evansville
                                            , Indiana. A soldier in the Mexican War. Candidate for Governor
                                            on the Free Soil ticket in 1852.
                              
                                 61 David S. Rose of LaPorte, Indiana, was appointed
                                            Marshal for the 
                                                United States
                                             district court for Indiana by President Lincoln.
                              
                                 62 Gideon Welles of 
                                                Connecticut
                                            . Secretary of the Navy under Lincoln and Johnson.
                              
                                 63
                                            
                                                Montgomery
                                             Blair of 
                                                Maryland
                                            . Son of Francis P. Blair and brother of Francia (Frank) P.
                                            Blair of 
                                                Missouri
                                            .
                              
                                 64 The elder Francis P. Blair was a 
                                                Kentucky
                                             editor. He and 
                                                Clay
                                             were friends but became estranged after 1825. In December,
                                            1830, Blair went to 
                                                Washington
                                             to become editor of The Globe, a new Jackson organ founded to
                                            uphold the President and his policies.
                              
                                 65 James Harlan, 
                                                United States
                                             Senator from 
                                                Iowa
                                            , 1857-1866. Secretary of the Interior under Johnson 1865-1566.
                                            Again 
                                                United States
                                             Senator, 1867-1873.
                           
                                     it so continue, when will McClelland move on 
                                        Richmond
                                    ? All he laeka is dry weather. May it come! I see that today's
                                    Tribune (N.Y.) says that McClelland's army is the finest army ever
                                    collected in America, and that he has the best artillery force that any army in the
                                    world ever had. I suppose he has from 160,000 to 200,000 men. If so, surely he will
                                    soon take 
                                        Richmond
                                    .
                        Sunday, June 15,1862.
                        Tis very warm this morning. I staid in my room till 10:30 A.M. when Mr. Porter called
                                    on me to go with him to the House of representatives to hear Doctor Stockton of the
                                    Radical Methodists preach. I would much rather go to the Unitarian Church. But I
                                    consent to go with Porter.
                        And here we are. The hall of the House is pretty well filled. At the clerk's
                                    desk sits the preacher—A frail, slender, old man with a white beard and
                                    hair. He don't look very intellectual. His text is "Charity
                                    suffereth long and is kind". He sat in his chair and preached—It
                                    was good and great. The man himself was the very picture of the charity his text
                                    extolled, He was graceful, logical, classical, eloquent. Considering his elegant and
                                    impressive manner of treating his subject, and the excellent spirit so conspicuous
                                    in the man, I think I never heard a finer sermon. No feeling person can hear him and
                                    not love and revere him. He re-minded me of the ideal I had formed of John Wesley,
                                    and of the pictures of him which I have seen. What a treat is this! Such a sermon
                                    has life in it. It makes me better. How different from the blather I hear at home,
                                    which really makes me worse.
                        Learning that 200 or more of our wounded soldiers had just arrived here from 
                                        Virginia
                                    , Messrs. Colfax, Porter, Lockhart66 &
                                    myself took a hack this evening and went to see some of them. Some of them we
                                    learned were Indianians. They were at the hospital some 2 miles N.W. from the city.
                                    The country through which we passed, seemed to have been one great camp. I suppose
                                    part of McClelland's army camped here last winter. Indeed many soldiers
                                    were here yet. Many sick-some union, some traitors, were here also. We found that
                                    the wounded were mostly 
                                        Ohio
                                     men—a few were Pennsylvanians and a few from Indiana. One
                                    man had an arm off—one was shot through the face, or rather the head,
                                    under or behind the top of the nose. Some had be shot through the breast, some in
                                    the arms and hands, but the greater portion were wounded in the thighs, legs and
                                    feet. No one appeared to be dangerously wounded. Some were suffering a great deal;
                                    but most of them seemed very cheerful. The sight was not near so bad as I expected.
                                    I found no one whom I knew. I spoke to most of them.
                        On our return we saw a large number of soldiers collected under some oaks; and found
                                    that a lady, who sang well, was singing the "Star Spangled
                                    Banner." The crowd joined in the chorus. It was very fine, and even grand.
                        I should state that we found the "Sisters of Charity" attending the
                                    wounded, who were disposed in long cabins—on couches arranged on 
                              
                                 66 No data discovered in regard to any Lockhart who
                                            could have been in 
                                                Washington
                                             in 1862.
                           
                                     either side so as to leave a pass way in the
                                    middle.
                        The "Sisters" seemed very attentive and affectionate to the
                                    sufferers. God bless these "Sisters."
                        At night I went to the Unitarian Church. Mr. Channing, nephew of Dr. Channing
                                        preached.67 The mode of worship I did not like. He read a
                                    prayer partly from the Episcopal prayer book. Most of the time was taken up with
                                    alternate readings from the Bible and singing by the choir and playing on the organ.
                                    They call it vespers. One song if song it was, was sung by one man alone, All I
                                    could hear of the words was "Must I leave my native soil" repeated
                                    ten times or more. The whole matter of the music was to me execrable.
                        Mr. Channing gave a sensible sermon from "Fervent in spirit, serving the
                                    Lord." His delivery however, is poor "and his speech
                                    contemptible." He lives at 505, 12th St. next to E in 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        Monday, June 15, 1862. This is a cool day I spent it mostly looking around the city.
                        I have done now all I can do for our Judicial Circuit. I think the scheme will
                                    succeed, but time and the Senate must tell.
                        From all that I can hear, I fear for the result at 
                                        Richmond
                                    . McClelland's great army is now within four miles of that
                                    city; but it is said the enemy is much stronger in numbers than he. I hope
                                    McClelland will beat him; but, considering how much depends on the result of the
                                    battle now imminent, the least doubt about the matter is very painful. May God
                                    prosper the better cause!
                        Tuesday June 17, 1862. This forenoon I was at the Capitol looking on at the doings of
                                    Congress. Tonight at 5 o'clock I start for home.
                        I arrived at Balt. about 7 and waited there till 9 P.M. for the Harris-burgh train. I
                                    got my supper near the depot at a poor Dutch tavern. So much disorder I never saw at
                                    a depot in Indiana as I witnessed at this depot in Balt. I was glad at 9
                                    o'clock to get into a sleeping car far Harrisburgh.
                        At Harrisburgh, I arrived about day break on Wednesday, June 18th. I passed the
                                    mountains in the forenoon, and arriving at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     about one o'clock I took the cars for Crestline, where I
                                    arrived about 9 o'clock P.M. Here I took the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and Bellefontaine train—lay in a sleeping car all night and
                                    reached home about 6 o'clock A.M. of Thursday, June 19, 1862.
                     
                  
               
                
            [DIARY OF THE FIRST TRIP OF 18641
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Monday, Sept. 5, 1864. Learning as I have this morning that Honorable A. s. White,66 the Judge of the District of Indiana is dead, I determined at
                                    once to go to 
                                        Washington
                                     and seek to be successor to him. Accordingly, on 3 hours preparation,
                                    after gathering up such recommendations as I could procure in so short a time, I
                                    started about 1 o'clock P.M.
                        
                           
                              67 William Henry Channing, nephew of the elder William
                                        Ellery Channing. Pastor of the Unitarian Socity in 
                                            Washington
                                         when McDonald heard him preach.
                           
                              68 Albert S. White of Indiana. Whig member of national
                                        House, 1837-1839. 
                                            United States
                                         Senator, 1839-1845. Federal district judge, January 18 to September
                                        4, 1864.
                        
                        
                        My ticket to 
                                        Washington
                                     cost me $20.26. I unwisely took the Central Indiana route. I
                                    got to 
                                        Columbus
                                        Ohio
                                     at midnight. Went to bed supperless, and slept little, paying half a
                                    dollar for a hard bed three hours.
                        At 4 A.M. of Tuesday, I resumed my journey, paid 75 cts for breakfast and dinner
                                    each, and passing through Steubenville and 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     to Harrisburgh where I arrived about 3 o'clock A.M. of the
                                    7th—too late for the cars to 
                                        Baltimore
                                    . I could find no bed in the capital of 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    ; so I lounged and snoozed about the Depot till 7 in the morning. Then
                                    [Wed.] I took the cars for 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , where I arrived about 11 A.M. Waited at 
                                        Baltimore
                                     for 
                                        Washington
                                    , and got there about 5 o'clock, weary and worn—too
                                    late to see any one I knew.
                        Thursday, Sept. 8, 1864. The first thing this morning was to hunt up C. M. Walker. I
                                    found him at the Treasury at 9 o'clock. We planned that he should collect
                                    certain old recommendations of me for U.S. Dist. Judge already on file in the office
                                    of the Atty. General—make an abstract of them and all the others I had on
                                    hand—and then at 12 M. find the President, and lay siege to his sacred
                                    person. After all the red tape round, of first sending an order in writing to Att.
                                    Gen'l Bates,69 and then going in propria persona, and
                                    receipting for all these documents by name and number, I got them into my
                                    possession. But—the President—the President—was too
                                    busy to be seen today. We must wait for that until tomorrow at 9 o'c. A.M.
                        The rest of the day I spent wandering about the city and making
                                    observations—[for] which there is much material.
                        The first thing that strikes one is the multitude of men in military
                                    uniform—Officers of all grades—Soldiers of all
                                    sorts—men maimed in all sorts of ways—Here is a man with only
                                    one leg; there a man with an arm off. Yonder is a man limping on crutches; and
                                    yonder another with a nose off or slit lip, or a countenance otherwise marred.
                        Another remarkable thing is that 
                                        Washington
                                     situate on the very seat of war, should at the end of three years
                                    fighting seem so pecuniarily prosperous, yet so it is—money
                                    abundant—trade prosperous—everybody getting rich.
                        Friday, 9 Sept. 1864.
                        At 9 o'clock this morning I and C. M. Walker went to see the President. We
                                    waited in the ante room till about eleven; and were at last invited by the private
                                    Sec'y Mr. Nicholi [John G. Nicolay], into the "presence
                                    chamber." Lincoln was not in; but entered shortly, and seemed to receive me
                                    very cordially. We had met before. He recognized me and began to talk of old times
                                    in Indiana when he was a boy living in Perry county &c, &c. He said
                                    he came to that county in 1816, seven years old.
                        Finally I mentioned my business, made him a poor stump speech, and told him all I
                                    could. He heard me patiently, and I think encouraged me to expect success. But he
                                    told me that, as several had telegraphed him not to make a sudden appointment, he
                                    would have to delay until he heard 
                              
                                 69 Edward Bates of 
                                                Missouri
                                            . Member of the national House, 1827-1829. Attorney-General
                                            under Lincoln, 1861-1864. Charles M. Walker, a journalist of Indiana, Fifth
                                            Auditor of U. S. Treasury, 1862-1869.
                           
                                     from all applicants. I told him that was
                                    right—and so it ended. On leaving he thanked me for the call, seemed to
                                    feel cordial towards me.
                        In this interview, my notion of the President's abilities was somewhat
                                    raised. Certainly he is very far from being a fool. On political topics, he talked
                                    very shrewdly. And after all, he seems not so much of a granny as some of his
                                    friends esteem him.
                        Having now done all I could for the object on which I came here, I now prepare to
                                    make my journey home.
                        At 3 P.M. [Friday, Sept. 91 was on the cars for 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , 36 miles, where I arrived at 6. Staid there till 9, and then started
                                    for Harrisburgh, about 90 miles, where I arrived about 3 o'clock A.M. of
                                    the 10th. Thence took the road to 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     249 miles. Got to that city between 12 & 1 o'clock
                                    P.M. [Saturday]. I started for Crestline 189 miles. Got to Crestline at 10 P.M.
                                    Thence took the Bellfontaine cars for home and arrived safe at home about 10
                                    o'clock A.M. of Sunday, Sept. 11, 1864.
                     
                  
               
                
            [DIARY OF THE SECOND JOURNEY OF 18641
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dec. 1, 1864.
                        At 8:20 P.M. I left home for the city of 
                                        Washington
                                    . I took a sleeping car on the Bellefontaine road, and rested well
                                    enough all night. My ticket to 
                                        Baltimore
                                     was $20.40. I was accompanied by T. A. Hendricks.70 I found also Alfred Harrison71 and J. D.
                                        Howland72 on the train their object being to get the latter
                                    appointed to the office of Judge for the Indiana District. I go to seek it for
                                    myself. I see no certainty how-ever, as to what happy man will get it.
                        At breakfast time, Friday, Dec. 2, I found myself at Crestline and breakfasted there.
                                    Thence we rolled for 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     which we reached about 4 P.M.
                        Now for the mountains. Up them and over them we roll. It is as dark as 
                                        Egypt
                                    , and we run more than 20 miles an hour; but the wheels seem
                                    instinctively to hold the right course, not varying an inch, now rushing through
                                    gorges of the mountains—now dashing through tunnels—now
                                    hanging on and winding around the edges of precipices—now dashing down
                                    the mountain side like an avalanche. But all goes safe; and at last at 4 A.M. we
                                    find ourselves safe at Harrisburgh—too late for the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     cars.
                        At 7 A.M. [Saturday, Dec. 31 we left Harrisburgh for 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , and reached the latter place at 12:30 P.M.
                        At 
                                        Baltimore
                                     I dined and at 3:30 started for 
                                        Washington
                                     where I arrived at dark, and stopped at the
                                    "National".
                        
                           
                              70 Thomas A. Hendricks of Indiana. Democratic member of
                                        national House, 1851-1866. 
                                            United States
                                         Senator, 1863-1869. Governor of Indiana 1873-1877. Vice President,
                                        March 4, 1885, to his death in November, 1885.
                           
                              71 Alfred Harrison, an attorney and politician of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        . Went to 
                                            Washington
                                         in the interest of hie friend Howland.
                           
                              72 John D. Howland served for many years as clerk of the
                                        federal district court of Indiana. In 1864 desired to become judge of the
                                        district court.
                        
                        
                        On this trip to 
                                        Washington
                                    , I fell in with Mr. Washburn73 a M.C. from Galena 
                                        Ills
                                    . A fine looking jolly fellow he is and a good Union man; bat I should
                                    think, not a very learned or great man.
                        
                           On the trip to 
                                            Washington
                                        , I spent
                           
                              R.R. to Balt.
                              $20.40
                           
                           
                              Breakfast at Crestline
                              .75
                           
                           
                              For a pie
                              .10
                           
                           
                              Supper at Altoona
                              .75
                           
                           
                              Dinner at 
                                                Baltimore
                                            
                              
                              1.60
                           
                           
                              Coffee at Harrisburgh
                              .37
                           
                           
                              R.R. from Balt. To 
                                                Washington
                                            
                              
                              1.50
                           
                           
                              
                              $25.37
                           
                        
                        Sun. Dec. 4, 1864.
                        Here I am at 
                                        Washington
                                    . And here at the "National" I find Henry S. Lane. He
                                    says he has recommended several of us to the President for this judgeship and now
                                    having done his whole duty, he says he leaves it with the President to do his!!!
                        I called on G. S. Orth74 today. He says he has to go for his
                                    Judge Huff; but I am his second choice.
                        I went to the Unitarian Church today. Mr. Channing preached a very good sermon. He
                                    was severe on slavery, strong for the Union, spiritual, holy. O that I could often
                                    hear such preaching. I love the man and his doctrine.
                        Mon. Dec. 5.
                        I find that Jas. Speed75 of 
                                        Louisville
                                     is the new atty. general. Glad of it. I called on him. He is decidedly
                                    for me for the judgeship. He is a host.
                        No quorum in the Sup. Court today. The Court of Claims sits; but Judge Hughes76 is not here. I am sorry for it.
                        Congress meets today. I was in the Senate Chamber a little while. Nothing of interest
                                    there.
                        The vastness of the Capitol and other public buildings gives me an idea of the
                                    vastness of our country and its prosperity, till of late, now when war is raging, I
                                    had no idea this was so great a nation. No nation in Europe could have sustained
                                    what we have sustained in the last four years with equal success. It is incredible
                                    that in such a war, all the free states should have had such
                                    prosperity—yet we have it—greater than was every known before.
                                    But what will the end of all this be?
                        Tues. Dec. 6, 1864.
                        I went to the Sup. Court room today. The Judges met, announced 
                              
                                 73 Elihu Benjamin Washburn of 
                                                Illinois
                                            . Member of national House from 1868-1869, firat aa a Whig and
                                            later as a Republican. Minister to 
                                                France
                                            , 1869-1877.
                              
                                 74 Godlove S. Orth of 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana. Republican member of national House 1868-1871,
                                            18784876. and 1879-1882. Minister to 
                                                Austria
                                            -
                                                Hungary
                                            , 1876-1876.
                              
                                 75 James Swed of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . Prominent lawyer and jurist. Strong Union man during the Civil
                                            War. Appointed Attorney General by his long-time friend Lincoln. Served from
                                            1864 to 1866.
                              
                                 76 See footnote 31, above.
                           
                                     the death of Chief Justice Taney and adjourned.
                        Then there was a Bar Meeting. Mr. Meredith77 of 
                                        Baltimore
                                     was called to the chair. A committee on resolutions on the death of
                                    Taney was appointed. And then I left the room. I looked in at the Court of Claims,
                                    and then went to the Senate Chamber, where the President's Message was
                                    read.
                        At 2:30 Hendricks and I went to see the President, waited there till sun down but did
                                    not see him.
                        Things look better today. I think I shall get the Judgeship. How-land is the only
                                    opponent I fear, and he seems much discouraged. Alfred Harrison has gone home, I
                                    suspect, in despair. Howland, himself can do nothing. And I hope success. Still I
                                    must not be over-confident.
                        Today Mr. Chase78 was nominated and confirmed as Chief Justice of
                                    the 
                                        United States
                                    .
                        At about 8 o'clock P.M. Senator Hendricks and I went to the
                                    President's House. After waiting a long time, Hendricks was called in. He
                                    had a long talk with the President about me. Then I was called in. The President
                                    said he had thought of making me judge in McLean's place. This he said was
                                    at the request of Bishop Simpson.79 Afterwards he said he
                                    thought seriously of me when he appointed Smith, and so also when he appointed
                                    White. He said he cared nothing about recommendations. He said, in fine, everything
                                    from which I might infer that he would appoint me without promising it directly. I
                                    feel sure he will do it. Yet the doubt and the uncertainty are painful.
                        Wedn. Dec. 7, 1864. Slept till nearly 9 this morning.
                        At 12M. I went to the Sup. Court room. It was full of lawyers. Presently somebody
                                    announced "The Supreme Judges." Then all rose and stood till the
                                    Judges took their seats: Whereupon old Tom Ewing80 rose and
                                    addressed the Court. I could not hear a word he said. Some paper was then read about
                                    the death of Chief Justice Taney. To this, Mr. Justice Wayne, the senior Judge, read
                                    a long response-not one word of which I could hear. Then the Court arose.
                        This veneration of the name of Taney I do not approve. That he was a man of talents
                                    and a learned lawyer is true. But he got his office by being the tool of
                                    Gen'l Jackson and removing the deposits from the U.S. Bank. And by
                                    pronouncing the Dred Scott Decision he caused the present rebellion. Praise him who
                                    will. I say the Dred Scott decision ought to stain him indelibly, and cause infamy
                                    to roll its burning fires over his memory forever and ever.81
                        
                        
                           
                              77 Meredith, an attorney of 
                                            Baltimore
                                         who practised before the Supreme Court.
                           
                              78 Salmon P. Chase of 
                                 Ohio. United
                                        States
                               Senator, 1849-1865. Governor of 
                                            Ohio
                                        , 1855-1859. Secretary of the Treasury under Lincoln, 1861-1864.
                           
                              79 Bishop Matthew Simpson of the Methodist Church.
                                        President of DePauw University, 1839-1848. Born 1811, died, 1884.
                           
                              80 Thomas Ewing of 
                                            Ohio
                                        , Whig 
                                            United States
                                         Senator, 1831-1837, and by appointment 1850-1851. Secretary of the
                                        Treasury under Lincoln, under Harrison and Tyler, 1841, and Secretart of the
                                        Interior under Taylor, 1849-1850.
                           
                              81 Such severe indictments of Taney were common in that
                                        period. See note 3, above.
                        
                        
                        At night, in company with Dan Mace,82 I went to see Colchester, a
                                    spiritualist. There was a company of about 20. We sat in a circle with hands joined.
                                    A table in the centre piled with drum, fiddle, bell &c. Colchester sat with
                                    us. All hands were joined—one of his to Mace, the other to a lady. Then
                                    the light out. The drum beat—the fiddle played—the bells rang.
                                    All these flew around the room—phosphorus had been put on them so that we
                                    could see them flying. Colchester's coat Was pulled off, thrown across the
                                    room, then put on him—all the while he was held by the hand so as to seem
                                    to render such a feat impossible. These things were oft repeated, Then each of us
                                    paid him a dollar and went home.
                        Thurs. Dec. 8, 1864.
                        I spent this day loitering about the Capitol and in the Supreme Court. Only 6 of the
                                    10 Judges are present. Swayne83 looks more like a live man than
                                    any of the rest. And I think he is the best lawyer of the crowd.
                        I am glad to find that Judge Jas. Hughes has arrived. I saw him this evening. He goes
                                    for me. He is to see the President as soon as possible. He says that both Usher and
                                        Defrees84 admit that my appointment is inevitable.
                        How strange that Hughes, who in former years was a long time my bitterest enemy,
                                    should be my warmest friend! "The world changes and we change with
                                    it."
                        Friday, Dec. 9, 1864.
                        I have stayed in my room nearly all day. I have nothing more that I can do here that
                                    I see. And yet I incline not to go home till I see the end.
                        Hughes failed to get to see the President yesterday. He says that he will see him
                                    this day. Yet at this hour, 8 P.M., I hear nothing from him. "Uncle
                                    Abe" is hard to see.
                        Sat. Dec. 10.
                        I have spent about the whole day in my room. It is a gloomy day.
                        A snow fell last night. It is bad going out.
                        I have not heard whether Hughes has seen the President.
                        Sun. Dec. 11, 1864.
                        This morning I hunted for a Methodist class meeting, but found none.
                        At 11 o'clock, I went to the Unitarian Church, and heard Mr. Channing preach
                                    a great discourse. I have been deceived as to him. When I heard him a few years ago,
                                    I did not admire him. Now I see he is one of the great men of this country. His
                                    sermons make me better.
                        
                           
                              82 Daniel Mace of 
                                            Lafayette
                                        , Indiana, Democratic member of national House, 1851-1855.
                                        Republican (People's Party) member, 1855-1857.
                           
                              83 Noah Haynes Swayne of 
                                            Ohio
                                        . Appointed associate justice in 1862 by Lincoin. Born in 1804.
                           
                              84 John D. Defrees of Indiana. Republican of much
                                        influence. For a number of years the editor of the leading Republican newspaper
                                        of the state, the Indiana Journal. Later editor of The Atlas. In 1864,
                                        Superintendent of Government printting in 
                                            Washington
                                        .
                        
                        
                        Mon. Dec. 12, 1864.
                        I went to the Capitol this morning. There I met Judge Wright85
                                    and Dan Mace. They hinted to me that I would be appointed Judge that day. Then Henry
                                    S. Lane came to me looking wise. He spoke thus. "The President sent for me
                                    this morning. I went. He asked me if there any good reason why McDonald should not
                                    be appointed Judge? I ahwered, none in the world. Then, said the President, I will
                                    appoint him."
                        After the Senate met, I found the President had, sure enough, sent in my name. Then
                                    with my heart full of joy and thankfulness to God I hasted to my room at the Hotel
                                    and, on my knees, adored the Good God, who had thus consumated my highest worldly
                                    desire.
                        The next thing was to go home, whither I started at 4 P.M. I ate supper at 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , and took the Harrisburgh train at 9:46 P.M. in company with Mr.
                                    Howland and Mr. Mace. A little after midnight, we were in Harrisburgh.
                        Tues. Dec. 13, 1864. I pursued my journey towards 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    . I breakfasted at Altoona about 7 o'clock A.M. and arrived at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     about 1 o'clock P.M.
                        Left 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     for Crestline at 2 P.M. on the 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , Fort 
                                        Wayne
                                     and 
                                        Chicago
                                     cars.
                        When about forty miles east of Crestline, at about 10 o'clock P.M. and while
                                    we were running very fast, I being in the lady's car and the sleeping car
                                    only being behind our, I felt our car go hop, thump, jump. I knew it was off the
                                    track and I instinctively cried, "God have mercy on me". In a
                                    moment the car tumbled down an embankment, rolling on its side so as nearly to turn
                                    bottom uppermost. The people came tumbling to the lower part, and seats and carpet
                                    sacks came tumbling on us. Wat I most dreaded was that the sleeping car would come
                                    next and crush us. Then arose the shrieks of women and children and the cries of
                                    men. It was the awfullest moment I ever experienced. But a moment only. For when I
                                    found that the sleeping car was not on us, and that I was not hurt, I could not but
                                    cry out, "Thank God, we are safe!" But the uproar was immense. Men
                                    broke the windows on the upper side and many of them escaped through them. I got out
                                    at one of the doors, and at the first step I was knee deep in water. I found that we
                                    were on the edge of a creek which was said to be ten feet deep. I clambered up the
                                    bank on the Railroad track, and was safe;—not the slighest injury could I
                                    see or feel, except that my new $13 hat was "mashed into a
                                    cocked hat". But there we were standing on the road track in the snow, the
                                    night cold, I wet up to my knees—some 60 people of us old and
                                    young—our train gone out of sigh—even the speed we had been
                                    running had carried the sleeping car out of sight. But I was joyful, nearly as
                                    thankful as yesterday when I learned that "Uncle Abraham" had made
                                    me a U.S. Judge.
                        
                           
                              85 The "Judge" Wright mentioned was
                                        probably Joseph A. Wright of Indiana. It is hard to say why he waa called
                                        "Judge" by McDonald as he seems never to have served aa judge
                                        of any court. He could have been in 
                                            Washington
                                         in December, 1864, as this was in the interval between his service
                                        aa Commissioner to the Hamburg Exhibition of 1865 and his appointment as
                                        Minister to Prussia in 1866.
                        
                        
                        By and by, the train, having missed us, came back, took us aboard the other cars, and
                                    we rolled on arriving at Crestline about 2 o'clock A.M.
                        Wed. Dec. 14.
                        Went into a sleeping car at Crestline on the Bellefontaine and 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     road about 2 o'clock A.M. Slept soundly, and in the morning
                                    found myslf at Union, where I got breakfast. Then we rolled on for 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , where we arrived at 12 M. Found all well. For my success at 
                                        Washington
                                    , and my escape on the railroad, I felt most thankful to God.
                        On my arrival, everyone congratulated me on my appointment. It was, I reckon, the
                                    happiest day in my life. I was free from the toil and vexations of the
                                    Bar,—I had a good honorable office for life, with a salary sufficient to
                                    insure me a competency—little labor to perform-much elegant leisure in
                                    the future—and in the Autumn of my life many sunny days in anticipation.
                        Glory to God in the highest.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            Volume X, Number 4, of the Indiana Historical Society Publications was issued in
                    November under the title of "Un-edited Letters of Jonathan Jennings." Dorothy
                    Riker of the Historical Bureau contributed a brief chronology, a genealogy, calendar, and notes.
                    These make a substantial supplement to thewfficial and semi-official Messages and Letters of
                    Jennings edited by Logan Esarey for Volume III of the Governors Messages and
                    Letters of the Indiana Historical Collections, published by the Indiana
                    Historical Commission in 1924. Ninety-nine letters and other documents emanating from the first
                    governor of the State of Indiana are included. A notice of this publication will appear on other
                    pages of this Magazine.
            
            The William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society has recently obtained a
                    miscellaneous collection of early Indiana papers coming from William H. English through Captain
                    William E. English and Mrs. William E. English Prince. Frank J. Prince, executor of Mrs.
                    Prince's will, placed with the Society historical material, relating. mostly to the English
                    family, left by Mrs. Prince's will to be given to such an organization. The Smith Library
                    has also acquired from Mrs. Charles S. Medbury of Des Moines, 
                        Iowa
                    , a complete set of the "Millennial Harbinger," edited by Alexander 
                        Campbell
                     at Bethany, West 
                        Virginia
                    . This periodical contains a vast amount of information about religious conditions and
                    movements in Indiana between 1827 and 1870. This material, however, will not be available for use
                    until the Smith Library is established in the new Library and Historical Building.
            A challenge comes out of the "Depression" to those interested in history. Now that
                    the political campaign of 1932 is past, it can be seen that a fundamental factor in our depressed
                    condition is the disparity between our progress in mechanical and scientific achievements and our
                    progress in social control. Science has prolonged human life and exploited new elements and forces;
                    machinery has multiplied production, and man's power and possessions have correspondingly
                    increased. So little progress, however, has been made in the organization of  human relationship, in what is technically called social sciences and
                    is popularly known as wisdom, that we have at last tangled ourselves up in a snarl from which there
                    is no ready release. The ultimate responsibility rests upon the failure of our civilization to
                    develop through history, economics, and other social sciences an enlightened control of conduct and
                    of natural forces. It is opportune, therefore, in the circle of historians to inquire into the
                    status of history in the general debacle.
            In the last two generations history has become one of the major subjects in education. It has also
                    enlisted the services of a great many writers outside of academic circles. National, state, and
                    local organizations have been formed by those supposedly devoting more or less of their time to its
                    cultivation. It must be confessed, however, that the results have not as yet been commensurate with
                    those attained in the realm of machinery and natural science. Certain errors of statement have been
                    corrected; certain gaps have been filled; and certain individuals and movements have been
                    illuminated by detailed research. That our understanding of the past has been either greatly
                    increased or greatly deepened, however, cannot be asserted. The contribution which has been made to
                    enlightened leadership is not very apparent. The impression one gets from a survey of the field is
                    that most of the historical work being done consists in communicating to the young in imperfect form
                    the accumulation of ideas and facts handed down from the last generation. The comparatively few
                    historians who make significant additions to our knowledge of the past work in detachment and pit
                    the surface here and there but make no organized constructive attack upon the task of explaining the
                    present or guiding the future by an understanding of the past.
            Historical societies ought to do better than this. They should serve as clearing houses in which
                    duplication of work is avoided and stimulation of effort upon intelligently coordinated and
                    constructive studies is afforded. High school, college, and university faculties ought to take
                    advantage of such societies, not only as a means of broadening their field of instruction, but also
                    as a means of specializing historical work, each in its own institution, so far as it can wisely be
                    done, to the end that each may lead out into undeveloped and distinctive fields of study in which
                    significant results may be hoped for.
            Hereditary patriotic organizations might easily contribute  to
                    the same result. In the present crisis and in the present state of historical science, there is no
                    excuse for those who are organized as descendants or participants in great movements of the past,
                    using such organizations as a means of social pleasure or preferment or as a mere gratification of
                    pride of ances-tory. They ought to line up with others in doing historical work connected with the
                    movements in the light of which they bask. The study of immigration into America, of the
                    significance of the American Revolution, and of similar movements, would be the means of important
                    contributions to an understanding of American institutions and the development of effective agencies
                    for improvement. The many societies organized on an hereditary basis which have come into existence
                    might easily coordinate their efforts along these lines through historical societies. A comparison
                    of numbers and prestige might make such a statement seem incongruous but in the long run it will be
                    found that the real justification for hereditary patriotic societies is historical. Unless they tend
                    to make the American people more historically minded, they will do more harm than good.
            The conclusion of the whole matter is that historians and would-be historians should acknowledge
                    their share of responsibility for our backwardness in intelligent political, economic, and social
                    organization and buckle down to the task of making history shed more light than it has upon the
                    problem of human welfare.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Indiana County Government. By HAROLD C. FEIGHTNER. Indiana Historical Bureau
                        (Indiana History Bulletin, Vol. IX, No. 6), 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1932. Pp. 147.
            This Bulletin represents a revision and a compilation of a series of articles first
                    published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News during the early months of 1931.
            Two introductory articles deal with the origin and legal status of the county as an institution of
                    local government and with the organization and functions of counties in Indiana. The chief functions
                    of the Indiana county are: the preservation of the peace; the administration of justice; the
                    administration of welfare activities, including indoor poor relief; the construction and maintenance
                    of highways and other public works; the imposition and collection of taxes; the holding of
                    elections; the enforcement of state laws; and, to a limited degree, the administration of education.
            The administration of justice throughout the circuit, superior, and special courts is considered at
                    some length. These courts, it is pointed out, while legally component parts of the state judicial
                    system, may for practical purposes be considered as instrumentalities of county government. The
                    grand and petit juries are described, and criminal and civil procedure outlined. Considered in their
                    relation to the court system are the prosecuting attorney, sheriff, coroner, and clerk of the
                    circuit court.
            One of the longer articles is devoted to a discussion of the board of county commissioners, the
                    administrative body which is, in reality, "the heart of county government in
                    Indiana." Another article pertains to the county council, the agency which, through
                    authorizing appropriations and fixing tax rates, controls the purse strings of the county. Other
                    county officials whose offices and duties are described are the recorder, surveyor, treasurer,
                    auditor, assessor, superintendent of schools, agricultural agent, and inspector of weights and
                    measures. There are also articles on county finance, welfare and health work, and elections. A
                    comprehensive index enhances the value of the Bulletin for reference purposes.
            The approach to the problem of county government in the study is both historical and analytical. When
                    a particular office  is selected for discussion a brief
                    historical sketch, going back in some instances to English precedents, is followed by an analysis of
                    the powers and duties of the office as prescribed by constitution and statute.
            It is to be regretted that the readability of the various articles is somewhat impaired by the
                    excessive use of direct quotations, frequently of considerable length, from the state constitution
                    and statutes. The text is also encumbered, at points, with details of very minor significance, while
                    discussions of certain fundamental problems of county government are entirely lacking. Thus the
                    author points out that dueling, under our constitution, makes a person ineligible for public office,
                    and that ferrymen are by statute exempt from jury service. Again, an entire paragraph is devoted to
                    listing the salaries of the sheriffs in the ninety-two counties of the state. Yet one looks in vain
                    for a discussion of the current problems of our jury system or for a consideration of the
                    possibilities of county reorganization. Throughout the articles, indeed, more concern is evidenced
                    for constitutional and statutory provisions as to qualifications, powers and compensation of the
                    various county officials than for a description of their everyday activities as agents of
                    government.
            Notwithstanding these shortcomings, however, the study represents a substantial contribution toward
                    the satisfaction of a real need. Here is collected and compiled, for the first time, certain
                    information concerning county government which hitherto has existed only in scattered and more or
                    less fugitive sources. This fact, undoubtedly, justifies the publication of the material as a Bulletin. The Bulletin should serve as a helpful handbook for
                    those interested in a study of county institutions in Indiana.
            CLYDE F. SNIDER.
         
         
            
               A Pioneer Railroad of Indiana. By FRANK F. HARGRAVE. Privately printed, 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, 1932. Pp. 229, illustrated.
            The greater portion of this monograph is devoted to 'the old railway line constructed from
                    New 
                        Albany
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                    . Over this road, the first train traversing the entire distance left the Lake city at
                    5:00 A.M. on July 3, 1854, and arrived at the 
                        Ohio
                     terminal at 9:00 P.M. of the same day. The 
                    sub-title of the book is "The Origin and Development of the Monon". The popular
                    name "Monon", however, was not used before 1881, in which year the 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Air Line Railway Company was incorporated with the 
                        Chicago
                    , New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     Company. A few years earlier in 1869, the latter Company lost its connection with 
                        Chicago
                     when the line between that metropolis and 
                        Michigan City
                     was surrendered to the 
                        Michigan
                     Central Company.
            The first work of the Air Line was a narrow gauge road from Delphi to 
                        Rensselaer
                    . Preparations had been made for constructing other parts of the line from Renssalaer to 
                        Hammond
                     and from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Delphi. Very soon after the absorption of the Air Line Company in May, 1881,
                    construction was under way, though it was not until 1884 that the road from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     was completed, including the substitution of standard gauge for narrow gauge track
                    between Delphi and 
                        Rensselaer
                    . The new division crossed the old line at Bradford, the name of this town being changed
                    to Monon. After a few years, it was found possible to operate much faster and
                    better trains over the 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     division than between New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Michigan City
                    . Indeed the more important traffic of the old road came to be that between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . After passing through the economic troubles following the panic of 1893, which
                    resulted in a receivedship, the road was reorganized under a new charter in 1897 as the
                            
                  Chicago, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Louisville
                     Railway Company. To the public, employees, and even to officials of the Company,
                    however, it is the "Monon".
            The study of Professor Hargrave is confined largely to the early years of the old line, to which he
                    devotes one hundred eighty-one pages, giving eight pages to the Civil War years, and but fourteen to
                    the whole period since 1865. The volume furnishes, in reality a history of the construction and
                    operation of the railway from the 
                        Ohio
                     to Lake Michigan in the period from 1847 to 1858, with a rapid
                    survey of the developments of later years. The chapters dealing with the problems relating to the
                    construction of the line and its management in the early years are filled with interesting
                    information. The illustrations add value to the book, and some good documentary matter is included
                    in the appendix.
            The format of the book leaves several things to be desired,  and
                    the author has not given sufficient attention to the development of a smooth narrative. There are
                    many dry quotations, which contain valuable information, where the facts could have been presented
                    with more force in the language of the author. On the other hand, there are many quoted passages
                    which add flavor to the story and help the reader to recreate for himself the atmosphere of the
                    period. It is hoped that the author may be able to bring out a somewhat larger edition, improving
                    the style, giving more attention to the importance of the old line during the Civil War and
                    amplifying the history of the Monon since 1881. The expression of this hope for a larger and better
                    edition, does not mean that the reviewer underestimates the great value of the work already
                    accomplished by Professor Hargrave.
         
         
            
               Unedited Letters of Jonathan Jennings is the title of a pamphlet of one hundred
                    thirty pages, constituting Number 4, Volume X, of the Indiana Historical Society
                        Publications (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1932). The letters, numbering more than a hundred and ranging over the years from 1806
                    to 1832, form a very valuable addition to the Jennin'gs letters included in Volume III of
                        Governors Messages and Letters, edited by Dr. Logan Esarey. The present
                    collection was edited by Miss Dorothy Riker, of the Indiana Historical Bureau staff, whose work has
                    been done with extreme care.
            The pamphlet includes besides the letters a "Preface" by Dr. Christopher B.
                    Coleman, Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, a "Chronology" of the life
                    of Jennings, a genealogical table of "The Jennings Family" through three
                    generations, and a "Calendar" of the letters published. The gathering together,
                    editing and printing of the letters, was a highly commendable undertaking on the part of the
                    Historical Society. The documents now made available to students of Indiana history will be welcomed
                    by all. Miss Riker has written a sketch of the career of Jennings, partly based on the new
                    collection of letters, which appears in this issue of the Magazine.
            
               The Archaeology of 
                            Porter County
                        
                by J. Gilbert McAllister, an illustrated study of ninety-six pages appeared
                    recently. It was published as Indiana History Bulletin, Number 1, Volume X, in
                    October, 1932. The author's "Introduction" is followed  by an account of the "Survey" of 
                        Porter County
                     which was made in 1931. The "Excavations" are then described in some
                    detail. An "Appendix" largely made up of pictures of mounds and artifacts,
                    completes the pamphlet. The publication of this story of archaeological work in 
                        Porter County
                    , Indiana, adds another study to the increasing literature of Indiana archaeology
                    produced under the joint auspices of the Indiana Historical Society and the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau.
            
               The Story of 
                            Ohio
                        
               , as "Told by a Museum Exhibit," by Harlow Lindley, Curator
                    of History, was recently published by the 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society. This unusual and fascinating narrative is
                    presented in a tiny (5 x 6 in.) pamphlet of forty-four pages. The story is accompanied by some small
                    historical maps of 
                        Ohio
                     and by more than a dozen well executed pictures of historic scenes and objects. A few
                    pages of the pamphlet are devoted to the "Story of 
                        Ohio
                     in Name, Nickname, Seal, Flag and Flower." This laudable effort of Dr. Lindley
                    exemplifies one excellent way of getting people who do not read pretentious volumes interested in
                    history.
         
         
         
            Comment
            Not only the owners and managers of the vast productive wealth of today regard the existing economic
                    and social system as the most perfect yet known to man, but so do most of our political leaders,
                    lawyers, clergymen, educators, literary lights and philosophers. There is nothing new about this and
                    it is entirely natural. The same thing was true in regard to all of these classes in the age of
                    feudalism, in the days of kings who ruled by divine right, and in the times of African slavery.
                    Those who are the very pillars of any existing edifice will of course believe in the structure,
                    defend it and resist change. History shows that the other classes mentioned will likewise believe,
                    defend, resist change and build up theories and philosophies to explain and sustain the system in
                    the midst of which they live and carry on.
            Systems that have existed in the past have either disappeared through revolution or through gradual
                    decay and replacement by some new system that has developed from necessity or through the operation
                    of natural forces. Often people have found leaders who have helped them to wreck suddenly or modify
                    through a period of years a wornout régime. It would seem that one of the finest
                    attributes of man is his power to project something superior to what he has attained, recognize it
                    as such and work towards it. If ever the countries of the world had need of leaders ready to
                    exercise this capacity, now would seem to be the time.
            With the power to produce commodities for the well-being of mankind up to or beyond the needs of the
                    earth's vast population, the problem to be solved is one of proper distribution. To the
                    solution of this problem, the energies of the world's greatest minds should be at once
                    directed. The challenge of this problem must be boldly and successfully met, or it must be admitted
                    that man's power to play a real part in controlling his own destiny, when all the materials
                    are ready for his hands to shape them, is a mythical power. The acceptance of defeat now, and
                    especially in the 
                        United States
                     where nature does her part so fully, means that men prefer to exist and develop under
                    the operation and control of blind forces.
            In our last issue, we were bold enough to propose a way by  which
                    the executive and legislative branches of the federal government might be kept in harmony. There is,
                    as every intelligent citizen knows, the British Cabinet system which has spread widely among
                    self-governing peoples. The system of government in the 
                        United States
                     has evolved along a different line, largely because of certain provisions in our
                    written constitution. Our scheme of party government is unique, and, being our own, it should not be
                    thrown overboard for another but it can be modified.
            Deadlocks between the President and Congress, which come too readily and often under our system are
                    fatal to efficiency. They prevent the American people from giving credit to leaders who deserve
                    credit and from placing blame where it belongs. They rob political leaders of the incentive to
                    measure up to their responsibilities. Without seriously changing the nature of the
                    President's power, or the nature of the House or Senate, party government in the 
                        United States
                     can be vastly improved by some simple changes in the Constitution.
            Let the President be chosen by a joint convention of the members of both branches
                    of Congress, and whenever differences between House and Senate cannot be ironed out through the
                    means regularly employed, let them be settled in joint convention. To make this
                    system work well the terms of Senators, Representatives and President should alike be two years.
                    Otherwise the Senate and House should be left as they are. The establishment of such a system would
                    automatically do away with the Electoral College and presidential campaigns as we now know them. The
                    new system would not prevent the elevation of a state executive, or any other citizen worthy of
                    consideration, to the presidency.
            There is a good deal that is tiresome and indefensible about College Commencements. There are a good
                    many things that members of faculties are expected to do in connection there with that they cannot
                    do with sincerity or pleasure. The conscientious college teacher is at the very time of commencement
                    festivities confronted with stacks of examination papers and reports, and he is really concerned to
                    deal justly with his students. He cannot find much to admire in drummed up reunions and artifically
                    created enthusiasm. Former students who really want to come back to the institution from which  they were graduated, who really want to look at the campus
                    again and go through the old buildings, and who really want to find and meet once more certain
                    professors—let them come by all means. When they return expecting to get pleasure out of
                    anything else that has been cooked up for them, they are usually disappointed. Would it not be
                    better to greatly modify College Commencements, and confine the exercises to one short program,
                    attended by graduating seniors, those receiving advanced degrees, relatives of any of these, members
                    of the faculty, and any undergraduates or others who may wish to be present. Let the program be of
                    reasonable length and the exercises dignified and artistic. The whole affair will then be helpful
                    and enjoyable, a fitting close to the academic year for all really concerned.
            Much progress has been made in sanitation and in the prevention of disease, especially during the
                    present century. Most people avoid the common drinking cup, the roller-towel has disappeared, and
                    sneezing or coughing in the midst of a crowd is not so common as in earlier days. There is still
                    room for improvement. Anyone can yet observe too many people, even some who are well educated, that
                    take few precautions, violate the simplest rules, and endanger the health of others as well as
                    themselves. As in economic or moral matters, prevention of disasters is better than attempting cures
                    after they come, so in the realm of health, physical or mental, all endeavors to avoid preventable
                    diseases are highly commendable.
            The Indiana Society for Mental Hygiene is to be praised for its objects—"the
                    conservation of mental health and the prevtion of mental disease and defect." It is hoped
                    that much good will come from such meetings of the Society as that held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 12. The educational value of the work of this organization can hardly be
                    overestimated.
            In several instances questions have been asked in connection with articles published in this Magazine, in the hope that answers might be drawn from readers. The results have
                    not been encouraging. Perhaps the queries have escaped the notice of those who could have supplied
                    the desired information. Possibly another effort may bear fruit. At least we shall  try some questions on the small group who read these pages of
                    "Comment".
            Here are some of the questions: Who wrote the volume portraying the daily experiences of some Civil
                    War soldiers under the title Corporal Si Klegg? Who can furnish some information
                    relative to Taylor N. Snow who lived in 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, and who went to 
                        California
                     in 1859? Can anyone furnish the actual measurements of Indiana trees that were from
                    five to ten feet, or more, in diameter? Can any one supply the names of the father and mother of
                    Judge James Hughes, once a citizen of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, who was born in 
                        Maryland
                    ; or the name of the mother of Judge Jesse Lynch Holman, of 
                        Dearborn County
                    , Indiana, who was born in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; or the names of the father and mother of Edward Allen Hannegan, who was born in
                            
                  Hamilton county, Ohio
               ?
            Contributors to this issue: Dorothy Riker is Research Assistant on the staff of the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau; Jane Kitchell is Librarian in charge of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Public Library; Julia LeClerc 
                        Knox
                     is a teacher of Latin in the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     High School; H. S. K. Bartholomew is a retired newspaper man who is now a
                    horticulturist, living near 
                        Goshen
                    ; Margaret Stephenson is a reporter on the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Press; Clyde F. Snider is an instructor in the Political Science Department of
                    Indiana University. The diaries of David Mc-Donald were kindly placed in the hands of the Editor by
                    his daughter, Mrs. Flora McDonald Ketcham of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted and For Sale
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We will purchase copies of: vol. I, numbers 3 and 4
                    (September and December, 1905); vol. II, number 4 (December, 1906): vol. III, number 4 (December,
                    1907; vol. IV, numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, (March, June, September, December, 1908); vol. V, numbers 2, 3
                    (June, September, 1909); vol. VI, numbers 1, 3, 4 (March, September, December, 1910); vol. VII,
                    numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, September, December, 1911); vol. VIII, numbers 1, 2; 4 (March,
                    June, December, 1912); vol. IX, number 1, (March, 1913); vol. X, number 1 (March, 1914). Copies of
                    all of the issues of volumes IV and VII (1908 and 1911), we need very much. If we can procure a few
                    of each of the issues here listed, it will be possible to fully complete several files of the Magazine.
            Copies of the following early issues may be purchased from the Indiana Magazine of
                        History at $1.50 per number; vol. I, numbers 1, 2 (March, June, 1905); vol. II,
                    numbers 1, 2, 3 (March, June, September, 1906); vol. III, numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June,
                    September, December, 1907): vol. V, numbers 1, 4 (March, December, 1909); vol. VI, numbers 1, 2, 3,
                    4 (March, June, September, December, 1910); vol. VIIT, number 3 (September, 1912). Volumes IX to XIX
                    (1913-1919), may be purchased at $4.00 per volume or $1.00 per number. Volumes
                    XX to XXVIII may be purchased at $2.00 per volume or fifty cents per number, except in
                    the case of certain rare numbers which it has been necessary to buy up at advanced prices. Such
                    numbers must be sold at $1.00 each.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
