
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 71, Issue 3, pages 205-298. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:71+issue:3+year:1975&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "Down in the Hills o' 
                        Brown county
                    ": Photographs by Frank M. Hohenberger
            Lorna Lutes Sylvester*
            
            In 1917 Frank Michael Hohenberger left his job as manager of a camera shop in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, and moved approximately forty miles south of the Hoosier capital to the
                    rugged, unglaciated hills of 
                        Brown county
                    . With him he brought an eight dollar lens which he had fitted into a camera;
                    twenty-five dollars in savings; and a desire to photograph the log cabins, old mills, rustic
                    scenery, and picturesque residents of the hills of southern Indiana.1 He was
                    forty-one years old.
            Hohenberger later described his new home in various ways. 
                        Nashville
                    , the county seat, he apparently told a magazine writer in 1933, was when he arrived
                    "a place with only about 300 population, with two groceries, a livery stable, a drug store,
                    and a boarding house; a village far off the railroad, with no industries, dependent on the trade of
                    the hill folk."2 In the pages of his diary the town emerges as a small,
                        
                  
                     * Lorna Lutes Sylvester, associate editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, was born in 
                                Brown county
                            , Indiana, and has since resided in it or neighboring counties. Especial thanks
                            are extended to Miss Elfrieda Lang, former manuscripts librarian at the Lilly Library,
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; to Mrs. Wilma Etnier of the Lilly Library staff; and to the plate making and
                            printing departments of Indiana University Publications for their help in the preparation of
                            this article, which is the first of a series about Frank M. Hohenberger and his photographs.
                  
                     1 Frank M. Hohenberger diary, [66], Hohenberger Collection (Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ). Webb Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train—,"
                                American Magazine, CXVI (October, 1933), 104.
                  
                     2 Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train," 104. In
                            1920, three years after Hohenberger's arrival, 
                                Brown county
                             had a population of 7,019, and 
                                Nashville
                            's residents numbered 323. In 1970 the county's population was
                            9,057; that of 
                                Nashville
                             527. U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: State Compendium, Indiana (
                                Washington
                            , 1923), 11, 22; ibid., Nineteenth Census, 1970. Vol. I, Characteristics of the Population; part 16, Indiana (
                                Washington
                            , 1973), 16–20.
               
                     friendly place with unpaved streets, wood burning stoves,
                    individual water supplies, and helpful but curious neighbors. To his friends Hohenberger described
                    it as "a village nestling in the valley of peace" where he had found the
                    "restfulness that brings inspiration."3
            
            In the preautomotive, World War I era during which Hohenberger settled in 
                  Nashville, Brown County
               
                    retained much of the isolation and self sufficiency reminiscent of the frontier period in
                    Indiana's history. Organized in 1836 from portions of 
                        Monroe
                    , Jackson, and 
                        Bartholomew
                     counties, 
                        Brown
                     is located in the 
                        Norman
                     Upland, a physiographic unit "characterized generally by flat-topped narrow
                    divides, steep slopes, and deep V-shaped valleys." The rugged Knobstone Escarpment
                    penetrates the county and contributes further to its inaccessibility.4 Not until
                    1906 did the 
                        Illinois
                     Central Railroad construct approximately twelve miles of track across the extreme
                    northeastern corner of 
                        Brown county
                    , and well into the twentieth century most roads—even state
                    roads—were little more than dirt or gravel tracks through the hills.5
            
            Lack of adequate transportation facilities, as well as poor soil and the rugged terrain, deterred
                    industrial development in 
                        Brown county
                    . Since most of the land was in slope, with only the larger streams having conspicuous
                    but narrow floodplains,6 the majority of residents were, at the time of
                    Hohenberger's arrival in 1917, small, subsistence hill farmers. Not until the veterans of
                    World War I bought automobiles with their bonus money and thus created a demand for improved roads
                    did the county begin to emerge from its pioneer confines.7 Even then the
                    transition was 
                  
                     3 Frank M. Hohenberger, Down in the Hills o' 
                                    Brown county
                                
                      (privately printed, 1952), Forward.
                  
                     4 George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana
                                Boundaries: Territory, State, and County (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 242–43; Alton A. Lindsey, ed., Natural Features
                                of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), 45.
                  
                     5 Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 244, 245, 246; George S. Cottman, Centennial History and
                                Handbook of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 222; Lloyd H. Steen, "Rail Transportation in Southern
                            Indiana" (M.A. thesis, Department of Geography, Indiana University, 1950), 65B. For
                            a discussion of the 
                                Illinois
                             Central Railroad from 
                                Indianapolis
                             through 
                                Brown county
                             and 
                                Bloomington
                             to 
                        Effingham, Illinois
                     , see Carlton J. Corliss, Main Line of Mid-America (
                                New York
                            , 1950), 333–34.
                  
                     6 Lindsey, Natural Features of Indiana,
                            45–46.
                  
                     7 For a comment from Hohenberger concerning veterans' bonuses
                            and automobiles see Hohenberger diary, [240], Hohenberger Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  FRANK M. HOHENBERGER
                            AS A YOUNG MAN (INSERT) HOHENBERGER: A SELF PORTRAIT, 1954
               
                     slow. Residents worked in factories in neighboring counties and
                    of course continued to farm, but 
                        Brown
                     retained the frontier aura which intrigued scholars and tourists alike and which
                    occasioned numerous historical, economic, and sociological studies during the 1930s and 1940s. As
                    late as the 1950s the area was still sometimes described as an "arrested
                    frontier," and in 1960 it was included in a discussion in the Saturday Evening
                        Post entitled "The Plight of the Hill People."8
            
            Hohenberger witnessed and recorded with his camera the changes in and static quality of the
                        Brown county hills. Born in 
                  Defiance, Ohio
               , on January 4,
                    1876, orphaned at five, and reared by relatives who trained him in the printer's trade, he
                    had spent the first part of his life as an itinerant printer, hired and fired from various jobs
                    throughout the Midwest. When, in 1917, a change in ownership cost him his position as a makeup man
                    on an 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper, Hohenberger sought "something that would have some stability.
                    … Something," he said, "where I could be my own boss and individuality
                    would count."9
                    
                        Brown county
                     provided the location; photography the medium.
            The subjects of Hohenberger's photographs were varied. Many of them dealt with nature:
                    birds, cloud formations, and trees ("Artists like trees with vines, odd shapes, not
                    grotesque, graceful."10). Like many of his artist friends the
                    photographer also pictured the unique scenery of 
                        Brown county
                    . The rugged heights in contrast with the peaceful valleys, the opalescent haze which
                    muted the colors in the distant hills, the brilliancy of colors elsewhere, and the serenity of the
                    whole constantly lured him on field trips with his camera. Of one of his early efforts he wrote:
                    "When I made the autochrome at Simmons …, [I] thought the 
                  
                     8 Genevieve Burger, "A Social and Economic Survey of 
                                Brown county
                            " (B.S. thesis, School of Commerce and Finance, Indiana University,
                            1926); B. W. Douglass, The New Deal Comes to 
                                    Brown county
                                
                      (
                        Garden City, N. Y.
                     , 1926); M. E. Fry, "
                                Brown county
                            : Some Aspects of Health and Medical Care" (M.A. thesis, Division of
                            Social Service, Indiana University, 1948); Ray Mathis, "A History of 
                                Brown county
                            " (M.A. thesis, Department of History, Indiana University, 1936);
                            Jerome Ellison, "The Plight of the Hill People," Saturday
                                Evening Post, CCXXXII (June 4, 1960), 43, 46–49.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 6, 1957, sect. 2, p. 1; ibid. November 16,
                            1963, p. 1; Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train," 104. The quotation
                            is from Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train," 104.
                  
                     10 Hohenberger diary, [41], Hohenberger Collection.
               
                     sky was too blue, and green off color. Since viewing the fleecy
                    clouds, blue sky and green verdure in spring down here, I have changed my first
                        opinion."11 The log cabins in the county intrigued Hohenberger. He
                    photographed a series of them for Good Housekeeping magazine in 1923 and commented
                    about one of the pictures: "This cabin home I had been looking for for years. …
                    Those with outside chimneys and clapboard roofs are indeed a rarity."12
                    Grist mills, sawmills, hooppole factories, school groups, family reunions, the local baseball team,
                    the pioneer crafts and skills of the hill folk (quilting, soap making, basket weaving, gold panning)
                    — all were subjects for Hohenberger's camera.
            Although there are possibly fewer portraits among his work than there are other types of pictures,
                    Hohenberger is probably best known for his studies of the 
                        Brown county
                     "natives." Allie Ferguson, "Aunt" Molly Lucas,
                    Chris and Felix Brummett, Ellen Petro, and their friends and neighbors had their pictures taken by
                    "Hoh" on many occasions. Often they were posed; sometimes not. Frequently the
                    portraits were made at the request of the subject; at other times the photographer himself requested
                    a "sitting." Hohenberger might at one point complain in his diary that a person
                    "would be justified in giving up portraiture as your patrons pay you to lie,"13 but he recognized the potential and the appeal of this type of photography.
                    "I can look back with a good laugh at the time when I didn't want the natives to
                    bother me with making their portraits," he wrote. "I told them they would be
                    $5 a dozen and thought the ‘big’ price would keep them
                        away."14
            
            Hohenberger in fact knew the value of his work and how to sell his photographs. He could insist that
                    the market would find itself if a man put his individuality into his product and that giving people
                    what they wanted should not be considered in every instance, but he could also write:
                    "Photograph the old things which are fast disappearing. … When you picture
                    something that takes the observer back to boyhood days on the farm, you have hit the vital spot in
                    the region of their pocketbook."15 After complaining that customers
                    expected him to drag his camera and heavy equipment 
                  
                            11
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., [243].
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., [161].
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., [190].
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., [114], [115].
               
                     along the waysides, becoming chigger bitten in the process,
                    only to sell his pictures for a "mere shilling,"16 Hohenberger
                    admonished himself and others: 
                        Any time your conscience hurts you as to the price you charge for your summer landscapes,
                            just recall: Starting out in the hottest weather, working in the very hot sun under a
                            focusing cloth, every minute expecting the heat to ruin your bellows. Using rubber boots,
                            and how nice to change to shoes when your feet are sweating. Stopping in the creek to cool
                            the boots. Horse flies and the work attached to killing them so that your horse will go.
                            Stopping for water for the kind beast. When the harness breaks how you love to alight to
                            make repairs in the heat. Chiggers galore. … How many times you pulled the big
                            camera out of the rig and returned it disgusted with the composition. And above all the nice
                            work of developing without ice, and in a stuffy dark-room. The expense of the conveyance.
                            Spoiled films, and they are not inexpensive.17
                  
                     His diary contains plans for circulars to advertise his prints, hints for making his
                    photographs more marketable ("Add smoke to the chimney and you create a human
                        interest."18), and countless suggestions for captions, for he
                    believed that there was "a whole lot in a name when it comes to selling a
                        picture."19
            
            Hohenberger's first sales, he told one reporter, were to tourists who saw the pictures
                    displayed in a shop window in 
                        Nashville
                    . Success really began, however, when several of his photographs were published in the
                    rotogravure section of an 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper. He told the same reporter, concerning his decision to come to 
                        Brown county
                    : "I had a hunch that there was something down here that I could do
                        well."20 Obviously he was right because he was soon mailing prints
                    throughout the world. By 1920 some of his photographs were selling for as much as $25.00
                        each,21 and by 1933, in the midst of the Great Depression, Hohenberger was
                    sometimes making as much as $5,000 a year. Most of his income, however, he spent on
                    equipment and experimenting. He was always experimenting, he said, always learning something new,
                    because he really did not know very much about photography, at least not in the scientific way.22
                    
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., [46].
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., [102].
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., [180].
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., [223].
                  
                     20 Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train,"
                            104–105.
                  
                     21 Hohenberger diary, [179], Hohenberger Collection.
                  
                     22 Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train,"
                        106.
               
                     Despite his frequent disclaimers Hohenberger was a master
                    photographer. His work shows, says one observer, "that he knew to go a step further than
                    just recording a person's appearance. He found his subjects in particular situations and
                    recorded the entire atmosphere with great sensitivity."23 In entry
                    after entry in his diary he describes such techniques as hand coloring, time exposures, developing
                    procedures, and the kinds of camera and film to use to obtain various effects. Comments range from
                    admonitions to shoot pictures against the sun to get "beauteous" effects
                    "not otherwise obtainable"24 to technical instructions for
                    taking cloud pictures. Use "K-3 and B. & J. C filters," he wrote.
                    "The latter gives less contrast. … Make them at all times of day, preferably
                    from elevations. Use anastigmat lenses. … Com. Ortho film. … Long bulb
                        exposure."25 The photographer did all of his own printing and
                    darkroom work26 and was justifiably proud of the unique quality of his product.
                    He was incensed when, early in his career, he was called to 
                        Spencer
                    , Indiana, to swear that he had made certain pictures. "… the very
                    idea—could tell I made them without looking for a trade-mark or sig.," he
                        averred.27
            
            Hohenberger also carried on a running feud with his artist friends concerning the relative merits of
                    photography and painting. He frequently became defensive in his assertions that picture taking, too,
                    was an art, and sarcasm surfaced when he wrote: "Folks say to me ‘I wish I could
                    make as nice pictures as you do.’ Why, it's easy, according to artists. Just
                    like a mechanical toy—you wind it up and it does the rest."28 That artists admitted their inability to paint snow as wet as he could photograph it
                    pleased him, and he usually included the comment in his lectures.29 Hohenberger
                    must have felt vindicated when the 
                        Brown county
                     Art Gallery Association made him an honorary member "because of his
                    contribution to art through the camera lens."30 And 
                  
                     23 Connie Trexler, "
                                Brown
                             Co. Life Captured by Hohenberger's Camera," 
                                Bloomington
                            -
                                Bedford
                            
                            Herald-Times, May 27, 1973, p. 6.
                  
                     24 Hohenberger diary, [29], Hohenberger Collection.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., [504].
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., [113]; Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train,"
                            104.
                  
                     27 Hohenberger diary, [19], Hohenberger Collection.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., [180].
                  
                     29 See, for example, ibid., [115], [121].
                  
                     30 Lester C. Nagley, Sr., "
                                Brown county
                             ‘In the Rough’ Preserved Through Photography," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 3, 1939, part I, p. 19.
               
                     it would have gratified him to know that in 1967, a few years
                    after his death, the Herron Museum of Art in 
                        Indianapolis
                     held an exhibition of his photographs.31
            
            Hohenberger's pictures were not, of course, limited to 
                        Brown county
                     subjects. He traveled extensively throughout Indiana—to
                            
                  Madison, Brookville, Columbus, Turkey
                Run, the Limberlost, the Dunes. He took photographs in 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Carolinas, Mexico. His friends and acquaintances, of course, numbered far more
                    than the Brown county hill folk: Calvin Deam, Indiana state forester; Richard
                    Lieber, father of the Indiana state park system; Marcus Dickey, secretary to and biographer of James
                    Whitcomb Riley; Will Vawter, illustrator of Dickey's biography of Riley; Herman B Wells,
                    president of Indiana University; Theodore C. Steele, world famous artist.
            It was, however, 
                        Brown county
                     and its residents that "created" Hohenberger. Not only did he
                    photograph them, but he wrote about them, too. From 1923 until 1954—except for a period
                    between January 16, 1932, and June 20, 1936—Hohenberger contributed a weekly article
                    entitled "Down in the Hills o' 
                        Brown county
                    " to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star. The articles ranged from amusing anecdotes about his neighbors and their
                    idiosyncracies to sociological, political, historical, and educational comment on 
                        Brown county
                    . Frequently they were accompanied by photographs from Hohenberger's
                    collection. In 1952 he published a brief history of 
                        Brown county
                     under the same title.32
            
            Through his writing the photographer discovered new facets to the characters of the 
                        Brown county
                     natives. "Never dreamed they were so narrow until I had the argument with
                    Louie Snyder," he wrote, after Snyder, the 
                        Brown county
                     truant officer, had accused him of printing lies and distortions which made the county
                    look ridiculous.33 Although many residents commented that Hohenberger's
                    articles "were the truth and that it does us all good to be reminded of facts 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sunday Star Magazine Section, September 24, 1967, p. 7.
                  
                     32 See, for example, ibid., January 4, 1925, part V,
                            p. 2; ibid., August 16, 1942, part V, p. 6; ibid., March
                            11, 1951, sect. VI, p. 18. Copy of report prepared for Lilly Librarian David Randall,
                            February 16, 1966 (Manuscripts Division, Lilly Library).
                  
                     33 Hohenberger diary, [298], Hohenberger Collection. See also ibid., [300].
               
                     occasionally,"34 other 
                        Brown
                     Countians blamed him for "ruining the county by telling tales about the
                    people. …"35 Still others objected to being called natives.
                    It was, they felt, a derogatory term, more properly to be applied to Filipinos.36 Hohenberger recognized—as many writers, artists, and educators did
                    not—that, as he phrased it, it would not do to come to 
                        Brown county
                     "to paint the simple life unless you live it for the time being at least.
                    Folks won't take well to you."37 He lived the simple life, as
                    he interpreted it, almost until his death. His diary reveals his love for the people he photographed
                    and his appreciation and awareness of their worth; it also reveals him—although he would
                    have argued the point—as an outsider, an observer who did not really
                    "belong." In a sense he "used" the natives in his work, and in
                    his writing he poked fun—albeit kindly—at their foibles. That they recognized
                    this and that a number of them perhaps justifiably objected should not have caused him wonder.
            If it can be said that 
                        Brown county
                     created Hohenberger, it can also be asserted that the photographer—and the
                    artists who painted there—at least in part created 
                        Brown county
                    . Many tourists first became acquainted with the old fashioned atmosphere and beauty of
                    the area through Hohenberger's photographs; others remember it only as he pictured it; and
                    many of the present residents, particularly in 
                        Nashville
                    , fight to retain the image of rusticity and rugged beauty—even the
                    backwoodsy flavor—which the "picture man" presented to the world. With
                    the increasing crush of tourists—and they were myriad even in Hohenberger's
                        day38—the advent of recreation vehicles and more and more
                    automobiles, and the influx of outside settlers, 
                        Brown county
                     is fast losing many of its frontier characteristics. No longer isolated, no longer
                    dependent solely on their own resources, the residents are also losing much of the simplicity and
                    serenity which Hohenberger loved and publicized.
            The "Sage of 
                        Brown county
                    ," as he became known, saw 
                        Brown county
                     through World War I, the depression, "bobbed" hair, women's
                    suffrage, prohibition, World War II, 
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., [295].
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., [332].
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., [303].
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., [53].
                  
                     38 See, for example, ibid., [123], [251].
               
                     and shorts for street wear. When he first arrived in the
                    county, he frequently commented upon the simple, commonplace, everyday features that made up his
                    neighbors' lives. "Things illustrative of [James Whitcomb] Riley's works
                    are still here," he said, "but they are fast disappearing."39 He would have to look even harder to find them in the 1970s. But on his death in
                    November, 1963, the photographer left to the Indiana University Foundation more than twenty thousand
                    of the photographs which he had amassed. Kept in the Lilly Library on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus, these pictures assure that Hohenberger's 
                        Brown county
                     will never entirely disappear.
            In 1923 the photographer took from the rear a shot of several prominent 
                        Brown
                     Countians lounging on what was known as the Liars' Bench located in front of
                    the courthouse on the square in 
                        Nashville
                    . Ten years later he had sold more than five hundred copies of the picture to purchasers
                    as far away as 
                        California
                     and 
                  Massachusetts, England
                and the Philippines.40 People
                    frequently asked if the photograph were posed. Such a query, Hohenberger grumbled, "spoils
                    the effect of my work of course."41 Continued requests for copies of
                    the "Liar's Bench," however, attest that pictures, as Hohenberger
                    believed, "speak the only language all mankind can understand" whatever the period
                    in time.42
            
            
               
                  39
                        Ibid., [53].
               
                  40 ‘Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train,"
                        105.
               
                  41 Hohenberger diary, [272], Hohenberger Collection.
               
                  42
                        Ibid., [179]. All of the pictures which have been used in this article are
                        located in the Hohenberger Collection in the Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . No attempt was made to identify the subjects of all photographs, and a number of
                        the identifications which have been made are tentative. Unless otherwise indicated, all captions
                        and quotations were taken from the Hohenberger diary and from notations made on the pictures in
                        the Hohenberger Collection. Captions which appear in boldface type were those suggested by
                        Hohenberger himself either in his 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star articles or elsewhere. Entries from the Hohenberger diary have been
                        standardized and typographical errors therein have been corrected in order to make the captions
                        more readable.
            
            
            
               THE LIARS' BENCH, 1923
            
            
            
            
            On at least one occasion Hohenberger entitled the picture of Seralvo McGuire (opposite) as The Barnyard Philosopher. Below is Mary Jane McGuire—as Hohenberger
                    captioned in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star—among the golden glow.
            
            
            
            Aunt Molly Lucas (opposite) was a favorite with Hohenberger. He appreciated her wit and frequently
                    quoted her in his diary.
            "I asked her [Aunt Molly] about marrying and she said she didn't have enough money
                    to keep a man like she wanted to. Besides, the hot weather, dirt and weeds are keeping her
                    busy" [p. 334].
            "Aunt Molly said she wouldn't vote. The men folks got the country in the shape it
                    is and now they want to wash it off on to us" [p. 302].
            "Aunt Molly saw her first aeroplane August 11, 1924, and when asked what she thought about
                    it said it looked like a buzzard" [p. 349].
            "I introduced her [Aunt Molly] to Clarence Nichols and told her she wanted to be good to him
                    as she might need a lawyer some day. She said her courtin' days were over" [p.
                    323].
            
            
            
            
               NASHVILLE's 1925 BALL TEAM
               
            
            
            Hohenberger jotted down the following comments which he heard at a ball game in 1931:
            "Like hitting an old rotten apple (old ball). Just goes
                    ‘squonk.’"
            "The ball is 3 rods in the soy beans."
            "Born on first base—can't git by me."
            "Hit 'er out—yuhr wife's watching yuh."
            "Call undertaker—everybody was dying on third" [p. 524].
            
            
            Hohenberger wrote of Ellen Petro (opposite and above): "Ellen can read print, but no
                    writing. … Ellen said her father taught her how to drop corn as soon as she could get
                    over the clods. She was an orphan at 7 and worked out all the time. … Ellen was smoking
                    pipe with homegrown tobacco. … Said she couldn't go clean all the time.
                    … When she sat on the porch she laughed quite a bit" [p. 341].
            
            
            
            
               "How do we pass the time in 
                            Brown
                        ? I'll give the old woman's answer: ‘I set and think, and sometimes jist set’ " [p.
                    53].
            
            
            
               According to one 
                            Brown
                         Countian, "Schools teach children things parents don't want them
                        to know, or don't want 'em teached" [p. 2].
            
            
            
            Hohenberger gleaned the following comments from a visit to John Selmier in 1918:
            "Bought wooden shoes three years ago at 
                        Columbus
                    , paid 75¢. Walked to 
                        Nashville
                     [approximately six miles] many times with wooden shoes. … Left 
                        Germany
                     when 17 years old. … Will be 83. … What ought they to do with the
                    Kaiser—he said, ‘see how he comes out.’ The correctest way is
                    right. … Didn't believe that Kaiser did so and so. Thinks he is
                    right—the Kaiser" [p. 34].
            
            
                    "Testing" the Freshly Oiled Street
                
            "The second and last assignment of oil to the clay streets was applied June 13/24. Clint
                    Moore and Lee Bright did the work on the wagon. Others assisted at the sawmill where the barrels
                    were rolled up steep planks and the contents emptied into the tank on wheels. The same was pulled
                    through the streets with the highway truck. It oozed all over the crossing and at my place someone
                    had placed dock leaves for stepping stones. Calamity howlers and bench lizards at the court house
                    said it was a mistake to put sawdust on the oil for when it rained it would wash away. And if it
                    finally dried out the wind would blow it away. Hershel Mobley said it was a devil of a note to put
                    oil on the streets to keep the dust down and then cover the oil with dust. The job cost about
                    $325, donated by citizens" [p. 334].
            
            
            
               
                        Aunt Mary Marshall, of 
                        Helmsburg,
                                    Brown county
                     , who has enjoyed fishing for
                            more than 60 years out of her 74, has just purchased her license for the June
                            "killing."
                    
            
            
            
               MRS. SARAH ELIZABETH SEIBERT
                        ON
                        HER 91ST BIRTHDAY
               
            
            
            "The thing that fascinated me was the way character stood out in the faces of these people.
                    The job that interested me was to get that character onto a photographic plate." [Webb
                    Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train—," American
                        Magazine, CXVI (October, 1933), 104.]
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            "You can't judge things by the surface. Beneath many a smile lurks sadness, and
                    vice versa" [p. 26].
            "The people are simple here—simply good" [p. 122].
            "I asked an old one whether he had lived here all his life and he replied ‘Not
                    yet’" [p. 269].
            "I have noticed on numerous occasions that when you talk to the real hill folk they
                    invariably get off on religious subjects as soon as they can. It shows what they think about while
                    at home. The religious meeting naturally appeals to them—they have no other diversions,
                    seems like" [p. 306].
            "About the time you think you have the relatives of one family mastered, up turns the usual
                    half-sister episode" [p. 47].
            "Why are the pictures like myself? They tell stories" [p. 24].
            
            
               MR. AND MRS. JOHN
                            HATCHETT
               
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
               CHRIS BRUMMETT
               
            
            
            
               ALEC
                        AND MANDY FLEETWOOD MULLIS
               
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
               JEANNE ANNE BLOEMKER
               
            
            
         
         
         
            Governor Samuel M. Ralston and Indiana's Centennial Celebration
            Suellen M. Hoy*
            
            In 1916 Indiana celebrated the centennial of its statehood. There is always something significant in
                    anniversaries, but for Hoosiers this occasion held special meaning. Individually and collectively
                    they were proud of their state's hundred year growth as well as Indiana's
                    achievements in agriculture, industry, politics, education, literature, and the arts.1 And Samuel M. Ralston, the state's centennial governor, was determined that
                    "this historic event … be given proper recognition. …"2
            
            Ralston was elected the twenty-seventh governor of Indiana in 1912 after waging a fierce campaign
                    against Albert J. Beveridge, the Progressive party's well known nominee, and against
                    Winfield T. Durbin, the Republican candidate. A competent lawyer and loyal Democrat, Ralston was a
                    modest man who throughout the campaign of 1912 exhibited a strong sense of decency and dedication.
                    Even more important, he was attuned to the spirit of the times. Believing that Indianians were
                    "conservatively progressive," Ralston made a moderate but successful appeal to the
                    voters' 
                  
                     * Suellen M. Hoy is associate editor of the American Public
                            Works Association's bicentennial project, "History of Public Works in the 
                                United States
                            , 1776–1976," and executive secretary of the Public Works
                            Historical Society, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
                  
                     1 This appears as a constant theme in Harlow Lindley, ed., The Indiana Centennial, 1916: A Record of the Celebration of the One Hundredth
                                Anniversary of Indiana's Admission to Statehood (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919). On one occasion Governor Samuel M. Ralston said: "We are proud
                            individually and collectively of Hoosier achievements. Indiana has developed agriculture to
                            a high state, and her industrial life places her in the first ranks of modern progress. Her
                            art and poetry, her music and education, are the exponents of a virile and masterful people.
                            …" Ralston address, October 3, 1916, Samuel M. Ralston Papers (Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     2 Ralston address, October 3, 1916, Ralston Papers. See also Indiana,
                                House Journal (1915), 53–54.
               
                     growing reform sentiment by publicly committing himself to
                    numerous progressive measures.3
            
            Ralston, who was born in 1856, had witnessed the transformation of the 
                        United States
                     from a predominantly rural-agricultural society to a primarily urban-industrial one.
                    And he, like so many of his contemporaries who exercised political leadership in the early twentieth
                    century, was disturbed by the rapidity and complexity of this change and was anxious about the
                    future of traditional American values and institutions. Ralston was deeply attached to the old
                    social, political, and economic order which had allowed him to advance in both law and politics. But
                    he was not a reactionary who clung obstinately to the past; he realized that unbending resistance in
                    the face of massive change would only be self defeating. As governor, therefore, he not only took
                    the initiative in forwarding a variety of programs which brought Indiana into the forefront among
                    other progressive states, but he served Hoosiers in a manner of which they could be proud as they
                    celebrated their state's hundred year anniversary.4
            
            When the sixty-ninth session of the legislature convened on January 7, 1915, Ralston reported on the
                    affairs of state in a message more somber than that delivered before the previous session of the
                    General Assembly in 1913.5 After reminding his listeners of Indiana's
                    forthcoming anniversary, he asked that during this commemorative period they "jealously
                    guard her fair name and zealously labor to preserve her untarnished glory."6 The governor also requested that the legislators create a centennial commission and
                    appropriate $25,000 for a public celebration "in keeping with the dignity of the
                        state."7
            
            
               
                  3 Suellen M. Hoy, "Samuel M. Ralston: Progressive Governor,
                        1913–1917" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University,
                        1975). For quotation see Ralston to Thomas Taggart, February 14, 1914, Ralston Papers.
               
                  4 Hoy, "Samuel M. Ralston," esp. 232–44.
               
                  5 In 1913 there had been a sense of exhilaration over the recent victory
                        which had given Democrats control of the statehouse and of both legislative chambers. Ralston
                        and his colleagues had looked with anticipation to the future. 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 10, 1913.
               
                  6 Indiana, House Journal (1915), 20.
               
                  7
                        Ibid., 53. In 1913 the General Assembly had rejected various proposals
                        concerning Indiana's centennial observance. Finally, a provision was made to
                        appropriate $2,000,000 for a memorial building that would house a state library and
                        other state agencies. In the regular fall election in 1914 this proposal was rejected by the
                        voters. Indiana, Laws (1913), 526–28; Biennial Report
                            of the Secretary of State for the Two Years Ending October 31, 1914 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1914), 168–69. Ralston believed that the proposal was rejected not
                        because the people were hostile "to a proper celebration of that historic
                        event" but because they objected "to the amount of money sought to be
                        appropriated therefor." Indiana, House Journal (1915), 53.
            
            
            
               INDIANA HISTORICAL COMMISSION, 1916
               Reproduced from Harlow Lindley, ed., The Indiana Centennial, 1916: A Record of the Celebration of
                        the One Hundredth Anniversary of Indiana's Admission to Statehood (Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Vol. III; 
                            Indianapolis
                        . 1919), 21.
            
            
            In response to Ralston's directives both houses voted unanimously to create a nonsalaried,
                    nonpartisan historical commission and to appropriate $25,000 for its use. The governor;
                    James A. Woodburn, professor of American history and politics and director of the Indiana Historical
                    Survey at Indiana University; and Harlow Lindley, director of the Department of Indiana History and
                    Archives at the state library, were made ex officio members; and Ralston was given
                    the authority to appoint six other members.8 The Indiana Historical Commission
                    received two major assignments. Its immediate task was to prepare and execute plans for the
                    state's centennial celebration in 1916. Its more enduring responsibility was to collect,
                    edit, and publish materials relating to the history of Indiana.9
            
            After the commission's first meeting in Ralston's office on April 23 and 24, 1915,
                    an ambitious "campaign of centennial education" was launched. General bulletins
                    setting forth the commission's purpose and plans were widely distributed. Special articles
                    were prepared for newspapers, periodicals, and news agencies. One of the most active members of the
                    commission, Charity Dye of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , wrote and edited "The Centennial Story Hour" for children, which
                    series of articles appeared in the Sunday edition of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star. Many involved and patriotic citizens, as well as commissioners, accepted
                    speaking engagements before commercial and civic organizations, social clubs, historical societies,
                    and church groups. In September, 1915, the commission began the publication of a weekly newsletter
                    designed 
                  
                     8 Indiana, Laws (1915), 455–57. Of the
                            $25,000 appropriated, $20,000 was for the promotion of centennial
                            celebrations throughout the state; $5,000 was for the collection and publication
                            of historical documents. Ralston appointed Charles W. Moores, Frank B. Wynn, and Charity Dye
                            of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Lew O'Bannon of Corydon; John Cavanaugh of 
                                South Bend
                            ; and Samuel Foster of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            . Ralston was president; Wynn, vice president; Lindley, secretary; Woodburn,
                            chairman of committee on historical publications; Wynn, chairman of committee on ways,
                            means, and plans for celebration; and O'Bannon, chairman of committee on publicity.
                            Ralston's centennial commission appointments, April, 1915, Ralston Papers. The
                            Indiana Historical Survey had been organized in 1913 to collect and publish materials on the
                            history of Indiana, but the survey never received enough funds to become permanently
                            established. Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an
                                Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 538.
                  
                     9 Indiana, Laws (1915), 456–57. See also
                            James A. Woodburn, "The Indiana Historical Commission and Plans for the
                            Centennial," Indiana Magazine of History, XI (December, 1915),
                            339. The Indiana Historical Commission used its $5,000 appropriation to issue the
                            first four volumes of the Indiana Historical Collections.
                  
               
                     to serve as a clearing house of information for county chairmen
                    and the press. George Ade, a prominent Indiana playwright from 
                        Newton County
                    , undertook a project to bring former Hoosiers back to Indiana during 1916 for a
                    homecoming celebration. And as a salute to the state's agricultural and industrial
                    diversity, Ralston proclaimed February 22, 1916, "Indiana Products Day." Banquets
                    and dinners were held in various towns and cities, at which nothing but products grown or
                    manufactured in the state were supposed to be served.10
            
            Although the commissioners encouraged projects all over the state, they were determined that
                    Indiana's one hundredth anniversary would not be "marred by the presence of
                    anything of a cheap and tawdry nature." They warned county chairmen that the centennial
                    celebration was not a "carnival,"11 and when it became clear
                    that the National Patriotic League—a commercial enterprise supposedly emanating from 
                        Washington
                    , D. C.—was "masquerading under the guise of patriotism,"
                    it was publicly denounced. Speaking as president of the commission, Ralston declared that the league
                    had "no connection with the duly organized Indiana Historical Commission" and that
                    "all the work and arrangements of such ‘League’ or such persons is
                    hereby repudiated. …"12 The governor personally feared that
                    the National Patriotic League was attempting "to cripple materially the work of the
                    statutory commission, by inaugurating a movement in different cities in the state, out of which the
                    promoters can make some money."13 He was not mistaken. Before the
                    league's operation was halted, members of the commission were forced to issue several more
                    statements. They warned those who continued to work with the league that they were doing so 
                  
                     10 Ralston to James A. Woodburn, April 20, 1915, Ralston Papers;
                            Lindley, Indiana Centennial, 26–32; Centennial
                                News Letter, November 29, December 13, 1915, April 10, 24, 1916; Jeannette Covert
                            Nolan, Hoosier City: The Story of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 256; Ralston's Indiana Products Day proclamation, January 27,
                            1916, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     11
                            Centennial News Letter, April 24, 1916. County chairmen were appointed by
                            the Indiana Historical Commission. They were "to organize a county committee to
                            co-operate with the Commission in promoting the general State-wide celebration and in
                            arousing local interest and planning for local celebrations." Woodburn,
                            "Indiana Historical Commission and Plans for the Centennial," 342.
                  
                     12 Ralston's statement on National Patriotic League,
                            September 1, 1915, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     13 Ralston to Frank V. Guthrie, September 16, 1915, Ralston
                        Papers.
               
                     "at their own risk and with the clear understanding
                    that they are in no way co-operating with the spirit and high purposes of the Indiana Centennial
                    observance. …"14
            
            Except for this one incident the plans of the Indiana Historical Commission were apparently not
                    thwarted, and the centennial celebration proved to be one "in keeping with the dignity of
                    the state."15 Hoosiers appropriately displayed their patriotism,
                    gratitude, and reverence in a variety of ways. In an effort to preserve the sources of
                    Indiana's history, publication of descriptions of early travels and documents related to
                    the state's constitution were commenced under the commission's direct supervision.
                    Commemorative songs and poems were written; markers were placed on historic highway trails; and
                    local ceremonies and pageants were held in communities throughout the state.16
            
            One of the most memorable festivities took place at Corydon, Indiana's first capital, on
                    June 2 and 3, 1916. Ralston, who gave the opening address, observed how fitting it was that
                    "Hoosiers in this the centennial year of their state should come to Corydon … to
                    recall something of the state's history … and to strengthen their love of and
                    devotion to those principles of free government that were so enably [sic]
                    enunciated in the state's first chart of liberty, the Constitution of 1816."17 Thomas J. Wilson, chairman of the committee on program and arrangements for
                    the Corydon celebration, was dedicated to keeping out "all cheap, objectionable shows,
                    so-called entertainments all too common on such occassions [sic]."18 Thus, proper memorial speeches and a dignified historical pageant, directed
                    by State Pageant Master William Chauncey Langdon, were presented.19 Musical
                    selections were 
                  
                     14 See, for example, the Indiana Historical Commission's
                            "Statement of Warning," November 7, 1915, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     15 Indiana, House Journal (1915), 53.
                  
                     16 Lindley, Indiana Centennial, 33–35,
                            42–43, 45–50, 58–65; Woodburn, "Indiana Historical
                            Commission and Plans for the Centennial," 340–45.
                  
                     17 Ralston address, June 2, 1916, Ralston Papers. Although it was
                            impossible for Ralston to attend every local celebration, he appeared at many of them.
                            Besides Corydon, the governor went to 
                        Bloomington, Lebanon
                     , and 
                                Connersville
                             and presided at nearly every centennial event in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Most of Ralston's addresses at these celebrations may be found in the
                            Ralston Papers, 1916.
                  
                     18 Thomas J. Wilson to James A. Woodburn, March 27, 1916, Ralston
                            Papers.
                  
                     19 William Chauncey Langdon, The Pageant of Indiana: The
                                Drama of the Development of the State as a Community from Its Exploration by LaSalle to
                                the Centennial of Its Admission to the Union (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916).
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Harlow Lindley, ed., The Indiana Centennial, 1916: A Record of
                                the Celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of Indiana's Admission to
                                Statehood (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919), 372.
               
                    
                    
                  The Corydon Pageant
                  Reproduced from Harlow Lindley, ed., The Indiana Centennial, 1916: A Record of
                                the Celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of Indiana's Admission to
                                Statehood (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1919), 163.
               
                     played by the Indiana University orchestra and the Purdue
                    University band.20 And the old capitol at Corydon was secured as a permanent
                    state memorial.21
            
            Another significant consequence of Indiana's anniversary celebration was the emergence of a
                    system of state parks. In April, 1915, Ralston received "an inspiring letter" from
                    Juliet V. Strauss of 
                        Rockville
                    , a writer for Ladies' Home Journal and "country
                    contributor" to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News. Strauss had spent her childhood near Bloomingdale Glens—or 
                        Turkey
                     Run as it was known to 
                        Parke County
                     residents—and in her letter she appealed to the governor to save this tract
                    of virgin forest from the lumber industry.22 Exactly one week later, on April
                    27, Ralston appointed Strauss, William W. Woollen of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Vida Newsom of 
                        Columbus
                     to a 
                        Turkey
                     Run Commission. They were given one task: preserve 
                        Turkey
                     Run for the state.23
            
            Turkey Run, in northern 
                        Parke County
                    , was "a paradise of rocky gorges, glens, bathing beaches and waterfalls, a
                    retreat for song birds and a garden of wild flowers."24 Most impressive
                    were the old and stately trees—poplars, black walnuts, oaks, sycamores,
                    beeches—which covered the canyons as well as the cliffs. 
                        Turkey
                     Run's original white occupants were Captain and Mrs. Salmon Lusk who had
                    discovered the land while traveling northward from Fort Harrison in 1826. Lusk, a Vermonter, had
                    served under William Henry Harrison at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and was given the tract in recognition of his service. Much later, 
                        Turkey
                     Run became the property of the captain's son, John. An eccentric hermit but an
                    ardent admirer of nature, John Lusk refused many attractive offers from lumbermen and 
                  
                     20 Indiana University President William L. Bryan and Purdue University
                            President William E. Stone offered the services of both groups for no charge except that of
                            "transportation and subsistence." Thomas J. Wilson to James A. Woodburn,
                            March 27, 1916, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     21 Indiana Department of Conservation, Division of State Parks, Lands
                            and Waters, The Corydon State Capitol: A State Memorial (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1947).
                  
                     22 Juliet V. Strauss to Ralston, April 19, 1915, Governor Samuel M.
                            Ralston Papers (Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 9, 1924.
                  
                     23 Ralston's 
                                Turkey
                             Run Commission appointments, April 27, 1915, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     24 Richard Lieber's Report to Indiana Historical Commission,
                            November 25, 1916, in David M. Silver, ed., "Richard Lieber and Indiana's
                            Forest Heritage," Indiana Magazine of History, LXVII (March,
                            1971), 49.
               
                     preserved 
                        Turkey
                     Run in its primitive state. In 1882 he gave the 
                  Indianapolis, Decatur
               , and 
                        Springfield
                     Railroad a franchise to open a summer resort at 
                        Turkey
                     Run, which continued to operate under various managements until 1915 when the younger
                    Lusk died.25
            
            Strauss had not appealed only to the governor in April, 1915. She had also contacted Richard Smith,
                    managing editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, whom she knew through her work as the newspaper's country
                    contributor. Although Smith had never heard of 
                        Turkey
                     Run, he was willing to promote a good cause, and he promised his help. He recalled that
                    Richard Lieber of 
                        Indianapolis
                    —the man who would soon become Indiana's most prominent
                    conservationist—had written an editorial for the News a few years
                    before in which he had protested the removal of some magnificent trees to make way for a
                    thoroughfare. Smith sent for Lieber and told him of Strauss' request. Without a
                    moment's hesitation Lieber committed himself to the preservation of 
                        Turkey
                     Run.26
            
            Lieber, German born, came to Indiana in 1891, but he played no role in the state's
                    conservation movement until after 1910. His conversion to the conservation movement was hastened in
                    September, 1910, while visiting a friend, Fred Hetherington, at his cabin in 
                        Brown county
                    . Lieber was astonished to find such scenic beauty so near to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and suggested that the "whole county ought to be bought up by the State and
                    then made into a State Park so that all of the people of Indiana could enjoy this beauty
                    spot." In February, 1911, Lieber purchased some land in 
                        Brown county
                     on which he built his own Whip-poor-will Lodge. In October, 1912, he served as chairman
                    of the local board of governors for the Fourth National Conservation Congress held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From that point on, his activities on behalf of conservation never ceased.27
            
            
               
                  25 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber by His Wife, Emma (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1947), 84–85. Emma Lieber explains how Bloomingdale Glens got the name
                        "Turkey Run." Thousands of wild Turkeys used to collect in droves under the
                        overhanging rocks for protection. As a result, the settlers began calling the region
                        "Turkey Run." See also Robert Allen Frederick, "Colonel Richard
                        Lieber, Conservationist and Park Builder: The Indiana Years" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                        Department of History, Indiana University, 1960), 112–14.
               
                  26 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 80; Frederick,
                        "Colonel Richard Lieber," 115.
               
                  27 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 68–71, 77.
                        The quotation is found on page 69.
            
            
            Lieber called on Ralston in November, 1915, to discuss Indiana's centennial celebration and
                    the movement to save 
                        Turkey
                     Run.28 Although there is no known transcription of the
                    conversation, it is nearly certain that Lieber proposed "one solution" to end
                    "the destruction of the forests, the neglect of the historical places and the beauty spots
                    that mean health and happiness to its [Indiana's] people." Lieber's
                    "one solution" was to create a system of state parks as a permanent memorial of
                    the centennial celebration.29 Ralston evidently voiced "no
                        objections."30 As a sign of his approval, the governor appointed
                    Lieber to the 
                        Turkey
                     Run Commission in January, 1916.31 And when the Indiana Historical
                    Commission met that same month, it passed a motion to inaugurate a system of state parks. Lieber
                    subsequently accepted the commission's invitation to serve as chairman of the newly created
                    state park memorial committee of which the 
                        Turkey
                     Run Commission was to be a part.32
            
            To win support for a system of state parks Lieber and his colleagues initiated an impressive campaign
                    of education and persuasion. They first pointed out to Indiana citizens that the proposed park plan
                    was the only centennial plan that would memorialize the state as a whole in 1916. But more
                    important, they argued that a park system would be a worthwhile and dignified memorial. The
                    state's parks would "refresh and strengthen and renew tired people, and fit them
                    for the common round of daily life." No one, they asserted, could doubt the dignity of such
                    a plan. A comprehensive system of state parks, committee members urged, "would not only
                    memorialize the past but would build for the future. …" Indiana's parks
                    would "stand forever as a token of the past," and they would also "bring
                    health, wealth and happiness to our own generation and the many that will come after
                        us."33
            
            
               
                  28
                        Ibid., 69
               
                  29 Richard Lieber, "A State Park System of Parks: Its Value to
                        both Town and Country," Pall, 1915, Richard Lieber Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana
                        University).
               
                  30 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 80.
               
                  31 Ralston to Richard Lieber, January 14, 1916, Lieber Papers. Lieber
                        responded: "I shall gladly accept and promise to do all in my power to bring about this
                        much desired end." Richard Lieber to Ralston, January 17, 1916, Governor Ralston
                        Papers.
               
                  32
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, March 18, 1916; Silver, "Richard Lieber and Indiana's
                        Forest Heritage," 46; Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 81.
               
                  33 Richard Lieber's Report, November 25, 1916, in Silver,
                        "Richard Lieber and Indiana's Forest Heritage,"
                    53–55.
            
            
            Lieber believed that the committee's arguments had been favorably received, but he knew that
                    the real test was yet to come. 
                        Turkey
                     Run was to be sold at an auction on May 18, 1916. If Indiana were to purchase it, the
                    money had to be raised by public subscription since the legislature had not appropriated funds for
                    that purpose. The Indiana Historical Commission and the state park memorial committee met jointly
                    and set the goal at $25,000. On April 12 Ralston issued a proclamation designating the
                    week of April 24 "an appropriate time" for giving subscriptions "to
                    acquire scenic tracts and historic spots in various parts of Indiana, and thus lay the foundation
                    for a state-wide park system, and dedicate them to perpetual use of all the people.
                        …"34
            
            The park committee published and widely circulated a pamphlet which included among other items a
                    description, a map, and pictures of 
                        Turkey
                     Run.35 Committee members approached special interest groups,
                    organizations, and institutions in the state for subscriptions; they sent weekly newsletters to the
                    Indiana press; and they wrote feature articles which appeared regularly in newspapers throughout the
                    state. Lieber successfully secured endorsements of the state park plan from renowned men in public
                    life. When the fund raising was over, the park committee announced that it had collected
                        $20,000.36 The mark had not been reached, but no one seemed
                    disappointed. On the day before the auction the 
                  
                     34 Ralston's park subscription proclamation, April 12, 1916,
                            Ralston Papers. Ralston acknowledged that Lieber wrote the proclamation and thanked him for
                            doing so. Emma Lieber complimented Ralston for this: "To show you what an unusually
                            fine man Governor Ralston was, I am copying the following item from a newspaper clipping
                            which Governor Ralston had published in our papers. It is rare that any politician in office
                            gives credit to a ghostwriter. …" Emma Lieber, Richard
                                Lieber, 82.
                  
                     35
                            Indiana State Parks to be Founded by Public Subscriptions Raised Under the
                                Direction of the State Park Memorial Committee of the Indiana Historical Commission (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916).
                  
                     36 Richard Lieber's Report, November 25, 1916, in Silver,
                            "Richard Lieber and Indiana's Forest Heritage," 51–52;
                            Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 83–84; Frederick,
                            "Colonel Richard Lieber," 121. It perhaps should be noted that Senator
                            Thomas Taggart sent Richard Lieber a check for $1,000 from 
                                Washington
                            , D. C. Indianapolis Star, May 10, 1916. Some of the other
                            prominent persons who endorsed the centennial park plan were President Woodrow Wilson, Vice
                            President Thomas Marshall, former President Theodore Roosevelt, Secretary of the Interior
                            Franklin K. Lane, Senator John W. Kern, James Whitcomb Riley, Booth Tarkington, George Ade,
                            and Meredith Nicholson. Letters from these persons and others to Lieber can be found in the
                            Lieber Papers, 1916.
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News proudly reported: "Attention! SOS means: See Our State Park, 
                        Turkey
                     Run."37
            
            On May 18, the day of the auction, over two thousand people gathered in the park to watch Leo M.
                    Rappaport, bidder and secretary of the state park memorial committee, win 
                        Turkey
                     Run from the lumber industry. Throughout the fund raising campaign the park committee
                    had heard reports that several timber companies were organizing to bid on the Lusk estate. In an
                    attempt to dissuade them Lieber had asked Charles H. Barnaby, a friend and an influential lumberman,
                    to write an article for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News explaining why timbermen should allow the state to acquire 
                        Turkey
                     Run. Although Barnaby had complied, the lumbermen's threat was never
                    completely removed.38
            
            During the beginning stages of the auction, some timbermen gave token bids up to $15,000
                    and then stopped, while other members of the lumber industry, the Lusk heirs, and Rappaport
                    continued in the contest. When the bidding reached $21,000, Rappaport momentarily
                    withdrew. He hurriedly consulted with members of the park committee and returned quickly to shout
                    out his final bid of $30,100—much more money than the committee had. Just when
                    it appeared as if Indiana had saved 
                        Turkey
                     Run, Joseph Gross, a representative of the Hoosier Veneer Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , cast his bid of $30,200 and secured the park.39
            
            The park committee and the governor, disappointed and regretful, continued their efforts to procure 
                        Turkey
                     Run.40 Rappaport, an attorney by profession, opened negotiations
                    with the Hoosier Veneer Company. At one point the company offered a threefold proposal according to
                    which the company would remove many of the choice trees and then donate the land and remaining
                    forest to the state. The committee found this plan unacceptable and refused the offer.41 Nevertheless, 
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 17, 1916.
                  
                     38 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 85–86;
                            Frederick, "Colonel Richard Lieber," 125–26; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 24, 1916.
                  
                     39 Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 85–86;
                            Frederick, "Colonel Richard Lieber," 125–26. See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 19, 1916.
                  
                     40 Ralston wrote to Juliet V. Strauss: "There is nothing
                            short of committing a crime that I will not do to secure … this park."
                            Ralston to Juliet V. Strauss, May 31, 1916, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     41 Richard Lieber's Report, November 25, 1916, in Silver,
                            "Richard Lieber and Indiana's Forest Heritage," 52–53;
                            Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 87.
               
                     optimism ran high, and an 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News editorial speculated that "Mr. [Henry E.] Dougherty [president of
                    the Hoosier Veneer Company] has shown that he is not without appreciation of the people's
                    wishes in this matter, and it seems probable that a further conference … might bring this
                    much perturbed question to a happy solution."42 It did. On November 11,
                    1916, 
                        Turkey
                     Run was purchased from the Hoosier Veneer Company for the sum of $40,200.
                    The price was met in large part by private donations and by a substantial contribution from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Motor Speedway Association.43 Lieber, in his final report to the
                    Indiana Historical Commission, thanked the park benefactors and commended the governor for his
                    "active and sustained interest" during the entire period.44
            
            While the 
                        Turkey
                     Run negotiations were underway, a group of 
                        Owen County
                     citizens informed the park committee that McCormick's Creek Canyon was soon to
                    be sold by the administrator of the Frederick W. Denkewalter estate. The property was viewed and
                    appraised, and the committee decided to purchase the land if the citizens of 
                        Owen County
                     would raise one fourth of the price. Within a very short time these citizens had
                    collected their portion, and Rappaport was once again commissioned to do the state's
                    bidding at the public auction in 
                        Spencer
                    . On this occasion the park committee's efforts were not stymied.
                    McCormick's Creek was acquired with a bid of $5,250. Thus, McCormick's
                    Creek 
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 23, 1916. Juliet V. Strauss wrote the governor: "Can
                            nothing be said to make Mr. Dougherty see what a burning disgrace to Indiana here in our
                            Centennial year this affair is? I suppose Eminent Domain is impossible. If it were possible
                            you would have the opportunity of a life time to popularize your self & your
                            office—for it would be a matter of national interest. Now you
                            can't imagine the feeling that exists throughout the state towards the Hoosier
                            Veneer Co. I believe people would lynch Dougherty if they had a leader. Every body has been
                            crazy about you taking the part you have." Juliet V. Strauss to Ralston, May 27,
                            1916, Ralston Papers. In response, Ralston thanked her for her compliment and promised to
                            work hard "to save 
                                Turkey
                             Run." He closed optimistically: "As a bit of consolation
                            … I feel that in some way the state will ultimately come into possession of this
                            beauty spot." Ralston to Juliet V. Strauss, May 31, 1916, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     43 Arthur C. Newby, an automobile builder and racing enthusiast,
                            contributed $5,000. The board of directors and owners of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Speedway, who contributed $5,065, were Carl G. Fisher, Newby, Frank
                            H. Wheeler, and James A. Allison. Richard Lieber's Report, November 25, 1916, in
                            Silver, "Richard Lieber and Indiana's Forest Heritage,"
                            53–54.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 53.
               
                     Canyon—and not 
                        Turkey
                     Run—became the "first link in the chain of parks"
                    established by the people of Indiana on the one hundredth anniversary of their statehood.45
            
            In addition to giving birth to a system of state parks, Indiana's centennial celebration
                    stimulated interest in the good roads movement. The park committee noted that improved highways
                    would "naturally follow" the development of a system of state parks. Better roads,
                    the committee observed, "would soon bring these Parks into ready accessibility for people
                    even of modest means."46
            
            Much work needed to be done, however, before the park committee's predictions could be
                    realized, for Indiana in the early twentieth century lagged far behind other states in the area of
                    highway improvement. It had no department of highways nor did it have a uniform policy governing the
                    construction and maintenance of public roads. Because of this lack of organization Indiana on one
                    occasion did not share in funds appropriated by the federal government for the building of new
                        roads.47 As president of Indiana's Good Roads Association, Clarence
                    A. Kenyon reported in 1914: "each county and each township is a rule unto
                        itself."48
            
            Ralston was not unaware of these conditions. Yet, as governor of a state with a large farm
                    population, he faced stiff resistance to road reform. Many farmers, bound to a tradition of local
                    building and maintenance of roads, were reluctant to exchange their accustomed practices in favor of
                    a system that would require payment of all road taxes in money. A state financed highway program
                    suggested increased taxation and the loss of local control over roads, and the farmers refused to
                    accept either of these possibilities. They already felt overburdened with taxes, and in many
                    instances they considered the roads that led to and from their 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid. See also Emma Lieber, Richard Lieber, 88;
                            Frederick, "Colonel Richard Lieber," 127–30; Charles Sauers,
                                McCormick's Creek Canyon: A History and Description (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923).
                  
                     46 "Report of the State Park Memorial Committee,"
                            November 11, 1916, Lieber Papers.
                  
                     47 Jesse Taylor, director of the American Highway Association, spoke
                            in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on April 17, 1914. In part he said: "Indiana is far behind the other
                            states in the matter of road improvement. Your state has no highway commission and no state
                            road fund. As a result … Indiana was not able to share in the distribution of
                            money appropriated by the government in July, 1912, for the construction of state roads.
                            …" 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, April 18, 1914. See also Phillips, Indiana in
                            Transition, 266.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 31, 1914.
               
                     property as their own. Moreover, they believed that the
                    city—at rural expense—would reap the benefits of improved roads.49
            
            Rural residents had to be convinced that through a coordinated and comprehensive system of highway
                    supervision they too would benefit. In 1913, when the Hughes road bill advocating the creation of a
                    state highway department was before the house, road reformers argued that highway improvements
                    increased farm efficiency and lessened rural isolation.50 In a series of
                    conferences with legislative representatives from agricultural areas, Ralston also attempted to
                    assuage their fears and enlist their support,51 but "the country
                    members … were not to be whipped into line." The Hughes measure was
                    overwhelmingly rejected by a vote of seventy-nine to thirteen.52
            
            Ralston never accepted the legislature's verdict as final. This was hardly a surprise, for
                    the governor was widely acknowledged as a highway enthusiast. Some sources reported that he had
                    become committed to road improvement "when as a young man on an 
                        Owen County
                     farm he drove a yoke of oxen over muddy, rough highways in hauling logs to the
                        mill";53 others believed that he had been converted to the good
                    roads movement during a summer vacation at Senator Thomas Taggart's seashore home in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , where he traveled over the state's "smooth, well-built
                        roads."54 Whatever the case, Ralston was determined to do
                    everything within his power to insure "a revision of the road laws."55
                    
                  
                     49 A good indication of farmers' sentiments appeared in
                            letters to the editor in 1913 when a variety of road bills were before the legislature. For
                            example, D. V. Isenhour of 
                                Connersville
                            , Indiana, argued that the road bills were "for the sole benefit of
                            city automobile owners." He insisted that "if the farmers had to pay their
                            road tax in money you could not get more than half the gravel on the roads as we do with the
                            present system." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 3, 1913. Another farmer, from 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, wrote directly to Ralston: "I wish to enter my most vigorous
                            protest against the bill that compels the farmer to pay his road tax in cash. …
                            We work out our road tax at a season of the year when our labor can best be spared from the
                            care of our crops and it is that much money saved to the farmer that we can illy spare to
                            pay out at some stranger's dictation." George B. Dougan to Ralston,
                            February 3, 1913, Ralston Papers. Indiana's rural population was not unlike that of
                            other states. See Ballard Campbell, "The Good Roads Movement in 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1890–1911," 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History, XLIX (Summer, 1966), 273–93.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 29, February 4, 8, 1913.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., January 30, 1913.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., February 7, 1913.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 14, 1914.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 23, 1913.
                  
                     55 Indiana, House Journal (1915), 41.
               
                     Fully aware of the significance of 1916 as a centennial year
                    and convinced that parks and roads were natural allies, he proclaimed October 12
                    "Centennial Highway Day."56
            
            In 1916 the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     appropriated $75,000,000 for distribution among the states to construct
                    rural post roads. To receive federal assistance it was mandatory that a state have a local highway
                    commission or department authorized to receive and disburse federal funds to the county road
                    building programs.57 Ralston, who was determined to provide for just such a
                    commission, paved the way in 1916 for the action taken by the legislature in 1917. Besides
                    proclaiming October 12 "Centennial Highway Day," he invited President Woodrow
                    Wilson to Indiana to celebrate the occasion.58
            
            After some hesitation the president consented to come to 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the state's centennial in the interest of good roads and "not
                    to talk politics."59 In a lengthy address to seven thousand people
                    assembled in the State Fair Grounds Coliseum, Wilson recalled his own concern for improved highways
                    first as governor of 
                        New Jersey
                     and secondly as president of the 
                        United States
                    . He summarized the material benefits to be derived from good roads, and then in true
                    Wilsonian fashion he emphasized the spiritual values. "Good roads are necessary
                    … to draw neighbors together, to create a community of feeling," for the
                    "blood of the nation will not 
                  
                     56 Ralston's Centennial Highway Day proclamation, August,
                            1916, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     57
                            
                                United States
                             Department of Commerce, Bureau of Public Roads Division, Highways
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1951), 3; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 467.
                  
                     58 Ralston's letter to President Wilson does not appear in
                            the Wilson Papers. There is, however, a letter from Meredith Nicholson encouraging the
                            president to come to Indiana. In one part Nicholson stated: "I beg to suggest, what
                            the Governor could not mention in his letter, the great opportunity this occasion presents
                            of appearing before a great host of Hoosiers of every political faith. If you do not accept
                            the managers of the affair expect to invite Mr. Hughes." Meredith Nicholson to
                            Woodrow Wilson, August 12, 1916, Woodrow Wilson Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of
                            Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.). Ralston's expressed concern for better roads and highways in
                            1915 and 1916 seems to have helped pave the way for the establishment of the Indiana State
                            Highway Commission by the legislature in 1917. Indiana, Laws (1917),
                            253–73.
                  
                     59 On August 16 President Wilson wrote to Ralston and refused to
                            attend the highway celebration. He said he was "very much engrossed in duties from
                            which I cannot wisely turn away." Woodrow Wilson to Ralston, August 16, 1916,
                            Ralston Papers. Then, in September, Ralston received a telegram in which Wilson accepted
                            "the kind invitation." Vance C. McCormick to Ralston, September 21, 1916,
                                ibid.
                  
               
                     flow in harmonious concord unless it can flow in intimate
                        sympathy."60 Later in the day Wilson was warmly greeted by a
                    gathering of the state's farmers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' Tomlinson Hall on East Market Street. According to a contemporary assessment,
                    the president scored a victory for Indiana's good roads movement.61
            
            As the centennial highway celebration drew to a close, Ralston and Wilson certainly must have felt a
                    sense of satisfaction and accomplishment with the day's successes. Yet it can be imagined
                    that these feelings were in no way commensurate with the gratification they experienced as the Dixie
                    Highway neared completion in the fall of 1916. Two years earlier, in a letter to the Lincoln Highway
                    Association, Wilson had expressed his hope that in the not too distant future a highway, modeled
                    after the Lincoln Highway, might link the North and South together and make "the imaginary
                    Mason and Dixon Line … once and for all a thing of the past."62 Ralston, inspired by Indianians' centennial spirit and aided by the expertise and
                    drive of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ' Carl G. Fisher, the "father of the Lincoln Highway,"
                    converted the president's hope into a reality.63
            
            In December, 1914, Fisher suggested to Ralston that he take the initiative in the creation of an
                    interstate highway extending from 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , to 
                  Miami, Florida
               . Fisher
                    explained that there were many midwestern automobile owners who would like to travel to the South
                    but found it impossible because "there is no chance for them to drive thru. 
                  
                     60 Woodrow Wilson's address, in Lindley, Indiana
                                Centennial, 303–305. The quotation is found on page 304. Although the
                            president insisted that his visit was only in the interest of good roads and of Indiana, he
                            concluded his 
                                Indianapolis
                             address with a "very solemn thought." He stated:
                            "when the great present war is over, it will be the duty of America to join with
                            the other nations of the world in some kind of a league for the maintenance of
                            peace." See ibid., 302, 309.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 13, 1916. Other factors which also contributed to highway
                            improvement were an increase in the number of automobiles and bicycles, the growth of cities
                            and towns, an advance in living standards, and the rise in the density of the rural
                            population. Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 466.
                  
                     62 Quoted in Jane Fisher, Fabulous Hoosier: A Story of
                                American Achievement (
                                New York
                            , 1947), 91.
                  
                     63 For a detailed description of Carl G. Fisher's efforts on
                            behalf of the Lincoln Highway, see ibid., 79–91. Much of the
                            evidence connecting the good roads movement in general and the Dixie Highway project in
                            particular to the centennial observance is implicit. The author feels, however, that
                            Ralston, by accurately assessing the temper of the times, used the interest in the
                            centennial to promote highway improvement.
               
                     The roads in 
                        Tennessee
                     and some parts of 
                        Georgia
                     are simply Hell. …" Arguing in dollars and cents, he contended that
                    if a thoroughfare were built the states of 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                  Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee
               ,
                    and 
                        Georgia
                     would all profit. A Dixie Highway, he stated, would "do more good for the
                    South than if they should get ten cents for their cotton," and it would "mean
                    hundreds of millions of dollars to Indiana in the next twenty-five years."64
            
            Inspired by Fisher's letter, Ralston acted promptly. He invited the governors of the
                    designated states to meet in 
                  Chattanooga, Tennessee
               , to consider the construction of an
                    interstate highway that would be "an ever strengthening bond of unity" between the
                    North and South.65 When the conference convened on April 3, 1915, all the
                    governors—as well as numerous representatives of good roads associations and commercial
                    clubs—were present and eager to support the enterprise. President Wilson, for his part,
                    sent a telegram of congratulations "upon the inauguration … of the Dixie highway
                    project" and promised to "watch its progress … with the greatest
                        interest."66
            
            In the opening session of the conference Ralston welcomed his fellow governors to 
                        Chattanooga
                     and applauded the good roads movement for its work on behalf of improved transportation
                    and communication. "A road," he remarked, "is a tie that binds, and the
                    better and longer the road the more far-reaching is its binding and brother-making power."
                    He said too that he liked to think of the proposed Dixie Highway "as an advance agent of
                    social intercourse, mutual understanding, and national unity and good will. …"
                    In conclusion, he asserted that the Dixie Highway must be built, for only a completed road uniting
                    North and South would "prove a blessing to unborn generations and stand as an epoch in
                    American history."67
            
            Responding to Ralston's address, the governors pledged their support in a resolution to
                    appoint two representatives from their home states to meet and select the exact route for 
                  
                     64 Carl G. Fisher to Ralston, December 4, 1914, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     65 See, for example, Ralston's invitation to Governor Edward
                            F. Dunne of 
                                Illinois
                            , December 11, 1914, Ralston Papers.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 4, 1915.
                  
                     67 Ralston address, April 3, 1915, Ralston Papers.
               
                     the new highway.68 On April 13, 1915,
                    following Ralston's appointment of Fisher and Taggart to the board of directors of the
                    Dixie Highway Association,69 the Republican 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune issued a firm protest. Fearful that the new road would bypass 
                        South Bend
                    , it criticized the governor for choosing two residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .70 Ralston, who was absolutely determined that nothing would
                    jeopardize the construction of "this great highway," refused to ignore the Tribune's, complaint. In a spirited statement Ralston reiterated his
                    feelings regarding the construction of the Dixie Highway and defended his appointment of Fisher and
                    Taggart. He contended that there was good reason why two 
                        Indianapolis
                     men were chosen: "it is conceded by all parties," he argued, that 
                        Indianapolis
                     is "the one Indiana city that the road will certainly touch." And if
                    anyone doubted the capabilities of either man, the governor testified to their qualifications. He
                    recalled Fisher's experience as builder of the Lincoln Highway and Taggart's
                    service as chairman of a 1914 state highway commission appointed by Ralston to study road conditions
                    in Indiana. The governor maintained that both men were "well-poised, broad-gauged
                    businessmen, who have, in more than one instance, shown their willingness to surrender their
                    personal interests to the public welfare." In conclusion, he rebuked the Tribune for its "premature criticisms" and asked rhetorically if it had
                    objected "to the Republicans, a few years ago, taking both 
                        United States
                     senators from 
                        Indianapolis
                    ?"71
            
            Aside from the Tribune and some of its readers, Hoosiers responded enthusiastically
                    to the whole Dixie Highway movement. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star considered Indiana "fortunate in having two commissioners
                    … capable of representing the state with credit" and reported that, while no
                    other good roads scheme had created half as much interest, the Dixie Highway project had
                    "taken like wildfire."72 Taggart himself was startled by the
                    excitement that followed him to and from the final directors' conference in 
                        Chattanooga
                    . "It's a 
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 4, 1915.
                  
                     69 Ralston's Dixie Highway appointments, April 7, 1915,
                            Ralston Papers.
                  
                     70
                            
                                South Bend
                            
                            Tribune, April 13, 1915.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 16, 1915.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., May 14, 1915.
               
                     great project," he declared, "and
                    it's bound to succeed. I never attended a meeting—not even a political
                    convention—at which so much enthusiasm was shown."73
                    Ralston, however, did not seem surprised. He had accurately judged the temper of the times. In 1915
                    and 1916 Indianians were exuberant with state pride, and they were not easily influenced by
                    arguments of a parochial or partisan nature.
            The Dixie Highway movement received warm support in other states as well. Thus, when the directors
                    met they decided "to run the road everywhere."74 Instead of
                    one well defined route extending directly from 
                        Chicago
                     to Miami, the highway association consented to the creation of two routes diverging and
                    coming together at various points along the way.75 Road construction was rapid;
                    within a year, one of the last barriers—the 
                        Nashville
                    -
                        Chattanooga
                     link—was nearly completed.76 Then in September, 1916,
                    Ralston and Fisher attended a lively celebration in 
                        Martinsville
                    , Indiana, which signaled the opening of the Dixie Highway from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Miami.77
            
            Good roads, state parks, ceremonial pageants, memorial markers, and historical publications were all
                    inspired by an "outburst of patriotic interest in Indiana and its history." At the
                    year's end the county chairmen were asked what were "the most helpful and
                    permanent results" of the centennial celebration by the Indiana Historical Commission. They
                    responded that the state's hundredth year anniversary had awakened a sense of community
                    spirit and consciousness and had aroused a new interest in state and local history.78
            
            The year 1916 certainly marked a unique occasion in Indiana's history. According to Ralston,
                    "never before … 
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., May 24, 1915.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., May 23, 1915.
                  
                     75 Leaving 
                                Chicago
                            , the route led to 
                                Indianapolis
                             by way of 
                                Chicago
                             Heights and 
                        Danville, Illinois
                     . The east route from 
                                Indianapolis
                             ran through 
                                Dayton
                             and 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio; Lexington, Kentucky; Cumberland Gap, Knoxville
                     , Kingston, Rockwood, and 
                        Dayton, Tennessee
                     . And the west route ran from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to 
                                Chattanooga
                             by way of 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , and 
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     . Ibid.
                  
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 4, 1916. The Dixie Highway was financed through state taxes,
                            bonds issued by counties through which the highway ran, and contributions from automobile
                            manufacturers and dealers. Carl G. Fisher to Ralston, April 9, 17, 1915, Ralston Papers; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 24, May 14, 1915; Phillips, Indiana in
                            Transition, 264–69.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, September 16, 1916.
                  
                     78 Lindley, Indiana Centennial, 63.
               
                     was Indiana prouder of … its place … in
                    the galaxy of American states" than during the centennial year.79 The
                    anniversary celebrations and the permanent memorials were appropriate commemoratives of Hoosier
                    pride in their past achievements and in their future ambitions. As governor, Ralston served the
                    state well. Not only did he preside over a myriad of centennial observances, but he actively
                    encouraged and endorsed the passage of reform legislation, the beginning of a state system of parks,
                    and the construction of improved local and interstate highways. Under Ralston's leadership
                    and during its hundredth year anniversary, Indiana unquestionably took its place among the
                    nation's progressive states.
            
               
                  79 Ralston address, October 3, 1916, Ralston Papers.
            
            
               Reproduced from Harlow Lindley, ed., The Indiana Centennial, 1916: A Record of the
                            Celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of Indiana's Admission to
                        Statehood (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1919), 342.
            
         
         
         
            National Register of Historic Places: Indiana Roster through 1974
            Compiled by Eric Gilbertson*
            
            The National Register of Historic Places is a list of districts, sites, buildings, and structures
                    that have significance in American national, state, or local heritage and have been designated as
                    worth preservation.
            
                    The quality of significance in American history, architecture, archeology, and culture is present
                        in districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects that possess integrity of location,
                        design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, and association, and: (A) that are associated
                        with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history; or
                        (B) that are associated with the lives of persons significant in the past; or (C) that embody
                        the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction, or that represent
                        the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a significant and
                        distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or (D) that have
                        yielded or may be likely to yield, information important in history or pre-history.1
               
                
            Items nominated for the National Register of Historic Places are initially evaluated by the State
                    Review Board for Historic Preservation which is chaired by Joseph D. Cloud, director of the Indiana
                    Department of Natural Resources and appointed by the governor as state historic preservation
                        officer.2 After approval by the state board the applications 
                  
                     * Eric Gilbertson is assistant state historic preservation
                            officer, Department of Natural Resources, State of Indiana, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1
                            How to Complete National Register Forms (National Register
                                Program, Vol. II; 
                                Washington
                            , 1975), 2. This booklet is published by the National Register of Historic
                            Places, Office of Archeology and Historic Preservation, National Park Service, U.S.
                            Department of the Interior.
                  
                     2 Other members of the state review board are: Donald F. Carmony,
                            professor of history, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; H. Roll McLaughlin, president, James Associates, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; James H. Kellar, director, Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; and Herbert R. Hill, director, Bureau of Public Information, Indiana
                            Department of Natural Resources, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     are signed by the state historic preservation officer and
                    forwarded to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., for final review by the staff of the National Register of Historic Places.
            The following is a list of those districts, sites, buildings, and structures in Indiana which had
                    been enrolled and were on the National Register as of December 31, 1974. One asterisk indicates that
                    the property is a state memorial or that the historic district includes a state memorial; two
                    asterisks indicate that the site is designated as a National Historic Landmark; and three indicate
                    that the property is both. The date of acceptance is given in parentheses except for items
                    designated as National Historic Landmarks prior to 1966. The editor of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History and Eric Gilbertson, assistant state historic preservation officer,
                    would appreciate information about apparent omissions or possible errors.
            
               
                  
                            Adams County
                        : 
                     
                        *
                        Gene Stratton Porter Cabin
                                (Limberlost Cabin), 200 East Sixth Street, 
                                    Geneva
                                , (6–27–74).
                  
               
               
                  
                            Allen County
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     City Hall, 308 East Berry Street, 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , (6–4–73).
                     
                        Johnny Appleseed Memorial Park, in 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , ca. 4 mile south of Coliseum Boulevard (U.S. 30 Bypass) on east side of
                                Parnell Avenue (3800 block). (1–17–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Brown county
                        : 
                     
                        *
                        Theodore Clement Steele House and
                                Studio, southwest of 
                                    Nashville
                                 near Indiana 46 in Yellowwood State Forest,
                                (10–2–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Clark County
                        : 
                     
                        Borden Institute, West Street, Borden,
                                (6–13–73).
                     
                        Old Clarksville Site, Clarksville, original town site at Silver
                                Creek and the Ohio River, (12–16–74).
                     
                        Howard Home, 1101 East Market Street, 
                                    Jeffersonville
                                . (7–5–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Dearborn county
                        : 
                     
                        Hillforest (Forest Hill), 213 Fifth Street, 
                                    Aurora
                                , (8–5–71).
                     
                        Veraestau, ca. 1 mile south of 
                                    Aurora
                                 on Indiana 56. (4–11–73).
                  
                    
               
               
                  
                            Decatur county
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Decatur county
                                     Courthouse, Courthouse Square, 
                                    Greensburg
                                , (4–27–73).
                  
                    
               De Kalb County: 
                     
                        William Cornell Homestead, southwest of 
                                    Auburn
                                 off Indiana 427 on Cedar Chapel Road,
                            (8–14–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Fayette county
                        : 
                     
                        Canal House, 111 East Fourth Street, 
                                    Connersville
                                , (7–16–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Floyd County
                        : 
                     
                        Culbertson Mansion, 914 East Main Street, 
                                    New Albany
                                , 6–28–74).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Franklin county
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Franklin county
                                     Seminary, 412 Fifth Street, 
                                    Brookville
                                , (3–28–74).
                     
                        *
                        Whitewater Canal Historic District,
                                from Laurel Feeder Dam to 
                                    Brookville
                                 via Metamora, (6–13–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Harrison County
                        : 
                     
                        *
                        Corydon Historic District, Corydon,
                                (8–28–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Howard County
                        : 
                     
                        Seiberling Mansion, 1200 West Sycamore Street, 
                                    Kokomo
                                , (12–16–71).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Jasper county
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        St. Joseph
                                    's Indian Normal School, 
                                    St. Joseph
                                's College campus off U.S. 231, 
                                    Rensselaer
                                , (6–19–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Jefferson County
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Jefferson County
                                     Jail, corner of Main and Walnut streets, 
                                    Madison
                                , (6–18–73).
                     
                        *
                        
                           
                                        Madison
                                     Historic District, 
                                    Madison
                                , (5–25–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Knox county
                        : 
                     
                        **
                        George Rogers Clark National
                                    Historical Park, 
                                    Vincennes
                                .
                     
                        **
                        William Henry Harrison Home
                                    (Grouseland), 3 West Scott Street, 
                                    Vincennes
                                .
                     
                        *
                        Old State Bank, North Second Street, 
                                    Vincennes
                                , (10–9–74).
                     
                        *
                        Territorial Capitol of Former Indiana
                                    Territory, bounded by Harrison, First, Scott, and Park streets, 
                                    Vincennes
                                , (7–2–73).
                     
                        
                           
                                        Vincennes
                                     Historic District, roughly bounded by the Wabash
                                River, College Avenue, Eleventh Street, and Willow Street, 
                                    Vincennes
                                , (12–31–74).
                  
                    
               
               
                  
                            Lake County
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Lake County
                                     Courthouse, Public Square, 
                                    Crown Point
                                , (5–17–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            La Porte county
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Michigan
                                     City Lighthouse, 
                                    Washington
                                 Park, 
                                    Michigan
                                 City, (11–5–74).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Madison county
                        : 
                     
                        Mounds State Park, 3 miles east of Anderson on State Road 32,
                                (1–18–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Marion county
                        : 
                     
                        Allison Mansion, 3200 Cold Spring Road, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (12–8–70).
                     
                        The Athenaeum, 401 
                                    East Michigan
                                 Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (2–21–73).
                     
                        L. S. Ayres Annex Warehouse (14–22 Elliott's
                                Block), 
                                    Maryland
                                 Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (2–23–73).
                     
                        
                           
                                        Benton
                                     House, 312 South Downey Avenue, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (3–20–73).
                     
                        Christ Church Cathedral, 131 Monument Circle, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (7–10–73).
                     
                        City Market, 222 East Market Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (3–27–74).
                     
                        
                           Crown Hill Cemetery, 3402 Boulevard Place, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (2–28–73).
                     
                        **
                        Benjamin Harrison Home,
                                1204 North 
                                    Delaware
                                 Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                .
                     
                        
                           
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Union Railroad Station, 39 Jackson Place, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (7–19–74).
                     
                        Indiana State Museum, 202 North 
                                    Alabama
                                 Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (10–29–74).
                     
                        Lockerbie Square Historic District, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (2–23–73).
                     
                        
                           
                                        Michigan
                                     Road Toll House, 4702 
                                    Michigan
                                 Road, Northwest, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (8–7–74).
                     
                        Military Park, bounded on the west by 
                                    Blackford
                                 Street, on the north by 
                                    New York
                                 Street, on the east by West Street, and on the south by the canal, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (10–28–69).
                     
                        Morris-
                                        Butler
                                     House, 1204 North Park Avenue, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (2–20–73).
                     
                        Old Pathology Building, 3000 
                                    West Washington
                                 Street, Central State Hospital, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (4–25–72).
                     
                     
                        The Propylaeum, 1410 North 
                                    Delaware
                                 Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (6–19–73).
                     
                        **
                        James Whitcomb Riley
                                House, 528 Lockerbie Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                .
                     
                        State Soldiers and Sailors Monument, Monument Circle, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (2–23–73).
                     
                        U.S. Courthouse and Post Office, 46 East 
                                    Ohio
                                 Street, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (1–11–74).
                     
                        Woodruff Place Historic District, 1700–2000 
                                    East Michigan
                                 and East Tenth streets (500–1000 North), 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , (7–31–72).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Monroe county
                        : 
                     
                        Daniel Stout House (Old Stone House) near 
                                    Bloomington
                                , west from Indiana 37 a short distance on Indiana 46, right on Maple Grove
                                Road to first stone house on left, (11–30–73).
                  
                    
               Noble County: 
                     
                        *
                        Gene Stratton Porter Cabin,
                                southeast of 
                                    Rome
                                 City off Indiana 9, (6–27–74).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Orange county
                        : 
                     
                        West Baden Springs Hotel (Northwood Institute of Indiana), west of
                                Indiana 56, West Baden, (6–27–74).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Parke County
                        : 
                     
                        Lusk Home and Mill Site, 
                                    Turkey
                                 Run State Park, Marshall, (10–29–74).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Porter County
                        : 
                     
                        **
                        Joseph Bailly Homestead,
                                .5 mile west of Porter on U.S. 20.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Posey County
                        : 
                     
                        Mann Site, east of 
                                    Mt. Vernon
                                , (10–1–74).
                     
                        ***
                        
                           
                                        New Harmony
                                     Historic District, Main Street between Granary and Church streets, 
                                    New Harmony
                                .
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Rush County
                        : 
                     
                        Melodeon Hall, 210 North Morgan Street, 
                                    Rushville
                                , (11–15–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            St. Joseph county
                        : 
                     
                        Beiger House, 317 Lincolnway East, 
                                    Mishawaka
                                , (8–28–73).
                     
                        Joseph D. Oliver House (Copshaholm), 808 
                                    West Washington
                                 Avenue, 
                                    South Bend
                                , (8–28–73).
                     
                     
                        Old Courthouse (Second 
                                        St. Joseph county
                                     Courthouse), 112 
                                    South Lafayette
                                 Road, 
                                    South Bend
                                , (9–4–70).
                     
                        
                           
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     Place (Studebaker House), 620 
                                    West Washington
                                 Avenue, 
                                    South Bend
                                , (7–2–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Spencer county
                        : 
                     
                        **
                        Lincoln Boyhood National
                                    Memorial, 
                                    Lincoln City
                                .
                     
                        
                           
                                        Brown
                                    -Kercheval House, 315 South Second Street, 
                                    Rockport
                                , (9–20–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Switzerland
                         County: 
                     
                        Eggleston House, 306 West Main Street, 
                                    Vevay
                                , (10–15–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Tippecanoe county
                        : 
                     
                        Moses Fowler House, Tenth and South streets, 
                                    Lafayette
                                , (8–5–71).
                     
                        
                           
                                        Tippecanoe county
                                     Courthouse, Public Square, 
                                    Lafayette
                                , (10–31–72).
                     
                        Fort Ouiatenon, 4 miles southwest of 
                                    Lafayette
                                , (2–16–70).
                     
                        Indiana State Soldiers Home Historic District, north of 
                                    Lafayette
                                 off Indiana 43, (1–2–74).
                     
                        **
                        
                           
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     Battlefield, 7 miles northeast of 
                                    Lafayette
                                 on Indiana 225.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Vanderburgh county
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Evansville
                                     Post Office, 100 block northwest Second Street, 
                                    Evansville
                                , (8–7–71).
                     
                        Former 
                                        Vanderburgh county
                                     Sheriff's Residence, Fourth Street between Vine and Court
                                streets, 
                                    Evansville
                                , (10–6–70).
                     
                        
                           
                                        Old Vanderburgh county
                                     Courthouse, entire block bounded by Vine, Fourth, Court, and Fifth
                                streets, 
                                    Evansville
                                , (9–4–70).
                     
                        John Augustus Reitz House, 224 Southeast First Street, 
                                    Evansville
                                , (10–15–73).
                     
                        Willard Library, 21 First Avenue, 
                                    Evansville
                                , (9–28–72).
                     
                        ***
                                Angel Mounds, east of 
                                    Evansville
                                .
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Vigo County
                        : 
                     
                        Condit House, 629 Mulberry Street, Indiana State University campus, 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , (4–2–73).
                     
                        **
                        Eugene V. Debs Home, 451
                                North Eighth Street, 
                                    Terre Haute
                                .
                     
                        Paul Dresser Birthplace, northwest corner of First and Farrington
                                streets in 
                                    Fairbanks
                                 Park, 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , (1–22–73).
                     
                     
                        Sage-Robinson-Nagel House, 1411 South Sixth Street, 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , (4–11–73).
                     
                        Branch of State Bank of Indiana (Memorial Hall), 219 
                                    Ohio
                                 Street, 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , (10–25–73).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Warrick county
                        : 
                     
                        Roberts-Morton House (Old Stone House), 1.5 miles east of 
                                    Newburgh
                                 on Indiana 662, (12–30–74).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Washington county
                        : 
                     
                        Hay-Morrison House, 106 South College Avenue, 
                                    Salem
                                , (10–26–71).
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Wayne county
                        : 
                     
                        
                           
                                        Centerville
                                     Historic District, bounded on the north by the corporation line,
                                on the east by Third Street, on the south by South Street, and on the west by Willow
                                Grove Road, 
                                    Centerville
                                , (10–26–71).
                     
                        ***
                        Levi Coffin
                                House, 115 North Main Street, 
                                    Fountain
                                 City.
                     
                        
                           
                                        Old Richmond
                                     Historic District, roughly bounded by C & O Railroad,
                                South Eleventh, South A streets, and alley south of South E Street, 
                                    Richmond
                                , (6–28–74).
                     
                        Starr Historic District, roughly bounded by North E, North A, North
                                Sixteenth streets, and alley west of North Tenth Street, 
                                    Richmond
                                , (6–28–74).
                  
                    
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Progress After Statehood: A Book of Readings. Compiled by Pamela J. Bennett and
                    Shirley S. McCord. Indiana Historical Collections, Volume XLIX. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1974. Pp. xi, 570. Notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $7.50; paperbound, $5.00.)
            The Indiana Historical Bureau in recent years has maintained a most active and impressive publication
                    program. Many excellent books, including the five volume History of Indiana
                    currently underway in cooperation with the Indiana Historical Society, have appeared. In some
                    respects Progress After Statehood is a companion reader to the five volume set;
                    standing alone, it is a valuable and useful sampling of the raw materials of
                    nearly sixteen decades of Indiana history. The editors have combed a broad range of materials from
                    which to make their selections; the basic shortcomings are insufficient editorial introductions to
                    each of a dozen topical groupings and almost no textual explanations. The twelve introductions vary
                    in length from four lines to barely more than a page; the only footnotes in the book, with two or
                    three exceptions, identify selection sources.
            These sources, for the most part primary materials such as organizational proceedings, governmental
                    reports, newspaper articles and editorials, and the complete texts of a few significant state laws,
                    include a limited number of secondary accounts from historical journals and monographs. The broad
                    and well handled topics of "reform and reformers" and "transportation and
                    travel" are given the most extensive treatment; the shortest sections are on
                    "health and medicine," "
                        Indianapolis
                    ," and "women," with some items in the latter two categories
                    discussing such recent developments as UNIGOV and the Equal Rights Amendment. The other topics
                    covered are agriculture, business, education, military affairs, natural resources (an especially
                    valuable section), Negroes, and politics. In some cases the selections seem happenstance; they are
                    not related to one another in developing themes; indeed, given the minimal editorial comment, some
                    passages raise as many questions as they answer. Yet the editors' purposes encompassed
                    illustrating the "vast resources available for Indiana history" (p. v), and in
                    this they have succeeded admirably.
            Perhaps the most valuable items reprinted here, and certainly the most elusive, are newspaper
                    articles and editorials  revealing Indiana attitudes on issues
                    of the day such as free public schools, Negro rights, war and peace, and the Hoosier self image.
                    Although any reader could quarrel with some selections and regret the omission of
                    others—there is, for example, nothing on Indiana writers and artists, and the treatment
                    of both education and politics since the 1940s is disappointingly thin—it would be
                    difficult to improve upon them within the same space limitations.
            How can such a book be used? Obviously not suited for the secondary or even the college level
                    classroom as a supplementary text, the volume can nevertheless be consulted with profit by both
                    professional and lay students and by teachers of Indiana history. A helpful beginning point for
                    research into any of the twelve topics covered, the book may have its greatest use as a companion
                    volume to general state histories to give insight and particularity to material under discussion.
                        Progress After Statehood complements well but does not supplant the older Readings in Indiana History (1914), which emphasizes events prior to 1850, and
                    overall is a credit to its editors and publisher. Finally, given today's marketplace, the
                    book's moderate price makes it a genuine bargain.
            
               Indiana University - Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Ralph D. Gray
         
         
            
               A 
                            Michigan
                         Reader, 11,000 B.C. to A.D. 1865. Edited by George S. May and Herbert J.
                    Brinks. (Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1974. Notes. Paperbound,
                    $4.95.)
            
               A 
                            Michigan
                         Reader, 1865 to the Present. Edited by Robert M. Warner and C. Warren Vander
                    Hill. (Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1974. Pp. x, 319. Notes. Paperbound,
                    $4.95.)
            Teachers of 
                        United States
                     history have a wide variety of supplemental readings for their classes; most teachers
                    of state and local history have no such riches. Though the editors of these two volumes disclaim any
                    pretense of solving this problem for teachers of 
                        Michigan
                     history, they do attempt to "provide in convenient form a modest selection of
                    articles from a wide variety of sources" (Warner and Vander Hill, p. xi) on the history of 
                        Michigan
                     from the Indian era to the present.
            
            Of necessity, the readings in the two volumes are diverse and heterogeneous. Wisely, the editors
                    arrange the selections by topics within broad chronological periods. Yet, in an interpretive
                    foreword, Bruce Catton suggests an alternative pattern of organization for 
                        Michigan
                     history. Evoking boyhood memories, Catton writes of his beloved North Country, the area
                    north of 
                        Bay City
                    , which is "old, half empty, touched by the cold winds that drift down from the
                    Arctic, with trees and sand and crystal-clear water and drowsy small towns. …"
                    Only grudgingly does Catton acknowledge the existence of 
                        Detroit
                     and other southern industrial centers, claiming that "
                        Detroit
                    , after all, is not really 
                        Michigan
                    " (May and Brinks, p. 6).
            Most selections in the two volumes are descriptions by contemporaries of Catton's
                    "two Michigans." In the early days 
                        Michigan
                     was all North Country, the haunt of the Indians, fur traders, missionaries, and
                    soldiers. The French did little to transform this area, though French cultural influences lingered
                    in 
                        Detroit
                     into the twentieth century. Little development occurred during the short British
                    period, 1761 to 1796, a period marked by Indian conflict and the American Revolution. The
                    transformation of the North Country did not begin until the American phase of 
                        Michigan
                     history. The period prior to the Civil War encompassed frontier settlement and the
                    beginning of exploitation of such natural resources as timber, iron, copper, and fish.
                    Unfortunately, Edward Tiffin's famous, albeit inaccurate, report of 1815, which concluded
                    that 
                        Michigan
                     was not worth surveying, much less settling, is not included. Nor is there any
                    selection indicating the significance of the Erie Canal in the development of 
                        Michigan
                    .
            The second volume describes such important features of the last third of the nineteenth century in 
                        Michigan
                     as the lumber industry, immigration, and the business oriented state government. Around
                    the turn of the century Governors Hazen Pingree and Chase Osborn helped 
                        Michigan
                     politics escape from the domination of lumber barons and railroad men. Another
                    important theme in the second volume is the transformation of much of southern 
                        Michigan
                     from North Country to industrial complex: the automobile industry originated early in
                    the twentieth century, and big labor organized some thirty years later. Thus arose the major forces
                         that still influence economics and politics in the state.
                    The selections are particularly good in depicting the struggle between the United Automobile Workers
                    and the automobile companies in the sitdown strikes of the 1930s.
            In addition, the editors extensively, and honestly, portray social aspects of 
                        Michigan
                     which are as disparate as the Ku Klux Klan and "The Spirit of
                    Interlochen" by Van Cliburn. Perhaps farthest removed from 
                        Michigan
                    's North Country is the final selection; Malcom X's "Growing
                    Up in 
                        Michigan
                    " vividly depicts a particular hell, near Lansing, which was his boyhood home
                    around 1930.
            The authors of the selections include many famous and/or capable authorities ranging from Father
                    Louis Hennepin to Alexis de Tocqueville, from Francis Parkman to Sidney Fine. Each selection is
                    introduced with a headnote providing provenance for the writing which follows and also including
                    excellent, brief, current bibliographical references for the topic. The editors and publisher should
                    be pleased with their work; reachers and teachers in 
                        Michigan
                     history certainly will be.
            
               Central 
                            Michigan
                         University, Mount Pleasant George M. Blackburn
         
         
            
               Farming in the Midwest, 1840–1900. Edited by James W. Whitaker. (
                        Washington
                    : The Agricultural History Society, 1974. Pp. 226. Notes, tables, index.
                    $6.00.)
            
               Farming in the Midwest, 1840–1900, edited by James W. Whitaker, is a
                    compilation of papers presented at the Symposium on Midwest Agriculture, 1840–1900, and
                    held at 
                        Iowa
                     State University in May, 1973. Published by the Agricultural Historical Society, it is
                    the third in a series of such publications, having been preceded by The Structure of
                        the Cotton Economy of the Antebellum South (1970) and by Farming in the New
                        Nation: Interpreting American Agriculture, 1790–1840 (1972).
            The papers included in the present volume were written by geographers, agronomists, and economists as
                    well as historians; and, as is to be expected in such a collection, they are of unequal merit and
                    interest. Some of the papers are only distantly related to farming in the Midwest; others appear to
                    be less significant than the accompanying remarks  of those who
                    commented upon them. And at least one paper contained enough undigested material to prompt the
                    commentator to ask: "What is the object of this historical study" (p. 199)?
            Nevertheless, the volume does contain interesting and valuable essays which may be roughly divided
                    into five broad topics: the geographical aspects of historical farms and rural settlement; the work
                    of agricultural experiment stations in the Midwest; the private acquisition of land and tenant
                    farming in the area; the costs of midwestern farm making and the investments of foreign companies in
                    farm mortgages and land; and the farmers' relationship to commodity exchanges.
            Historians of the area will find interesting suggestions in Hildegaard Johnson's paper,
                    "A Historical Perspective on Form and Function in Upper Midwest Rural Settlement,"
                    and in John A. Jakle's comment on the paper in which the relationship between human value
                    systems and the appearance of the landscape is discussed. More intriguing, perhaps, is "A
                    Sample of Rural Households Selected from the 1860 Manuscript Censuses" by Fred Bateman and
                    James D. Foust. This essay, which contains a discussion of the compilation of the 1860 data on the
                    agricultural experience of 11,943 farms in twenty northern states both east and west,
                    "opens up" according to the authors, "completely new possibilities for
                    examining the character of the rural antebellum North" (p. 93). And, indeed, another paper
                    in the collection on "Farm-Making Costs in the 1850s," by Robert E. Ankli, has
                    already made use of the new material. Using the data compiled in the sample, Ankli attempts to
                    disprove the proposition, first advanced by Charles Danhof in 1941 and since generally accepted,
                    that it took $1,000 to build a farm on the western prairies.
            Paul Gates indicates what remains to be done in the study of the public domain in a paper entitled
                    "Research in the History of the Public Lands," and two papers, one by Donald
                    Winters and the other by Homer Socolofsky, deal with aspects of tenant farms in the Midwest.
                    Winters' paper discusses the variety of rental lease agreements made between tenants and
                    landlords and suggests that farm tenancy developed out of "rational economic
                    behavior" (p. 147) rather than from poorly conceived federal land policies as others have
                    held. In a less analytical paper Socolofsky traces  the land
                    holdings and the career of William Scully, one of the great landlords of the Midwest and a
                    fascinating character.
            Papers on the varieties of corn and wheat developed by midwestern agricultural stations and an
                    interesting paper on the "Commodity Exchanges, Agrarian ‘Political
                    Power’ and the Antioption Battle, 1890–1894," by Jonathan Lurie,
                    round out the most important offerings in this useful volume, which is, as the editor acknowledges,
                    by no means the definitive work on the subject of farming in the Midwest during the last half of the
                    nineteenth century.
            
               The University of 
                            Texas
                        , El Paso Wayne E. Fuller
         
         
            
               And They All Sang Hallelujah: Plain-Folk Camp-Meeting Religion,
                    1800–1845. By Dickson D. Bruce, Jr. (
                        Knoxville
                    : The University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1974. Pp. xii, 155. Notes, maps, illustrations, bibliography, indexes.
                    $7.50.)
            In the last paragraph of his introduction Bruce succinctly states what he is attempting to accomplish
                    in his book: 
                        This study begins with the context in which camp-meeting religion grew up and flowered:
                            first, with a description of plain-folk life and an interpretation of their place in the
                            Southern world; second, with an account of the Methodist and Baptist churches as Southern
                            institutions and of the camp-meeting as a practice. Once the context of camp-meeting
                            religion has been described, it then becomes possible to set out the contents of the
                            plain-folk religious belief system. To do this, there is an examination of the structure and
                            content of the camp-meeting and its relationship to the central purpose of Southern
                            evangelical religion, conversion. Then the study turns to the spiritual songs in order to
                            outline what most of those who were converted proclaimed their salvation to mean. Finally,
                            the study comes full circle to examine again the plain-folk and their lives, but at that
                            point to see what camp-meeting religion did for those who gave themselves over to it (p.
                            12).
                    
            
            Generally, Bruce does a good job of accomplishing the goals which are outlined in his introduction.
                    His description of plain folk life and his interpretation of its role in the southern world is
                    generally accurate. However, considering the political activity of the plain folk which contributed
                    to the democratizing of southern state governments during the first  half of the nineteenth century, Bruce is on somewhat shaky ground when
                    he says: "they were nevertheless outside the political and economic processes of the
                    South" (p. 123).
            In describing the camp meeting and the conversion experience, Bruce gives one of the most thorough
                    and objective accounts that this reviewer has read. He also gives an in depth discussion of the
                    religious concepts which are present in the spiritual choruses. In the last chapter, in which Bruce
                    discusses the benefits which the frontier people derived from camp meetings, one especially receives
                    the impression that the author is very careful to give a detached appraisal.
            Overall, Bruce has made a significant contribution in his examination of the role of the camp meeting
                    experience in southern frontier life. Not only is the study historical, but it is sociological and
                    psychological as well. Except for the one point in interpretation noted above, this work is
                    impressive in its accuracy and comprehensiveness. And They All Sang Hallelujah is
                    the most compact, thorough, and objective study on the role and nature of the camp meeting on the
                    southern frontier that this reviewer has seen. Winner of the first James Mooney Award, sponsored by
                    the Southern Anthropological Society, this book would be a most valuable addition to all college and
                    secondary school libraries.
            
               
                  
                            Arkansas
                         Polytechnic College, 
                            Russellville
                        
                Kenneth R. Walker
         
         
            
               Nauvoo: The City of Joseph. By David E. Miller and Delia S. Miller. (Santa
                    Barbara: Peregrine Smith, Inc., 1974. Pp. xiii, 264. Illustrations, footnotes, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            After devastating defeat in the "Mormon War" of 1838 in 
                        Missouri
                    , the Mormons fled to 
                        Illinois
                     and purchased land in 
                        Hancock county
                    , moving there in 1839. A tiny town located on their land was renamed Nauvoo and
                    appointed as the new place for the Mormon "gathering." Soon the home not only of
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     refugees but of Saints from all parts of the 
                        United States
                     and from 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        England
                    , this town grew so rapidly that it became, for a brief period, the largest city in 
                        Illinois
                    . It failed to survive as the center of the Mormon world, however. When revolutionary
                    doctrines of the Latter  Day Saints such as polygamy and the
                    political organization of the Mormon Kingdom of God were put into practice, they created a schism
                    within the Mormon community. This break in the unity of the group precipitated the destruction of
                    political and legal barriers which, until that time, had protected the Mormon metropolis from the
                    hostility of outsiders. Joseph Smith, the prophet, was murdered in 1844, and two years of guerrilla
                    warfare ensued. Faced with a renewal of general conflict, the Mormons abandoned Nauvoo, streaming
                    away in all directions: north, east, and south, as well as west.
            Although several attempts were made to utilize the land and improvements the Saints left behind,
                    Nauvoo ceased being a city even more quickly than it had become one. For almost a century it had a
                    quiet and uneventful existence, differing from neighboring towns mainly by virtue of its stormy
                    past. Then the Saints returned. They set about rebuilding their 
                        Illinois
                     "Zion" and in the years since have carried out so many elaborate
                    restoration projects that the once deserted town has become an important museum of the history of
                    the Latter Day Saints and of midnineteenth century America. Accelerating interest in Nauvoo has
                    created a "demand for a brief but factual history of the city" (p. v), and in
                    response to this demand David and Delia Miller have reworked—by revising and abridging
                    it—the historical survey which Professor Miller conducted for the National Park Service
                    ten years ago.
            In much the same way that tourists are ushered from one carefully restored room to another in Nauvoo
                    buildings, the Millers' narrative takes the reader on a hurried tour through Mormon history
                    from 1839 to 1847. With maps and pictures provided as reference points, the historical events are
                    set in order and exhibited in proper chronological place. Though one must turn to the appendix to
                    find it, a section on pre-Mormon Nauvoo sets the scene, and a final chapter explains what happened
                    to the town after the Saints left and describes its recent rebuilding. The outcome is an attractive
                    historical guidebook and an adequate chronicle, but it is not a satisfactory history of Nauvoo.
            The authors worked with evidence drawn from an astonishingly limited number of primary sources and
                    apparently only consulted a scattered assortment of the substantial body  of secondary works on the subject. But insufficient research is not the
                    main reason the book is unsatisfactory. Brevity is not its major problem either. The difficulty is
                    conceptual; the raw material of Nauvoo history is all there, but the authors fail to see it. Their
                    narrow conception of the 
                        Illinois
                     portion of the Mormon past as an "epoch in American frontier history"
                    (p. v) leads to a superficial account which describes surface motivations, emphasizes political and
                    economic explanations, neglects the religious dimension of the Nauvoo experience, and almost
                    entirely ignores the social and religious radicalism of the Saints. Tourists will find it useful;
                    those with anything more than a casual interest in Mormon history should look elsewhere for
                    information about the City of Joseph.
            
               Indiana University - Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Jan Shipps
         
         
            
               The Ladies of Seneca Falls: The Birth of the Woman's Rights Movement.
                    By Miriam Gurko. (
                        New York
                    : Macmillan Publishing Co., Inc., 1974. Pp. vi, 328. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $7.95.)
            Since the emergence of a strong feminist movement in the 
                        United States
                     in the 1960s, many women have begun to look more closely at the ways in which laws,
                    socialization processes, the economy, and the mass media prevent women from achieving their full
                    potential. In The Ladies of Seneca Falls Miriam Gurko attempts to demonstrate to
                    contemporary feminists that their rebellion is not new but has clear historical antecedents in the
                    women's movement for the nineteenth century. This movement was far more than just a crusade
                    for the vote, she asserts. Against strong opposition from both men and women,
                    nineteenth century reformers fought for many of the legal and social rights still being sought
                    today.
            
               The Ladies of Seneca Falls is structured around a series of minibiographies of the
                    leading nineteenth century reformers, from the Grimké sisters and Margaret Fuller to
                    Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Lucy Stone. Gurko uses these biographical sketches to
                    illuminate the  general problems of American women in the
                    nineteenth century. For example, she describes Stanton's drive to acquire an unusually
                    broad education as a reaction to her father's belief that only a boy could bring honor and
                    distinction to the family, a conviction shared by most nineteenth century Americans.
                    Stanton's early consciousness of women's inferior status was reinforced by
                    encounters with the numerous women who came to her father's law office in a fruitless
                    search for legal redress against profligate or tyrannical husbands.
            Gurko deftly demonstrates the breadth of the nineteenth century women's movement,
                    summarizing both the ideas articulated by Mary Wollstonecraft, Fuller, and John Stuart Mill and the
                    demands for specific changes made by reformers such as Stanton, Anthony, and Stone. She recreates
                    the often overlooked split in the women's rights movement in the 1870s as the more radical
                    reformers—who asserted that all facets of society, including religion and the family,
                    needed to be overhauled—broke away from the conservatives who felt that the vote was the
                    most important object of agitation.
            
               The Ladies of Seneca Falls is aimed primarily at a popular rather than a scholarly
                    audience. The book lacks footnotes and relies heavily upon the pioneering work of Eleanor Flexner
                    and Aileen Kraditor, as well as on Stanton's own History of Woman
                    Suffrage (1881). Yet, for the reader unfamilar with recent developments in women's
                    history, Gurko offers a sympathetic, concise, and up to date summary of the fight
                    for women's rights in America from the sixteenth through the nineteenth centuries. The
                    title, The Ladies of Seneca Falls, does not do justice to the book. It offers far
                    more than a biographical overview of the women present at the Seneca Falls convention. Furthermore,
                    it makes clear the psychological tensions felt by many of the nineteenth century reformers as they
                    acted in ways considered definitely unladylike by their hostile contemporaries.
                        The Ladies of Seneca, Falls might well encourage the reader to dip back into
                    the letters, addresses, and autobiographies of the nineteenth century feminists, selections from
                    which are quoted throughout the book.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Ellen Dwyer
         
         
         
            
               Movers and Shakers: American Women Thinkers and Activists, 1900–1970.
                    By June Sochen. (
                        New York
                    : Quadrangle/The 
                        New York
                     Times Book Co., 1973. Pp. xi, 320. Notes, note on sources, index. $8.95.)
            In Movers and Shakers June Sochen has given a well documented overview of some
                    feminist writers and activists of the twentieth century. She has included material which has
                    hitherto not been available in one volume and therefore has made feminists' ideas more
                    readily accessible than in the past. Furthermore, she has shown the continuity, together with the
                    changes, in several ideologies of the period between 1910 and 1970. Sochen also successfully imparts
                    the flavor of the times by providing biographical information, thus illustrating the relationship
                    between feminists' everyday lives and their thought.
            Despite these important assets, the book lacks cohesive analysis and depth. Its organization is tied
                    to three types of feminists—"generals," "radicals,"
                    and "pragmatics"—without a definition as to how these categories are
                    clearly distinguishable. Moreover, discussion seldom leads to rigorous examination of ideas and
                    their theoretical underpinnings. For example, feminists of both the early and late periods have
                    pursued socialist principles and programs to varying degrees. Although Sochen points this out, she
                    does not analyze the overriding historical significance of why feminists have
                    sought collective activity and a resolution of the class question. Investigation and evaluation of
                    these issues are necessary, especially in assessing realistic prospects for changes in the roles and
                    status of women. Instead, Sochen ends wistfully, stating that "feminism's only
                    hope, apparently, is that human beings can produce a society made up of psychically sound people
                    …" (p. 300). No mention is made of the objective conditions that encourage
                    exploitation and domination. Conceivably, different use of the data on the family might lead to a
                    more profound conclusion than one where the "home," "Mom,"
                    "happiness," "private property," and "profit"
                    are simply manifestations of "primal and everlasting" American qualities (p. 299).
                    On the other hand, Sochen admirably focuses on feminists' inability to get away from an
                    orthodox view of motherhood, stressing that this difficulty is a major roadblock to women's
                    liberation. Throughout the book alternatives for child care are discussed.  But again Sochen does not deal with the fact that feminists'
                    rhetoric did not find a workable solution.
            The heterosexual bias of the author is surprising in view of the fact that the women's
                    movement has had to confront the ideology and practice of lesbianism, especially in its contemporary
                    phase. Only at one point does she address herself to the issue and then only in a way that
                    denigrates lesbians and portrays them as extremists, a "minority" outside the
                    specter of "healthy heterosexuality" (p. 279). Also, Sochen fails to analyze why these ideas and practices have been repressed historically or to account for
                    their recent public emergence.
            Sochen's conventionally narrow definition of legitimate womanhood also leads her to exclude
                    important black feminists, such as Mary Terrell, Ida Wells Barnett, Frances Harper, Josephine
                    Ruffin, Margaret Washington, Amy Jacques-Garvey, and Pat Robinson. Furthermore, she ignores the
                    crucial question of racism in the all white General Federation of Women's Clubs, an
                    organization she covers extensively in the "pragmatist" category.
            
               Movers and Shakers is a first step in the review of much feminist literature.
                    However, it leaves important questions unraised and unexamined. Next, a thorough and comprehensive
                    analysis is needed. When that is accomplished, feminism will no longer be seen as an isolated
                    phenomenon representing the views of a few privileged Anglo women agitators, but as symptomatic of
                    serious social problems.
            
               Santa Ana College, Santa Ana Joanne G. McKim
         
         
            
               Schools for All: The Blacks and Public Education in the South,
                    1865–1877. By William Preston Vaughn. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1974. Pp. ix, 180. Notes, bibliographical essay, index. $12.50.)
            As William Preston Vaughn says in the preface of his book, revisionist studies of the political and
                    economic history of the period from 1865 to 1877 have treated education in a cursory manner,
                    although changes in education were one of "the most vital, visible, and lasting
                    achievements of Reconstruction" (p. ix). His book, winner of a Phi Alpha Theta Award, is a
                    worthwhile contribution toward correcting this  deficiency. It
                    synthesizes much earlier research on special aspects of the subject and also embodies extensive,
                    painstaking research in a variety of primary materials. The book would have been strengthened by
                    more use of such black newspapers as are extant and other sources showing attitudes of blacks and by
                    a more in depth discussion of attitudes of both whites and blacks.
            The basic subjects covered are the beginnings of education for blacks, southern white attitudes on
                    the subject, and integration (or absence of it) in the schools of the Reconstruction years. Vaughn
                    traces the early work of private groups, notably the American Missionary Association and the
                    Freedmen's Bureau, both of which had completed their major education efforts by 1869. He
                    next examines the debates on education in the state constitutional conventions and provisions of the
                    state constitutions of the Reconstruction years. As is generally known, the only two constitutions
                    which appeared to prohibit segregated schools were those of 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        South Carolina
                    . Vaughn has examined surviving evidence more exhaustively than earlier scholars but
                    agrees with them that the only significant attempt at integrating schools at the elementary and
                    secondary level was in 
                        New Orleans
                    . He traces in some detail the fight of Thomas W. Conway to promote integration in 
                        Louisiana
                    .
            In 
                        South Carolina
                    , where blacks held greater power in the legislature than in any other state, efforts to
                    integrate the state university, which was already demoralized by the war, led to resignations by
                    white faculty members and withdrawals of white students. The legislature attempted a program of
                    scholarships to enable poor but able blacks to attend the college, a measure far in advance of the
                    times and one which was bitterly resented by the white population. A few black state officials
                    enrolled in the university to promote integration. During the few years in which blacks were
                    admitted, an impressive list of future black leaders attended the university.
            Vaughn also discusses congressional policy toward the education of blacks. In the 
                        District of Columbia
                     a system of separate schools for blacks was authorized. Segregation and the inferior
                    quality of the schools aroused deep resentment among blacks, but few members of Congress, with the
                    exception of Charles Sumner, supported efforts at integrating 
                    the schools. In order to secure adoption of Sumner's Civil Rights Act of 1875 it was
                    necessary to delete the section on schools. Finally Vaughn shows how Barnas Sears, general agent of
                    the Peabody Fund, helped to inhibit any tendency which might have existed to promote integrated
                    education by lobbying against the schools section in the Civil Rights Bill and by giving financial
                    aid from the Peabody Fund only to schools in the South which were segregated.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               Edgar Lee Masters: The Spoon River Poet and His Critics. By John T. Flanagan. (
                        Metuchen
                    , N. J.: The Scarecrow Press, Inc., 1974. Pp. viii, 175. Notes, index.
                    $6.00.)
            John T. Flanagan has not written a biography of Edgar Lee Masters. Neither is this book a critical
                    analysis of Masters' work, nor is it a final evaluation of Masters' place in
                    literary history. Instead, Flanagan has published a "survey of the critical reception of
                    his [Masters'] poetry and prose as countless reviewers, essayists, and literary historians
                    viewed his writing" (p. iii). In brief, this is a study about what Masters'
                    contemporaries thought of him as a writer.
            During the summer of 1949 this reviewer, then a student, found Professor Flanagan to be a very sound
                    and meticulous scholar. This book confirms such a conclusion. The notes at the end of each chapter
                    illustrate how exhaustively Flanagan has searched at home and abroad for the comments written by
                    Masters' critics. In short, Flanagan demonstrates impeccable scholarship in this work.
            The book begins with a short introduction, followed by a chapter dealing with the life of the Spoon
                    River poet. Basically using a chronological approach, Flanagan then takes the reader through the
                    detailed, critical responses to Masters' poetry and prose. The early works of verse and
                    drama are discussed, followed by comment on the Spoon River Anthology, which work
                    "catapulted him [Masters] into fame and began a critical discussion of his poetry which
                    raged unabated for several decades" (p. 21). What the reviewers had to say about the Domesday Book, dramatic verse narratives, fiction, biography, and later verse are
                    all included in Flanagan's study. Lastly, the author explains how the literary historians
                    and anthologists have dealt with Masters.
            
            Without question, the author accomplishes what he set out to do. This is the
                    definitive study of the critics' opinions of Masters' voluminous writings.
                    Flanagan's prose is clear, crisp, and candid. He has great empathy for Masters, but his
                    intimate feelings do not hamper his objectivity. Unfavorable, as well as favorable, criticism is
                    examined thoroughly. For example, in the chapter discussing fiction 
                        Flanagan
                     states: "On the balance it must be admitted that Masters did not write
                    distinguished fiction" (p. 106). This same candor about what the critics wrote is displayed
                    in every chapter of the book. And by reading what the critics had to say one gains much knowledge
                    about Masters and the literary climate that prevailed in the 
                        United States
                     prior to World War II. As a social critic, Masters had much to say about life.
                    Flanagan's informative book caused this reviewer to reread the Spoon River
                        Anthology in its entirety. Although Flanagan found many areas of agreement among the
                    critics, his book points out that literary criticism is not an exact science.
            This book will be of interest to instructors who teach literary criticism and to students who are
                    interested in their midwestern heritage.
            
               Indiana University Southeast 
                            New Albany
                        
                Gerald O. Haffner
         
         
            
               Crucial American Elections. Symposium presented at the Autumn General Meeting of
                    the American Philosophical Society, November 10, 1972. Memoirs of the American
                        Philosophical Society, Volume 99. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : American Philosophical Society, 1973. Pp. ix, 77. Notes, tables, index.
                    $3.00.)
            The elections are those of 1800, 1836, 1860, 1896, and 1936. The authors: five professional
                    historians—Merrill D. Peterson, Joel H. Silbey, Don E. Fehrenbacher, Gilbert C. Fite, and
                    Donald R. McCoy—each dealing with a year.
            It is McCoy's judgment (p. 56) that 1836 and 1896 were "on a lower level of
                    significance" than 1800, 1860, and 1936. What about 1796? 1856? Fehrenbacher rejects them
                    (p. 34) as choices for major cruciality because each was "reversed four years
                    later." 1832? Silbey points out that half the states then still had "essentially
                    one-party systems" (p. 25), whereas  in 1836
                    "the Democrats dramatically struck out in new directions with far-reaching consequences for
                    the future course of American politics" (p. 16).
            Peterson's treatment of 1800 strikes this reviewer as the least complex. Thomas
                    Jefferson's inauguration in 1801 "completed the first democratic transfer of power
                    in the nation's history" (p. 1). Jefferson "adhered to what he came to
                    call his ‘experiment’ in unmolested freedom of discussion. … The
                    principle was riveted on Jefferson's successors. And this was the critical, the enduring,
                    importance of the election of 1800" (p. 13).
            Addressing himself to a more complicated topic, Fehrenbacher does more
                    ranging—justifiably, in this reviewer's opinion. He emphasizes that 1860
                    "was one of a number of elections that may be labeled crucial but the
                    only one that proved to be catastrophic" (p. 30). Fehrenbacher cites a
                    definition of "crucial" ("involving a final and supreme
                    decision") and comments: "The final decision may not be the truly effective
                    one" (p. 37). He contrasts 1844 with 1860, terms the former "a real
                    forking-point," and even opines that the 1860 election "may be viewed as a
                    terminal symptom" (p. 38). Nevertheless, the candidates, atmosphere, and mechanics of
                    politics in 1860–1861 did indeed make the election crucial.
            In 1896, Fite reminds us, William Jennings Bryan showed the "direct relationship between
                    economic and political power" (p. 50) more clearly than any candidate before him. Fite sees
                    the nominees' images as especially consequential: "Thus McKinley and the gold
                    standard became the symbols of Americanism, nationalism, patriotism, and social stability"
                    (p. 53). McCoy adds that 1896 marked the start of "a sixteen-year period of strong
                    [Eepublican] control" (p. 56).
            McCoy depicts 1936 as demonstrating that big government was "here to stay." The
                    election "perpetuated not only the two-party system but also the concept of deciding
                    national differences at the polls"; the voters preferred "scattered remedies and
                    reforms" to risking "a thorough-going change of the system." True, much
                    of what 1936 developed "had come together in 1932." Yet now it was evident that
                    "the shift … was not just ‘a sometime thing’ "
                    (p. 72).
            Other candidates for consideration in a list of crucial elections are those of 1789 (mentioned by
                    Fehrenbacher),  1828, 1832, 1844, 1900, 1912, 1920, and 1932.
                    Strong cases can be made for at least three of them. At the same time, most of the conclusions
                    reached by the five scholars command respect. Keys to the logic of what is crucial are just such
                    words and phrases as "defining," "shaping,"
                    "far-reaching," "enduring," "decades to come,"
                    and "here to stay."
            
               
                  
                            Lexington
                        , Ky. Holman Hamilton
         
         
            
               Leaders of Reform: Progressive Republicans in 
                            Kansas
                        , 1900–1916. By Robert Sherman La Forte. (Lawrence: The University
                    Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1974. Pp. vii, 320. Maps, notes, bibliography, index. $11.00.)
            Professor La Forte has taken progressive Republicans in 
                        Kansas
                     as his theme. These Republicans emerged in the "boss-busting" party
                    factionalism at the turn of the century, dominated state Republicanism for a time, and then
                    abdicated party control as they followed Theodore Roosevelt into the Bull Moose episode, after which
                    they made their "trip back" to party regularity, although no longer as leaders. La
                    Forte has used—with discretion, objectivity, irony, and sophistication—a range
                    of documentary collections for local and state figures and for national personalities. William Allen
                    White, for example, plays a large role in the narrative, but his recollections as recorded in his
                    "highly imaginative autobiography" do not determine the author's
                    analyses.
            For historians, political progressivism has not appeared to be as logical, as consistent, or as
                    clearly defined as it did to those who participated in it and who provided the sources from which
                    the scholar derives his narrative and draws his interpretations. Students of progressivism at the
                    state level have produced one set of generalizations, while interpreters of progressivism at the
                    national level have produced other not entirely harmonious ones. Setting up one set of these
                    generalizations and knocking it down with "facts" has been a professional pastime
                    to some extent, and La Forte engages in it. He finds, for example, that 
                        Kansas
                     progressive Republicans were akin to the prototype established by George E. Mowry, but
                    interestingly enough he finds that regular Republicans and Democratic party leaders in 
                        Kansas
                     also fit the prototype. Unlike Hoyt L. Warner's urban findings in 
                    
                        Ohio
                    , La Forte sees 
                        Kansas
                     progressive Republicans as receiving their greatest support in the least urbanized part
                    of the state. In agreement with nearly everyone, La Forte shows his progressives to be definitely
                    middle class in composition and self serving in objectives. Republican progressives in 
                        Kansas
                     had and made no appeal to the working people of eastern 
                        Kansas
                     cities because they could not enact the sort of workmen's compensation or
                    employers' liability legislation wanted there. The small town morality which espoused
                    prohibition also alienated urban voters. Progressivism emerged in 
                        Kansas
                     at a time of increasing prosperity; it was not, thus, an economic protest movement as
                    populism had been. The older progressives had opposed populism in 
                        Kansas
                    , but younger progressives were motivated by "power, prestige, and
                    pelf" (p. 2) more than any ideological commitment. There was a clear line of connection
                    between populism and progressivism, however, in that both derived from an established reform
                    tradition which predated either.
            Economic legislation was the greatest passion of the progressive Republicans in 
                        Kansas
                    , but, in La Forte's view, their achievements were not nearly as significant as
                    they believed them to be. Railroad regulation, more equitable tax laws and a state tax commission,
                    home rule for cities, lobbyist registration, votes for women, direct election of senators, an
                    enthusiasm for (but nonenactment of) initiative and referendum, prohibition and anticigarette
                    legislation, a general Sabbatarian disposition but sense enough not to carry it too
                    far—these are among their enthusiasms and accomplishments.
            The book chronicles the personalities of the 
                        Kansas
                     Republican progressives and shows their manipulative talents rather than discussing
                    their ideological objectives. Generally speaking, they were conservatives, and they believed their
                    own campaign speeches in which "integrity and wise policies" were recommended to
                    the voters. They did not alter the usual tenor of 
                        Kansas
                     politics. All in all, La Forte has produced a book which will stand up well in its
                    substantial scholarship and in its clarity of presentation; it will, moreover, hold its own as other
                    scholars hereafter interpret and generalize about the progressive movement, or movements.
            
               Indiana University - Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Donald L. Kinzer
         
         
         
            
               Progressivism in America: A Study of the Era from Theodore Roosevelt to Woodrow
                        Wilson. By Arthur A. Ekirch, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : New Viewpoints, 1974. Pp. x, 308. Bibliographical essay, index. $10.00.)
            In this volume the author, Arthur A. Ekirch, Jr., describes in broad strokes the first major reform
                    movement in twentieth century America. He concentrates not only on its political aspects but also on
                    its intellectual foundations. In his most striking interpretation he finds important parallels
                    between the concepts of progressivism in the 
                        United States
                     and state democracy or socialism in Europe. Too often, he argues, historians of the
                    Progressive Period, in the belief that the American experience was isolated and unique, have
                    neglected similar strains of ideology that existed across the Atlantic. But Ekirch finds many
                    liberal antecedents in a 
                        Bismarkian
                        Germany
                     that stressed collectivism, statism, nationalism, and centralized power. The author
                    describes the growing belief in America that solutions could be found by the organized, purposeful
                    state. Instead of a drift in American society there grew the idea that a mastery of forces could be
                    achieved. Under the strong leadership of Theodore Roosevelt, America became an organized nation that
                    cast its gaze not only on internal conquests but on those overseas. (Ekirch correctly points out the
                    important role of Elihu Root in the latter.) While TR escapes serious criticism in the growth of
                    progressivism, the prophet armed, Woodrow Wilson, does not. Ekirch finds Wilson's policies
                    "hopelessly out of date" (p. 269) by the time of the 
                        Paris
                     Peace Conference as the First World War played a most crucial role in the development
                    of a nationalistic progressivism that passed Wilson by.
            This is a most perplexing book. One's first reaction is that little is presented that is new
                    and original. It is based largely, if not wholly, on secondary sources (there are no footnotes) and
                    appears to have been designed more as a textbook survey than as a monograph. Nor is the writing as
                    strong and as clear as in Ekirch's previous books; this is especially true of his
                    conclusion. Despite these points, however, the book has merit. Its strength lies in its
                    incorporation of much of the recent literature and its periodic flashes of insight into the
                    progressive mind. The tying together of  domestic progressivism
                    and overseas imperialism is very well done, as is the description of Wilson. The volume is a solid
                    and competent, but unexciting-, introduction to the era of progressivism.
            
               University of Tulsa, Tulsa Thomas Buckley
         
         
            
               The 
                            United States
                        , 1929–1945: Years of Crisis and Change. By Richard S. Kirkendall. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1974. Pp. x, 308. Illustrations, suggestions for additional
                    reading, index. Clothbound, $8.95; paperbound, $4.95.)
            This book is one volume of a series which is designed to cover the entire history of the 
                        United States
                    , and it is a significant contribution to the historiography of the period from 1929 to
                    1945. Packed with descriptive action, Professor Kirkendall's book deals with two crises in
                    the nation's life—the major depression and World War II. The stock market crash,
                    October, 1929, ushered in a depression. At late as 1932, however, Herbert Hoover urged a balanced
                    budget to be wrought, he said, by less aid to the poor and to the unemployed, by tight money, and by
                    more taxes.
            To the author the most obvious feature of the New Deal was an increase of the federal
                    government's power in the economy. This enhancement of power was necessary because of the
                    maldistribution of wealth, the unjustified power of the rich, and the control by this group of the
                    government. The writer is careful to emphasize that the New Deal was not meant to destroy capitalism
                    but to reform it. By 1935 the changes brought about by the New Deal were practically finished. Such
                    changes, 
                        Kirkendall
                     states convincingly, were designed to improve the living standards of the low income,
                    the aged, and the underprivileged.
            Perhaps the best writing in this excellently written book is the brillant analysis of the election of
                    1936. In this analysis one reads of the increased role of organized labor in American affairs.
                    Indeed, labor grew rapidly when nourished by the milk of the New Deal. After 1936 increasing
                    opposition to the New Deal became apparent and flourished under the impact of Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt's fight with the Supreme Court, by the national recession, and by the split in
                    the Democratic party in Congress. Although by 1940 the conservatives  were much stronger, FDR prevented the New Deal from floundering.
            Beyond Washington there was action too. Some states, with progressive governors and legislatures,
                    initiated New Deals in their respective bailiwicks. Nor were the cities wholly unrepresented in
                    reform programs. Literary figures lagged behind in treating social problems. John
                    Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath was an exception.
            American social classes were not destroyed by the New Deal, nor was poverty eliminated, though it was
                    somewhat diminished. Capitalism was maintained, though it was more regulated. As the author
                    demonstrates, reforms and relief restrained radicalism.
            In 1941 war came not as unexpectedly as many thought. General Douglas McArthur in the Philippines and
                    American generals at Pearl Harbor were notified of a probable Japanese attack, but unfortunately
                    some of the messages were not received. Once in the war the 
                  United
                            States, England
               , and Russia disagreed
                    repeatedly on where to fight. In America as President Roosevelt stated: "Dr. Win The War
                    replaced Dr. New Deal." During the war, big business, big labor, and big government all
                    grew bigger. Millions of Americans moved to cities in search of better jobs and higher living
                    standards. With blacks moving northward the war greatly affected American race relations. If Jim
                    Crowism was not destroyed, the white supremacy concept was at least shattered.
            The author's conclusion that the greatest changes in our culture in the period from 1929 to
                    1945 was more collectivization in the economy and greater power of the military in business and
                    government will not be challenged by many students of recent American history. Of the many books
                    written on this period of our recent past, Kirkendall's book is one of the very best.
            
               Wallace Community College, Dothan, Ala. George Osborn
         
         
            
               The President Is Calling. By Milton S. Eisenhower. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1974. Pp. xxiii, 598. Books cited, index.
                    $12.50.)
            This is a strange and fascinating book by the youngest of the Eisenhower brothers, a man who enjoyed
                    a long and  valuable career in government and higher education
                    and close personal and intellectual ties with his most famous brother. A somewhat undisciplined
                    volume, it appears to be four books in one. It is a partial autobiography that emphasizes the
                    author's career in government, above all, his relations with presidents. It is also a
                    history of the presidency during the past sixty years, an essay in political science, and a series
                    of essays on subjects of interest to the author.
            The sprawling character of the book tempts this reviewer to wish that he could have been its editor.
                    If this had been the case, the author would have been encouraged to throw away the surveys of
                    presidential administrations, publish the essays in other places, and enlarge the autobiography,
                    chiefly by telling more about higher education in recent years and freeing himself from at least
                    some of the inhibitions that prevented him from writing about his experiences as fully as is
                    desirable from the historian's point of view. Those inhibitions affected his discussion of
                    his work with Dwight Eisenhower while the later served as president.
            The title of the book has two meanings. One refers to the author's work for every president
                    from Calvin Coolidge to Richard Nixon; the second concerns the present crisis of the presidency. The
                    president, 
                        Milton
                     Eisenhower insists, needs help; the job has become too big for one person. In a book
                    liberally sprinkled with proposals for change, the most important is the proposal for the creation
                    of two executive vice presidents to whom the president would, while holding on to responsibility,
                    delegate time consuming tasks. The proposal seems sensible and, given the rich experience upon which
                    it is based, surely deserves serious consideration.
            To this reviewer the most valuable parts of the book are the discussions of the Eisenhower
                    presidency. These discussions have value in spite of the limitations referred to above. They
                    challenge some widely held views concerning such matters as President Eisenhower's control
                    of his administration and his opinion of Nixon, and they offer support for the rather small but
                    growing "revisionist" movement now seeking to raise the appraisal of this
                    president by historians. As one might expect, 
                        Milton
                     Eisenhower has great admiration for his brother's handling of the office and
                    suggests that scholars will come to regard him as a great president. The account in these pages
                    lends weight to interpretations that  portray restraint in the
                    use of power as a distinguishing trait of the Eisenhower presidency. Such restraint has greater
                    appeal now than it had to most historians who attempted appraisals a decade or more ago.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Richard S. Kirkendall
         
         
         
            Review Notices*
            
            "The City of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." By William Willard Howard. Supplement to Harper's
                        Weekly, August 11, 1888. Reprint. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Historic Landmarks Foundation, 1974. Pp. [4]. Magazine article, $1.50.)
                    William Willard Howard's description of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and its residents as of 1888 is informative and interesting, but it is a partial and
                    not altogether accurate view of the Hoosier capital. The 
                        Puritan
                     imprint of New Englanders did play a considerable role in the town's
                    development as Howard indicates, but by ignoring the even larger impact of southerners, the author
                    distorts his description. Howard's view of the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1811 is also badly out of focus. Had this engagement been as smashing a defeat of
                    the Indians as he suggests, the Old Northwest would have been spared most of the costly Indian
                    warfare which engulfed it during the War of 1812. This inflation of the result of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     engagement, however, was doubtless inspired by the fact that in 1888 Benjamin Harrison,
                    grandson of Governor William Henry Harrison who led the attack against the Indians in 1811, was a
                    presidential candidate. Howard exhibits much discernment in observing the bias of "country
                    members" of the legislature against 
                        Indianapolis
                     and also in noting the traditional Hoosier penchant for politics by commenting that
                    "the Indiana man is yet to be found who has not some concern in the politics of his
                    State." Howard shrewdly points out that in its economic growth 
                        Indianapolis
                     had been overshadowed by 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Chicago
               , and 
                        St. Louis
                    . But in 1888 he thought it yet had a large potential as a manufacturing center,
                    especially because of its great importance as a railroad terminus and its proximity to the recently
                    discovered natural gas fields of the state. A variety of broadbrush observations, some penetrating
                    and some superficial, concern the status of business, labor, politics, the theater, art and music,
                    religion, schools, public buildings, and architecture. Howard expected "
                        Indianapolis
                     to give a good account of herself in the future," adding: "She has an
                    excellent start in life, and her people have plenty of pluck and energy to back it up."
                    This item, which includes interesting pictures of 
                        Indianapolis
                     as of 1888, is available from the Historic Landmarks Foundation, 3402 Boulevard 
                  
                     * Unless otherwise indicated all review notices are written
                            by the editor of the Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
               
                     Place, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46208. Proceeds from its sale are to be used to aid in financing the American
                    Revolution Bicentennial observance in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               Strike! The Clash at 
                            Highland
                         and 
                            Columbia
                         Streets, September 9, 1919; Being a History of the Standard Street Car Company of 
                            Hammond
                        , Indiana, and the Attendant Difficulties that Preceded and Followed. By
                    Patricia Gorman. The 
                        Hammond
                     Historical Society Imprint Series IV. (
                        Hammond
                    , Ind.: The 
                        Hammond
                     Historical Society, 1974. Pp. [38]. Illustrations, notes, map. Booklet,
                    $2.25.) Gorman views the strike at the Standard Street Car Company in 
                        Hammond
                     in 1919 as the most violent strike which had occurred in the Indiana Calumet area to
                    that time. As this publication and its related documents indicate, even in 1975 various of the key
                    facts about this strike are yet in controversy. This brief account is enhanced by relevant
                    illustrations and documentary items. It has been published by the 
                        Hammond
                     Historical Society, 260 - 165th Street, 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana 46324.
            
               Historical Almanac of 
                            Harrison County
                        
                [Indiana]. By Arville L. Funk. (Corydon, Ind.: ALFCO
                    Publications, 1974. Pp. 81. Maps, illustrations. Booklet, $2.50.) Another in a series of
                    booklets about Indiana state and local history by Funk, this item gives attention mainly to topics
                    concerning 
                        Harrison County
                     and Corydon. For persons wanting to know 
                        Harrison County
                     better, through reading or visits, this book is a useful guide. Such publications
                    perhaps cannot be entirely without errors, but it is disconcerting to find a picture of the
                    Constitution Elm with the comment that it "is still in a good state of
                    preservation," followed pages later by one of the weather beaten stump of the same tree
                    (pp. 41, 46). Moreover, in listing early governors of Indiana, Funk omits Ratliff Boon, who
                    completed Jonathan Jenning's second term in the closing months of 1822; and it is incorrect
                    to indicate that Boon served continuously as lieutenant governor from 1819 to 1825 (p. 61). Funk
                    has, however, offered a variety of interesting and useful information. This booklet can be purchased
                    from ALFCO Publications, Box 66, Corydon, Indiana 47112.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
