
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 061, Issue 3, pages 189-282. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:061+issue:3+year:1965&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Senator Arthur Robinson of Indiana Vindicated:
            William Bullitt's Secret Mission to Europe
            
                    Robert E. Bowers
                    ⋆
                
            Almost as soon as the votes had been counted in November, 1932, President-elect F#2 D. Roosevelt
                    began preparations for launching his new administration. In the field of foreign policy these
                    preparations included regular and extensive communication over the next several months with Herbert
                    Hoover's Secretary of State, Henry L. Stimson.1 The diplomatic
                    preparations also included the sending of a personal emissary, William C. Bullitt, on a mysterious
                    trip to heads of government in Europe.2 Doubt as to Bullitt's exact
                    status caused much discussion in the newspapers and on the Senate floor during the early part of
                    1933. Senator Arthur Robinson of Indiana, for example, asserted but could not successfully prove
                    that Bullitt was in fact Roosevelt's emissary and was sounding out foreign leaders on
                    matters of diplomacy, conveying some of the President-elect's ideas on the same matters,
                    and making preliminary arrangements for high-level diplomatic discussions after the inauguration.
                    The evidence that Robinson needed and failed to get from his 
                  
                     ⋆ Robert E. Bowers is professor of history at 
                                Hanover
                             College, 
                                Hanover
                            , Indiana. The research for this article was done with the assistance of the 
                                Hanover
                             College Research Fund.
                  
                     1 From January 2 to March 3, 1933, the period of the principal events
                            discussed in this article, Stimson talked with Roosevelt, Cordell Hull, and other Roosevelt
                            representatives on twenty-six different occasions. Of this number, four conversations were
                            with Roosevelt directly, eight with Hull, his Secretary of State-to-be. See Desk Diaries, LC
                            67 A, Cordell Hull Papers, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            .
                  
                     2 See 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Jan. 26, 27, 28, Feb. 3, 5, 6, 7, 16, 1933. See also
                            "Roosevelt 'Secret Agent' is Reported in 
                                London
                            ," photostatic copy of article, Jan. 24, 1933, President's
                            Personal File, 1124, 
                                Franklin
                             Delano Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park.
               
                     Republican friends in the State Department has since been found
                    in the Hyde Park archives and elsewhere.
            William C. Bullitt had been a presidential emissary once before. As President Woodrow
                    Wilson's representative he had approached Soviet leaders concerning ways of bringing about
                    peace in Russia after World War I. Bullitt returned with an offer which on the face of it should
                    have pleased Wilson and the Allied leaders, since Lenin expressed readiness to accept severe
                    limitations on Soviet territorial claims as one of the conditions of peace.3 The
                    Allies, however, still hoped that the Soviets would disappear altogether; and by the time of
                    Bullitt's return Wilson himself had apparently changed his mind about the advisability of
                    dealing with Soviet Russia. The President therefore chose to disregard the proposals his
                    representative brought back. Bullitt soon broke with Wilson, became one of the latter's
                    severest critics,4 and left the political limelight until the nomination of F#2
                    D. Roosevelt for the presidency.
            In the interim between his service with Wilson and his service with Roosevelt, Bullitt, a wealthy
                    Philadelphian, occupied himself with his many talents as writer and man of the world.6 While eschewing politics, he continued to study Soviet Russia,6
                    culminating his long interest with a private visit to the 
                        Soviet Union
                     in May and June of 1932.7 During this trip he renewed his
                    acquaintance with men such as Maxim Litvinov, Chicherin's successor as foreign minister.
                    Immediately after his return, Bullitt began efforts to get in touch with Roosevelt. By September he
                    had succeeded;8 and 
                  
                     3 U. S., Papers Relating to the Foreign Relations of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1919, Russia (
                                Washington
                            , 1937), 77-81.
                  
                     4 Kobert Paul Browder, The Origins of Soviet-American
                                Diplomacy (
                                Princeton
                            , N. J., 1953), 12.
                  
                     5 He wrote a novel, It's Not Done (
                                New York
                            , 1926), did some editing and painting, and was with the Famous-Players-Lasky
                            Corporation for a short time. See 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Nov. 18, 26, 1933. See also Who's Who in
                                America, 1934-35 and Berliner Borsen Courier, Nov. 23, 1933.
                  
                     6 The best evidence of this is the skill and knowledge Bullitt brought
                            to his job as the first ambassador to the 
                                Soviet Union
                            . An interesting sidelight of his keeping up with the contacts he made during
                            his trip to Russia can be seen in William Harlan Hale, "The Road to
                            Yalta," America and Russia: A Century and a Half of Dramatic
                                Encounters, ed. Oliver Jensen (
                                New York
                            , 1962).
                  
                     7 Gilchrist Baker Stockton, 
                                Vienna
                            , to Secretary of State, Feb. 6, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt,
                            National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            .
                  
                     8 Louis B. Wehle, Hidden Threads of History: Wilson
                                Through Roosevelt (
                                New York
                            , 1953), 109-14.
               
                     by the end of the year he was off to Europe, where in January
                    he began his mysterious work for the President-elect.
            Bullitt returned to politics at the depth of the depression. The world was in a diplomatic turmoil
                    because of the emergence of Japanese imperialism, the rise of Hitler, the failure of the 
                        United States
                    ' Allies to pay their war debts, and related factors. Bullitt's wide
                    knowledge of affairs and his personal acquaintance with many European leaders made him a natural
                    choice as a foreign policy adviser. Roosevelt's use of the Philadelphian in secret,
                    personal diplomacy before the inauguration may be understood as the result of several factors, the
                    principal one being the prolonged period between the election and his inauguration. This was the
                    last time in American history when a President-elect waited from November until March to be
                    inaugurated, and it was a bad time for such a delay. European leadership was eager to know
                    Roosevelt's attitude on many questions, particularly the problem of war debts; and
                    Roosevelt quite naturally was chafing at the bit to get on the job and let his ideas be known. A
                    private tour by Bullitt, who could be publicly ignored or denounced, may have seemed, for the
                    President-elect, the safest compromise between inaction and rash public statements.
            Roosevelt often used personal emissaries to heads of government in a private or secret manner.9 Rumors circulated as early as December, 1932, that the President-elect had
                    already sent several such emissaries to Europe and South America.10 Until late
                    in January, however, nothing startling had turned up in relation to this practice of
                    Roosevelt's. Then, when an effort was made at a January 26 news conference to clarify the
                    relationship of the President-elect to Bullitt, the former cut short the conference, later letting
                    it be known "authoritatively" that he had no one representing him in Europe.11
            
            The persistent rumors to the contrary, however, had aroused the concern of Republican Senator Arthur
                    Robinson of Indiana, who sensed in them wrongdoing on Roosevelt's part. Robinson was a
                    thoroughgoing Republican with long experience in politics. He had been a delegate to the Republican
                    national conventions in 1924 and 1932. Prior to his 
                  
                     9
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Dec. 21, 1932.
                  
                     10 Raymond Clapper Diaries, Dec. 22, 1932, Manuscript Division,
                            Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            .
                  
                     11
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Jan. 26, 1933.
               
                     emergence on the national scene he had served four years in the
                    Indiana Senate and another four years as a judge of the 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana, Superior Court. In the state Senate, he had been floor leader all four years
                    and president pro tern his last term.12 In 1925, Republican
                    Governor Ed 
                        Jackson
                     appointed him to fill the vacancy created by the death of Democratic Senator Samuel M.
                    Ralston. The voters retained Robinson in his federal Senate seat in 1926,13 and
                    by 1933 he had nearly eight years Senate experience behind him.
            In the 
                        United States
                     Senate Robinson had been concerned principally with financial problems, especially
                    matters involving war debts owed the 
                        United States
                    . Between January 20 and February 3, 1933, the Senator had spoken sixteen times on the
                    matter of foreign debts. His position was simple and straightforward, in the direct tradition of
                    Coolidge's "They hired the money, didn't they?" The Robinson
                    version was expressed as follows:
                        A man who refuses to pay his honest debts is without standing, esteem, or respect in the
                            community. 
                                France
                             and other defaulters have placed themselves in this category in world
                                opinion.14
                  
                     The Hoosier Senator also felt that certain Eastern banking interests were behind the
                    propaganda in this country to forego collection of war debts, since this would help protect private
                    loans made to these same countries by the bankers.16 At the height of his
                    concern with war debts in January, 1933, Robinson heard about Bullitt's trip to heads of
                    governments; he was also led to believe that Bullitt was discussing the alarming possibility of
                    scaling debts down as much as 80 per cent.16 This was too much for the Senator;
                    and on January 25, 1933, he arose in the Senate for a lengthy indictment of both
                    Roosevelt's handling of the war debts question and of Bullitt's role as
                    Roosevelt's representative. Robinson based his indictment in large part on an article from
                    the 
                        Washington
                    
                    
                  
                            12
                            Who's Who in America, 1950-51.
                        
                  
                     13 Indiana, Year Book of the State of Indiana for the
                                Year 1926 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1926), 25; Indiana, Year Book of the State of Indiana for the
                                year 1928 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1928), 39; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 397.
                  
                     14
                            Congressional Record, 72 Cong., 2 Sess., 2136.
                  
                     15
                     Ibid., 2137.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 2468.
               
                    
                    Herald, the following Universal News Service item being the heart of it:
                        William C. Bullitt, Woodrow Wilson's repreesntative on the special mission to Russia
                            … has been in 
                                London
                             several days on a secret mission in which he is declared to be acting as the
                            "emissary" of President-elect Eoosevelt.
                        Bullitt, it was learned to-day, visited Chequers, Prime Minister MacDonald's
                            official country residence, Saturday, and No. 10 Downing Street, MacDonald's town
                            residence, to-day.
                        In the same authoritative quarter, which declared Bullitt is the emissary of Roosevelt, it
                            was declared the American told a prominent British statesman that Roosevelt favors a
                            reduction of the British war debt by 80 per cent.17
                  
                    
            
            Democrats in the Senate spiritedly defended the President-elect. Senator Burton Wheeler of 
                        Montana
                    , who asserted that his own confidence in Roosevelt forbade him to believe that FDR
                    would advocate an 80 per cent reduction, argued that one should not believe everything that one read
                    in the newspapers.18 Senator Joseph Robinson of Arkansas dismissed the newspaper
                    article as mere rumor and the charges based on it as self-evidently absurd.19
                    Other Democrats argued the same themes until they had demonstrated to their own satisfaction that
                    the Bullitt story was sheer rumor.
            Robinson's faith in the newspaper despatches remained unshaken, however; and on February 2,
                    1933, he raised the question once again on the Senate floor by quoting a Universal Service despatch
                    from Berlin, dated February 1: 
                        William C. Bullitt, America's self-described secret emissary, paid calls in 
                                German
                             official quarters here Monday and then left for 
                                Vienna
                            , it was learned to-day.
                        Covering his tracks under an assumed name, Bullitt came from 
                                London
                             and 
                                Paris
                            , where he talked with Prime Minister MacDonald and French Premier Paul-Boncour.
                        In Berlin he called on Foreign Minister Von Neurath and the chief of the American division in
                            the 
                                German
                             foreign office.
                        
                     
                                London
                             and 
                                Paris
                             dispatches state Bullitt described himself in those capitals as the
                            representative of President-elect Roosevelt, despite Roosevelt's denial that
                            Bullitt or anyone else was representing him.
                        Bullitt registered in Berlin under another name and asked that his presence be kept secret.
                            He expressed himself bitterly over what he termed the 
                                London
                             "indiscretions" which exposed his mission.20
                  
                    
                    
                  
                            17
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            18
                            Ibid
                        
                  
                            19
                            Ibid., 2470-71.
                        
                  
                            20
                            Ibid., 3146.
                        
               
                     The Senator then asked, "Who is this man Bullitt, and
                    what is he doing in Europe, and whom does he represent?"21
            
            On the face of it the Senator from Indiana was returning to the Bullitt issue on the basis of exactly
                    the same kind of evidence which members of the Democratic majority had dismissed as mere rumor on
                    January 25. Robinson continued, however, to make additional observations and charges as though the
                    newspaper reports were true. According to him it was safe to assume Bullitt did not represent
                    Hoover; and since Roosevelt had denied (according to the news story of January 26) that Bullitt
                    represented him, then the self-styled secret emissary might properly be apprehended and brought to
                    justice under the Logan Act. This legislation, passed in 1799, made it a crime for a private
                    citizen, without authority from the government, to carry on "verbal …
                    intercourse with any foreign government … with an intent to influence the measures or
                    conduct of any foreign government…,"22
            
            Robinson then argued that the matter should be brought to the State Department's attention.
                    He was in earnest. The next day the Senator wrote to Under Secretary of State William R. Castle,
                    Jr., requesting information on Bullitt's activities abroad and suggesting that he be
                    apprehended and prosecuted if his mission actually was as described in the newspapers.23
            
            In the meantime, on the Senate floor, Robinson was made the butt of ridicule for repeating his
                    January 25 indiscretion. Senator Marvel Mills Logan of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who claimed to be a kinsman of the Logan whose offence had brought about the Logan
                    Act, suggested that a telegram be sent to Roosevelt urging that he stop considering the war debts
                    (allegedly the principal topic of Bullitt's conversations with foreign heads of government)
                    because "it is worrying the distinguished junior Senator from Indiana until he is not able
                    to discharge his duties in the 
                        United States
                     Senate."24 Democratic Senator Joseph Robinson of Arkansas
                    told a lengthy joke ridiculing 
                  
                            21
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     22
                            Ibid. See also U. S., The Code of Laws of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America of a General and Permanent Character in Force January 3,
                            1935 (
                                Washington
                            , 1935), Section 5, Title 18.
                  
                     23 Senator Arthur R. Robinson to Secretary of State, Feb. 3, 1933,
                            State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt/1. See also William R. Castle, Jr., for Senator
                            Arthur R. Robinson for Secretary of State, Feb. 4, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028
                            Bullitt/7.
                  
                     24
                            Congressional Record, 72 Cong., 2 Sess., 3146.
               
                     the Indiana Senator's questioning of
                    Bullitt's role and then made it clear that in his opinion the subject was hardly worth
                    pursuing further: 
                        the statement has been made by the President elect, Mr. Roosevelt, that the gentleman
                            referred to by the junior Senator from Indiana has no authority to represent him, and I
                            think that statement should be accepted without question. Having made some inquiry into the
                            subject, I am convinced that the declaration is accurate.25
                  
                    
            
            The Arkansan Senator was most fortunate in his choice of words, perhaps designedly, since they
                    expressed the exact state of affairs, no more, no less. He did not say that Bullitt did not
                    represent Roosevelt; he said Bullitt had no authority to represent Roosevelt. The statement was
                    indeed accurate, for who could give a private citizen authority to represent the 
                        New York
                     governor in dealing with foreign heads of government on matters involving the entire 
                        United States
                    ? Robinson also thought "the statement should be accepted without
                    question." The Senator from Arkansas no doubt did think this; and no doubt Roosevelt and
                    Bullitt agreed. Such uncritical acceptance would have saved both of them a lot of embarrassment!
                    Having thus stilled the waters with the oil of double talk, Robinson of Arkansas probably believed
                    he had effectively quieted Robinson of Indiana on the Bullitt issue.
            But the Hoosier Senator refused to be quieted. As noted earlier he requested on February 3 that the
                    State Department give him a run-down on Bullitt's activities abroad. Under Secretary of
                    State Castle met the Senator's request immediately. On February 4, a circular message
                    signed by Secretary of State Stimson went to the embassies in 
                  Paris, London
               , Berlin, and 
                        Vienna
                     asking for further information on Bullitt.26 Within three days, the
                    answers were back and copies were in the hands of Robinson of Indiana.27
                    
                        Vienna
                     reported that the suspected secret emissary had been frequently to 
                        Vienna
                     and once to Russia during the previous year– at times incognito.28 From 
                        London
                     the ambassador reported that "reliable witnesses" had seen him
                    leaving No. 10 Downing 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 3147.
                  
                     26 Circular, Feb. 4, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt/2.
                  
                     27 William R. Castle, Jr., to Senator Arthur R. Robinson, Feb. 7,
                            1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt/11 ff.
                  
                     28 Gilchrist Baker Stockton, 
                                Vienna
                            , to Secretary of State, Feb. 6, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028
                        Bullitt.
               
                     Street on more than one occasion the previous month.29 Berlin indicated that Bullitt had been there six weeks previously but had
                    made no statement about himself other than as a person "interested in foreign
                        affairs."30
                    
                        Paris
                     reported that the Philadelphian had been closeted with Premier Joseph Paul-Boncour for
                    half an hour on January 27 and gave a summary of the general terms of their talk.31
            
            Castle's inquiries of the State Department failed to find evidence about Bullitt that went
                    materially beyond the news stories; moreover, both before and after the exchange with Robinson,
                    Castle reasurred ambassadors to this country that Bullitt did not represent the President-elect. On
                    February 2, the day before Robinson's inquiry, Castle had informed the 
                        German
                     Ambassador that it was "exceedingly unlikely" that Bullitt
                    "was on any mission from Mr. Roosevelt."32 On February 9 the
                    Under Secretary cabled John Garrett, 
                        United States
                     ambassador to 
                        Italy
                    , that the Italian Ambassador had been informed that Bullitt could have no
                    representative status for the President-elect since Roosevelt had denied reports to that effect.33
            
            The failure of the Department of State, still directed by the Republican administration, to offer
                    convincing evidence to sustain the news stories made it impossible for Robinson to do more with his
                    charges. The Democratic majority certainly would not tolerate a third attack based on "mere
                    rumour." Thus the matter was dropped.
            Now, a generation later, evidence has been discovered which verifies the contemporary news stories
                    and even goes beyond them in demonstrating that Bullitt was not only acting as Roosevelt's
                    personal emissary in informal conversations with European heads of government and foreign ministers
                    but was carrying on these conversations in a way rather more suggestive of diplomacy than
                    journalism.
            
               
                  29 Andrew Mellon, 
                            London
                        , to Secretary of State, Feb. 6, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt.
               
                  30 Frederick Moseley Sackett, Jr., Berlin, to Secretary of State, Feb. 6,
                        1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt.
               
                  31 Walter Evans Edge, 
                            Paris
                        , to Secretary of State, Feb. 6, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt.
               
                  32 J. G. Rogers for Secretary of State to Albert W. Kliefoth, Feb. 2,
                        1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt/10.
               
                  33 William R. Castle, Jr., for Secretary of State to John Garret, Feb. 9,
                        1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt/14.
            
            
            Between January 23 and February 1, 1933, Bullitt sent a series of telegrams in code to Miss Margaret
                    LeHand, Roosevelt's secretary, at Warm Springs, 
                        Georgia
                    , where the President-elect was resting and preparing for the work ahead. The subject
                    matter and wording of these decoded telegrams established beyond a doubt that Bullitt considered
                    himself Roosevelt's personal emissary on a trip clearly designed to bring about an exchange
                    of ideas between the President-elect and heads of government in Europe. There is even some
                    indication in the telegrams that Roosevelt was seeking diplomatic commitments in advance of his
                    inauguration. The facts that the telegrams were in code and that both Bullitt and spokesmen for the
                    President-elect steadily denied the information revealved by the telegrams leave the impression that
                    both Roosevelt and Bullitt feared the results of public revelation of their relationship at this
                    point.
            By comparing the published news reports with the secret telegrams, additional evidence can be gained.
                    On January 23, 1933, Bullitt sent the following cable in code, clearly revealing the
                    quasi-diplomatic nature of his journey: 
                        MY CONVERSATION WITH CHAMBERLAIN AND MACDONALD SHOWS THAT IT IS POSSIBLE FOR ENGLAND TO
                            RETURN TO THE GOLD STANDARD AM LEAVING FOR FRANCE WEDNESDAY THE P M SAID HE HOPED
                            COMMUNICATIONS WOULD NOT BE SENT HIM THROUGH LORD READING.34
                  
                    The next day, January 24, William Hillman in a copyrighted story for Universal News Service,
                    published the first reports on Bullitt's alleged activities as Roosevelt's agent
                    abroad. Hillman mentioned Bullitt's visit to Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald at his
                    official residence and something of the nature of the conversation. The article also intimated that
                    a strong effort was being made to hide Bullitt's real status.
            
                    British officials are declared to have been advised from an important quarter that
                        Bullitt's mission must not be made known to the 
                            Washington
                         State Department. For this reason they are said to be puzzled as to his exact
                        status.
                    In his 
                            London
                         hotel last night Bullitt refused to be seen.35
               
                
            
               
                  34 William Bullitt, 
                            London
                        , to Margaret LeHand, Warm Springs, Ga., Jan. 23, 1933, President's
                        Personal File, 1124.
               
                  35 "Papers of the Democratic National Committee,"
                        photostatic copy, President's Personal File, 1124.
            
            
            On the next day, January 25, Robinson, as indicated previously, made his charges in the Senate.
            Bullitt's coded cablegram of January 26 would have given sobering substance to many of
                    Robinson's accusations. In this communication with Roosevelt Bullitt refers to a plan
                    "we decided on" regarding war debts payments; mentions arrangements which were
                    discussed regarding proposed pre-inaugural confidential conversations between Roosevelt and
                    ex-Premier, party leader Edouard Herriot; and indicates that Premier Boncour conveyed a
                    "definite promise" that 
                        France
                     would not make a loan to 
                        Japan
                    : 
                        TODAY HELD TWO INTIMATE CONVERSATIONS WITH BONCOUR YOUR GOOD WILL TOWARD FRANCE HAS MOVED HIM
                            AND HE HOPES BY FOLLOWING PLAN WE DECIDED ON THAT IT WILL BE POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN PAYMENT DUE
                            LAST DECEMBER SHORTLY AFTER INAUGURATION HE EXPECTS TO ASK HERRIOT TO GO TO AMERICA
                            OSTENSIBLY ON LECTURE TRIP BUT IN REALITY TO HAVE CONFIDENTIAL TALK WITH YOU THIS WOULD
                            BEGIN FEBRUARY TWENTY FIRST IN CASE THE BONCOUR MINISTRY SHOULD FALL A NEW GOVERNMENT WOULD
                            ADHERE TO THIS PROJECT HE GAVE DEFINITE PROMISE THAT NO LOAN WOULD BE GIVEN TO JAPAN I AM
                            LEAVING FOR GERMANY TOMORROW.36
                  
                    
            
            The same day that Roosevelt received this telegram he cut short a news conference and "hence
                    no comment could be obtained" in reply to queries as to whether Bullitt was representing
                    him in Europe and whether he intended to cut the European debt. The news report went on to say,
                    "It was learned authoritatively, however, that Mr. Roosevelt has no one representing him in
                    Europe…. "37 On the next day, January 27, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times reported a reiteration of the official statement to the effect that
                    "neither Prime Minister MacDonald nor any other member of the British Government has seen
                    or received a communication from any emissary of Mr. Roosevelt." Despite the denials, the
                        Times continued, "reports persist that Mr. Bullitt did see Mr.
                        Mac-Donald."38
            
            
               
                  36 William C. Bullitt to Margaret LeHand, Jan. 26, 1933,
                        President's Personal File, 1124.
               
                  37
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, Jan. 26, 1933.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., Jan. 27, 1933.
            
            
            As in 
                        London
                     and 
                        Paris
                    , so in Berlin, both the press and the State Department were aware of Bullitt's
                    moves but were unable to prove he was actually Roosevelt's emissary. Again, a decoded
                    telegram reveals the connection between the President-elect and Bullitt: 
                        HAVE HAD TALK WITH BUELOW AND NEURATH THE LATTER EXPECTING REMAIN AS MINISTER OF FOREIGN
                            AFFAIRS IN THE NEW GOVERNMENT OR ELSE HINDENBURG WILL EMPOWER HIM TO CARRY THROUGH THE
                            POLICIES OF DECEMBER OUTLINE FULL RELIANCE CAN BE PLACED ON FRENCH AND GERMAN SUPPORT FOR
                            RETURN OF ENGLAND TO GOLD STANDARD RECENT PUBLICITY HAS MADE CONVERSATION WITH OTHERS
                            DANGEROUS AM GOING TO AUSTRIA TOMORROW.39
                  
                    
            
            Sent right at the time Hitler became chancellor, the telegram shows a surprising misconception,
                    perhaps typical of those times, of the sources of power in 
                        Germany
                    . More to the point, it, like the other telegraphic correspondence between Roosevelt and
                    Bullitt, reveals a confidential agent greatly concerned that the true nature of his mission not be
                    discovered.
            On February 1 Bullitt telegraphed Roosevelt: 
                        TELEGRAM JUST RECEIVED FROM BONCOUR FRENCH GOVERNMENT NEVERTHELESS ADHERES DEBT PAYMENT
                            PROJECT I GO FRANCE TOMORROW HERRIOT WILL TAKE STEAMER AS ARRANGED.40
                  
                     Boncour, apparently, had little doubt as to Bullitt's relation to Roosevelt.
            The very next day, February 2, Robinson made his second set of charges in the Senate and the game was
                    on. The accusations spread around the world in a matter of hours. 
                  
                     39 William C. Bullitt, Berlin, to Margaret LeHand, Jan. 30 or 31,
                            1933, President's Personal File, 1124.
                  
                     40 William C. Bullitt, 
                                Vienna
                            , to Margaret LeHand, Feb. 1, 1933, President's Personal File, 1124.
                            Other telegrams from Bullitt in this same file and along these same lines include one from 
                                London
                             on Jan. 24, 1933, giving MacDonald's assurance that a Japanese loan
                            will not be allowed to be floated in 
                                England
                            ; one on Jan. 30, 1933, mentioning a talk with von Beulow and Neurath; on Feb.
                            1, 1933, regarding an assurance from Boncour that Herriot was to take the steamer
                            "as arranged"; while there is also an interesting note from Bullitt on
                            Apr. 10, 1933, mentioning his continued conversations with European leaders and his pleasure
                            at being assured that he would receive a high office in the Department of State.
               
                    
                    Der Wiener Tag printed the story with the charges on February 3;41 and on that same day Gilchrist Baker Stockton, 
                        United States
                     envoy in 
                        Vienna
                    , cabled the Secretary of State concerning them.42 The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times carried the Senator's comments in full, noting the
                    Senate's reaction,43 as did other newspapers and news services. For the
                    moment Robinson of Indiana was riding the headlines ahead of Robinson of 
                        Arkansas
                    , and it looked as if a major political issue might yet be made of it.
            As already indicated, the Hoosier Senator failed to convince his colleagues with news stories and
                    also failed to get more concrete evidence from the State Department. The failure in both instances
                    must be attributed to Bullitt's success in throwing reporters and agents off the scent. In
                    the course of his junkets to No. 10 Downing Street, the Quai d'Orsay, the Wilhelmstrasse,
                    and 
                        Vienna
                    , he had used assumed names, failed to turn up at apartments he had rented in his own
                    name, put on disguises, and in general behaved as secret agents are supposed to behave.44 His favorite device, however, was simply to deny that he was doing what he
                    was doing; and he used this technique when he returned to the 
                        United States
                     on February 16 in order to send all rumors and charges to their final rest. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times reported this final diplomatic maneuver on the part of Bullitt as follows:
                        
                        William C. Bullitt, American writer, who has figured in the foreign press as visiting 
                                France
                             and 
                                England
                             to make unofficial inquiries on the war-debt question on behalf of
                            President-elect Roosevelt, returned yesterday on the North 
                                German
                             Lloyd liner Europa and denounced these reports as "ridiculous and
                            sheer nonsense."
                        "I have just been away on one of my usual trips to Europe," he said,
                            "as I have been doing for the last ten years, to get the correct data for the book
                            I am preparing on statesmanship."
                        [When asked], "In your conversations with the Premiers of Great Britain and 
                                France
                            , did you discuss the payment of the war debts ?" 
                        
                           41
                                    
                              Vienna, Austria
                           , Der Wiener Tag,
                                    Feb. 3, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028 Bullitt.
                        
                           42 Gilchrist Baker Stockton, 
                                        Vienna
                                    , to Secretary of State, Feb. 3, 1933, State Department Files, 111.028
                                    Bullitt/15.
                        
                           43
                                    
                                        New York
                                    
                                    Times, Feb. 3, 1933. The article notes that Roosevelt denies the
                                    story.
                        
                           44
                                    Ibid., Jan. 26, 27, 28, Feb. 3, 5, 6, 7, 16, 1933.
                     
                             "I certainly did not," was Mr.
                            Bullitt's reply. "I am simply interested in my book….
                                "45
                  
                    
            
            While the decoded telegrams seem to establish the essential truth of the newspaper stories, a much
                    stronger case can be made for Bullitt's being a personal emissary of the President-elect.
                    It can now be established that such was the intent of both Roosevelt and Bullitt before the journey
                    was even begun.
            In July, 1932, Louis Wehle, a friend of Roosevelt's, and Colonel E. M. House,
                    Wilson's friend now back actively in Democratic politics, concluded that Bullitt was one of
                    the few men in the Democratic party with enough knowledge about foreign affairs to be helpful to
                    Roosevelt, whose own forte was domestic policy.46 Wehle told
                    Bullitt of this opinion, went over certain foreign policy matters with him, and arranged to set the
                    scene for a meeting between the two men at a later date.47
            
            Bullitt was clearly willing to become one of Roosevelt's foreign policy advisers. In
                    September he wrote the Democratic candidate offering his services in the area of foreign policy and
                    received the following reply: 
                        Please let me tell you how much I appreciate your offer of service to me during the campaign
                            in connection with foreign policy issues. I am most anxious to avail myself of your
                                help….48
                  
                    Thus encouraged, Bullitt made a substantial financial contribution to Roosevelt's
                    campaign and on September 23 received a personal thank-you note for it.49 On
                    October 5 the two men finally met and immediately became fast friends.50 After
                    the election, on November 16, Wehle suggested to FDR that his new friend be sent to Europe to bring
                    the President-elect up to date on events since June, 1932, the month that Bullitt had returned from
                    his previous trip to 
                  
                     45
                     Ibid., Feb. 16,1933.
                  
                     46 Wehle, Hidden Threads of History, 109-14.
                  
                     47
                     Ibid., 113-14.
                  
                     48 Roosevelt to William C. Bullitt, Sept. 12, 1932,
                            President's Personal File, 1124.
                  
                     49 William C. Bullitt to Roosevelt, Sept. 14, 1932,
                            President's Personal File, 1124; Roosevelt to William C. Bullitt, Sept. 23, 1932,
                                ibid.
                  
                  
                     50 Wehle, Hidden Threads of History, 114-23.
               
                     Europe.51 Wehle furthermore suggested the
                    conditions on which Bullitt should be sent, namely: "on his own initiative and
                    resources"; to get "up-to-date information on the chances of a reconciliation
                    being promoted between 
                        France
                     and 
                        Germany
                     with Britain as the third party in a three-power treaty"; and to learn
                    "what the European Cabinets were likely to propose about the December 15th installment
                    payments on the debts."52
            
            Wehle thought Bullitt would be discreet on such a trip, and this proved to be the case. The former
                    then noted that on November 28, 1932, he "began receiving cables from him [Bullitt] in our
                    own code" about his visits with MacDonald, Herriot, Berengar, and other leaders and
                    "made it a point to relay to 
                        Albany
                     copies of my decodings of his messages." In these cables, Bullitt said among
                    other things that fundamental debt adjustments were needed to prevent the fall of governments and
                    even revolution. He was also pessimistic about reconciliation between 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        France
                    .53
            
            The trip was so successful in Roosevelt's eyes that he even thought of going through Europe
                    with Bullitt before inauguration and actually had an itinerary arranged. As it turned out, such a
                    trip was not possible; and on January 13 Bullitt began his second jaunt, this time keeping in direct
                    touch with the President-elect, a new code being made up "of which Roosevelt had a copy
                    that he might receive cables directly."5⋆ Wehle does not
                    quote these cables, and heretofore his statements could reasonably have been doubted. But now that
                    copies of the telegrams have been found in the Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, historians can accept
                        Hidden Threads of History with greater faith.
            
               
                  51
                  Ibid., 118.
               
                        52
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  53
                        Ibid., 118-19.
               
                  54
                  Ibid., 120-23. Wehle points out the efforts to keep
                        Bullitt's trip secret and attributes the news stories to a leak from a particular but
                        unnamed confidant. On p. 121 he also uses the word "distorted" rather than
                        "false" in describing these stories; "the distorted report that
                        Bullitt would be negotiating in Europe as representative of the
                    President-elect."
            
            
            Wehle's analysis, confirmed by the copies of the actual telegrams, has every evidence of
                    veracity about it; but it is given greater credence by other witnesses from the time. As indicated
                    earlier, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times of December 21, 1932, pointed out that while Hoover had favored formal
                    commissions despite all their attendant publicity, Roosevelt favored personal representatives
                    reporting to him alone and preferably without publicity.55 It is entirely
                    possible that there were a great many such personal representatives at large in the winter of
                    1932-33 who have not yet been uncovered. In the recently opened diaries of Raymond Clapper, the
                    President was authoritatively reported to be "sending secret agents to South America, Asia,
                    and Europe to report back to Roosevelt," although names of individuals had not been
                        found.56
            
            Was Bullitt then in fact a secret agent of Roosevelt's? In the sense of an
                    individual's reporting secretly on specific matters to the President-elect, he clearly was.
                    Using this definition, the French generally assumed that Bullitt was sent to "collect
                    information and perhaps give some" in conversations with heads of government about the
                        President-elect.57 In 
                        England
                    , the 
                        London
                    
                    Daily Mail suggested that Bullitt's visit was "believed to be
                    that of an observer of foreign affairs in behalf of the new 
                        United States
                     administration and it is gathered that war debts was one of the subjects
                        discussed."58 Whatever was said, by late December, 1932, Bullitt
                    himself believed that he was rapidly becoming one of Roosevelt's principal foreign policy
                        advisers,59 possibly a future Assistant Secretary in the State
                        Department.60 Moreover, Bullitt had gone to Europe with Roosevelt's
                    full knowledge and with a 
                  
                     55
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Dec. 21, 1932.
                  
                     56 Clapper Diaries, Dec. 22, 1932.
                  
                     57
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Jan. 28, 1933.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., Jan. 26, 1933.
                  
                     59 Wehle, Hidden Threads of History, passim.
                  
                  
                     60 In April, 1933, Bullitt thanked Roosevelt for the latter's
                            "assurance" that Bullitt would become an "assistant secretary of
                            State," William C. Bullitt to Roosevelt, Apr. 10, 1933, President's
                            Personal File, 1124. Bullitt never became an Assistant Secretary, but he did become an
                            Assistant to the Secretary and later Ambassador to the 
                                Soviet Union
                            .
               
                     clear idea of what he was to do. He did discuss not only debts
                    but other matters with heads of government and with foreign secretaries; he did sent reports to the
                    President-elect in coded cablegrams; and he and FDR were both apparently so well aware of the
                    embarrassing implications of their actions that they made every effort to cover up their
                    relationship. In view of all this, it is difficult to describe Bullitt other than as
                    Roosevelt's emissary, as the news stories of the time and the Senator from Indiana
                    described him. In this respect Robinson stands vindicated.
         
         
         
            Reminiscences of a Hill-Billy
            
                    Edited by Victor M. Bogle
                    ⋆
                
            
                    Contributed by Paul Pritchard Van Riper
                    ⋆⋆
                
            Students of Indiana's history naturally welcome any primary source material which helps them
                    reconstruct the state's past, but they often have reservations about personal
                    narratives–particularly those which have been composed long after the occurrence of the
                    events related. Yet, properly evaluated and cautiously used, writings based on the
                    narrator's recollections are valuable historical documents. They serve not only as
                    depositories of factual data and viewpoints but also as vehicles by which the reader can readily,
                    and ofttimes pleasantly, return to a past era. The following excerpts from "Reminiscences
                    of a Hill-Billy," written by the late Paul Van Riper near the close of a long career as
                    teacher-administrator, incorporate some of the more positive features of "memory
                    literature," especially that variety associated with the term Hoosier. Van Riper's
                    efforts to record the highlights of his life and career deserve a wide audience of readers who are
                    interested in the cultural evolution of Indiana.
            Paul Van Riper's roots were deep in the soil of 
                        Jennings County
                    , Indiana. Whatever his later status as a professional educator, he retained many of the
                    qualities that identified him with the neighborhood of his youth. The
                    "Reminiscences" reveal him as an energetic, dedicated person who possessed a
                    wholesome outlook on life and a genuine respect for his fellow human beings. He is, in fact,
                    representative of a large group of men who were molded by the farm environment of southern Indiana a
                    generation or so ago and then, carrying their rural banners with them, assumed positions of
                    responsibility in the affairs of the city. Present urban society, certainly that of the American
                    Middle West, bears the imprint of the actions, thinking, and philosophy of these rural-bred leaders.
            It is the commonplace and typical aspects of Van Riper's life that give substance to his
                    narrative. He never held an 
                  
                     ⋆ Victor M. Bogle is associate professor of history and
                            director of the Indiana University Campus, 
                                Kokomo
                            .
                  
                     ⋆⋆ Paul Pritchard Van Riper, whose father wrote
                            "Reminiscences of a Hill-Billy," is professor of public administration,
                            Cornell University, 
                        Ithaca, New York
                     .
               
                     extremely high office, nor did he accomplish feats which would
                    set him apart from dozens of other competent "school men" of his day.
                    Nevertheless, his professional contribution was substantial; and his life, according to his own
                    testimony, was a happy, vital one.
            Humans tend to remember only what they choose to remember and to restrict their power of recall to
                    the events and episodes which conform to their personal image. As Paul Van Riper sat at his
                    typewriter (ca. 1939) to record the highlights of his own past, he undoubtedly yielded to such a
                    tendency. His youthful years remained vivid to him, and in retrospect he saw that much of what
                    happened to him in 
                        Spencer
                     Township, 
                        Jennings County
                    , was an important prelude to the career he was to pursue. His effort to give weight and
                    emphasis to this chapter of his life resulted in a perceptive composite picture of southern Indiana
                    school life during the closing years of the past century.
            Van Riper received his elementary and secondary education in southern Indiana during the
                    1880's and 1890's. The large majority of common school students were then enrolled
                    in the township schools, most of which were located in the country or in small villages. Van Riper
                    was himself a product of and a teacher in these schools, and it is principally of them that he
                    writes in his recollections. The townships were nearly always divided into several school districts,
                    and each district school served its immediate neighborhood. As Van Riper indicates, these district
                    schools had to be within walking distance for the pupils who attended them. In 1890 more men than
                    women taught in the schools; their yearly terms varied from about four to six months and school
                    houses were normally of frame or log but often of brick or stone. At the elementary level the basic
                    subjects were spelling, reading, writing, arithmetic, grammar, geography, history, and physiology.
                    Teachers and students alike were very dependent upon texts. "Proficiency in a branch
                    [subject] meant mastery of its text…. Teaching was synonymous with fixing the words and
                    meaning of the author."1
            
            
               
                  1 Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1892), 309. For comprehensive discussions of the Indiana common school system
                        during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries see 
                            Boone
                        , History of Education in Indiana, 252-323; and John D. Barn-hart
                        and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), II, 325-44, 504-22.
            
            
            The common schools which Van Riper attended and in which he taught were products of the educational
                    system mandated by the Constitution of 1851. Established during the fifties, the common school
                    system suffered various setbacks during that and the ensuing decade; but by the eighties and
                    nineties it had made significant advances. The civil township was the basic school unit, though
                    towns and cities could and often did have separate school systems. The township schools, during Van
                    Riper's days as student and teacher, were administered first by three trustees and then by
                    a single trustee elected by local voters. Trustees exercised important civil as well as educational
                    functions. In the early 1890's a competent observer noted that "the power of the
                    trustee is practically autocratic. Patrons may petition, and the county board [of education] may
                    recommend, and the [county] superintendent may advise, and even the county commissioners may demur,
                    but, except in unimportant particulars, the authority of the trustee is absolute."2 The trustee's role was paramount as regards the location of school
                    districts and school buildings, and the actual selection of teachers was in his hands. County and
                    state control over licensing of teachers and the selection of texts increased during the late
                    nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, but the township remained the principal school unit and
                    the trustee the most powerful school official.
            Secondary or high schools evolved as elementary schools began to flourish. Though apparently not
                    anticipated by the framers of the Constitution of 1851, a small number of them developed as a part
                    of the common school system during the fifties and sixties. These early high schools were all
                    located in towns and cities, though by Van Riper's youth they were rapidly developing in
                    the townships as well. Most of them had only two or three years of study at first. For instance, the
                    high school at Hayden which Van Riper attended apparently had only a three year program.
            The portions of the "Reminiscences" included in this issue of the Indiana Magazine of History hinge chiefly on Van Riper's early educational
                    experiences. They also provide glimpses into a pattern of rural life which dominated the 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 274. An 1889 law made the
                            change from three to one trustee per township.
               
                     Hoosier scene two generations ago. The writer, perhaps
                    unintentionally, has conveyed a significant historical fact: the political-social-cultural orbit in
                    rural southern Indiana was extremely localized. It was not the state, or even the county, which was
                    the important geographic entity to Van Riper and his friends: it was the township–or, in
                    some instances, just the immediate farm neighborhood. The writer eventually partly removed himself
                    from the provincial influences of these compact surroundings, but it is noteworthy that many of his
                    former neighbors did not. The isolation of the Harden-burgh community and of hundreds of other rural
                    communities in southern Indiana remained at least until the full-scale introduction of the
                    automobile more than a generation later.
            Van Riper's descriptions and anecdotes invite comparison with those incorporated in Edward
                    Eggleston's Hoosier School-Master.3
                The setting of
                    Eggleston's fictional account is earlier in time (the 1850's) and includes a
                    larger geographical area than Van Riper's recollections, but these two writers present
                    opposing value judgments on the life and culture of rural southern Indiana as they viewed it a few
                    generations ago. Eggleston's "Flat Crick deestrick" is one that a
                    schoolmaster, or anyone else, would prefer to flee from at the first opportunity. Van
                    Riper's Hardenburgh, Glixner, and Butlerville, however, are all attractive places,
                    inhabited by "friendly, hospitable, frugal and thrifty" people. Perhaps Van
                    Riper's judgment was mellowed by the intervening years so that he became unduly sentimental
                    about his former neighbors. But accounts such as his may lead to a more balanced appraisal of the
                    Hoosiers who have been rather seriously maligned in Eggleston's widely-read novel.
            The term "hill-billy," incorporated in the title of Van Riper's memoirs,
                    may have been an afterthought on the part of the writer. Nowhere in the text of the
                    "Reminiscences" is there any reference to it. The inclusion of the term is,
                    nevertheless, significant. As residents of southern Indiana are still reminded by
                    "outsiders," any inhabitant of the state living south of 
                        United States
                     40 may be the recipient of this epithet–even if he lives in level country.
                    Van Riper's good natured acceptance of the term to identify himself is but another
                    reflection of the pride he felt for his southern Indiana origin.
            
               
                  3 Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier School-Master (
                            New York
                        , 1871).
            
            
            Though he spent most of his youth and adult life in the state of Indiana, Van Riper was born (April
                    18, 1876) near Iola in 
                  Allen County, Kansas
               . Here his father, John Van Riper, had taken up a 160-acre
                    claim in the late 1850's. The elder Van Riper has migrated as a lad of seven from 
                        New York
                     to Indiana's 
                        Jennings County
                     with the Nathan Eveleth family to whom he was "bound out" until the
                    age of twenty-one. At nineteen, however, he headed westward through 
                        Illinois
                    , eventually established residence in 
                        Kansas
                    , served in the Union army, and fathered three children by his first wife. As a widower
                    he returned to 
                        Jennings County
                     to meet and marry Nancy McConnell 
                        Hammond
                    ; to this marriage was born Paul Van Riper.⋆ Shortly after Paul's
                    birth the Van Riper family returned to 
                        Jennings County
                    , this time settling near Hardenburgh (Hayden) in 
                        Spencer
                     Township, about twelve miles west of 
                        North Vernon
                    . This locality was the setting of Paul's earlier school experiences, both as
                    scholar and teacher.
            Paul Van Riper was licensed to teach immediately upon his graduation from Hayden High School in
                        1897.5 He held 
                  
                     4 Most of the information relating to Paul Van Eiper's
                            lineage and early childhood has been taken from an unpublished portion of the
                            "Reminiscences" entitled "Parentage" (pp. 4-11 of the
                            original manuscript). Paul Van Riper's mother (nee Nancy McConnell) was a widow,
                            having been married in 1858 to William 
                                Hammond
                            . A genealogical listing of the McConnell family is included in the
                            "Parentage" section of the manuscript, and a thermofaxed copy of it will
                            be deposited in the Genealogy Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Paul Van Riper had three full brothers and sisters, May, older than he, Maude
                            (now residing in Zionsville), and Harry. The term "bound out" refers to a
                            modified form of indentured servitude, a contractual labor system once conspicuous in the
                            seaboard colonies throughout the colonial period of American history. John Van
                            Riper's leaving the Eveleth family two years before the termination of his
                            "contract" was probably not an inviolable act; for the Indiana
                            Constitution of 1816, based on the Ordinance of 1787, prohibited "involuntary
                            servitude." An 1821 Indiana court decision applied this provision to indentured
                            servants. Carter Goodrich, "Indenture," Encyclopedia of the
                                Social Sciences, eds. Edwin R. A. Seligman and Alvin Johnson (12 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), VII-VIII, 644-48.
                  
                     5 Although Indiana teacher licensing procedures became steadily more
                            strigent following passage of the revised school law of 1865, the principal criterion for
                            judging a prospective teacher's qualifications was his tested knowledge, not his
                            formal training. The tests were prepared by the State Board of Education and administered by
                            a local examiner, in the case of Van Riper, probably by the county superintendent. Since Van
                            Riper had not yet acquired actual teaching experience, his initial license was probably a
                            temporary one. A general summary of Indiana's procedures for the certification of
                            teachers during the latter decades of the past century is in 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 321-23.
               
                     various teaching positions in 
                        Spencer
                     Township over a period of seven years while working summers toward a degree at Indiana
                    University in 
                        Bloomington
                    . In 1906 he transferred to 
                        Franklin
                     College and received a Ph.B. degree from that institution the next year. The autumn
                    following his graduation from 
                        Franklin
                     College he accepted a position as assistant principal (and teacher) at 
                        Franklin
                     High School, and a year later he assumed the principalship of this same school. He held
                    this position until 1910 when he became superintendent of the 
                        Franklin city
                     schools. Meanwhile, Van Riper had matriculated at 
                        Columbia
                     University (
                        New York City
                    ) for graduate study. In 1912 he reecived a Master of Arts degree from 
                        Columbia
                     University and a Master of Education degree from Teachers College (
                        Columbia
                    ).6
            
            In 1911 Van Riper married Margaret Pritchard, a former Latin teacher at 
                        Franklin
                     High School. To this marriage was born (1916) one son, Paul Pritchard Van Riper,
                    referred to in the "Reminiscences" as "Paul, Jr."7 Just prior to the birth of his son, Van Riper became superintendent of city schools in 
                        La Porte
                     but resigned this post during the latter part of World War I to become an officer in
                    the 
                        United States
                     Sanitary Corps. Following his discharge from service in the summer of 1919 he was
                    employed by the First National Bank in 
                        Franklin
                    , and one year later he assumed the super-intendency of the 
                        Lebanon city
                     schools–a position he held until his retirement in 1942.
            The twenty-two year phase of Van Riper's career as administrative head of the 
                        Lebanon
                     school system is barely 
                  
                     6 Van Riper attended Indiana University in 1898, 1901, 1902, 1904, and
                            1906. According to the Office of Records, 
                                Franklin
                             College, "At the time of Mr. Van Riper's attendance at 
                                Franklin
                             College, three degrees were awarded–the A.B., B.S. and Ph.B. was
                            awarded in English, 
                                German
                            , history, and Latin, while Greek rated an A.B. The B.S. degree related to the
                            natural sciences." Van Riper was enrolled in the School of Graduate Faculties of 
                                Columbia
                             University during the summer sessions of 1909, 1910, 1911, and 1912, and was
                            awarded the Master of Arts degree in October, 1912. Apparently he received another degree
                            from Teachers College, 
                                Columbia
                            , at the same time. Archives, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; David C. Naile to Victor M. Bogle, June 29, 1965; Charles 
                                Seymour
                            , Assistant to the Registrar, 
                                Columbia
                             University, to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, August 20, 1965.
                  
                     7 The younger Van Riper indicates that technically he is not a
                            "junior," since he has a different middle name.
               
                     mentioned in the "Reminiscences." His brief
                    summarization of his 
                        Lebanon
                     experience ("We have a good organization, fair equipment and adequate
                    buildings") is a prosaic statement by a man whose chief labors would ultimately be judged
                    on the basis of public record. Tributes paid to him immediately following his death (September 18,
                    1944) were much less reserved. "The tall, stately form of Paul Van Riper will be sadly
                    missed by everyone who had any connection with him," wrote a girl student at 
                        Lebanon
                     High School; and the president of the 
                        Lebanon
                     School Board testified that "his administration of school affairs set a high
                    standard of efficiency, fidelity and honor which was an example for all those who came in contact
                    with him." Still another statement from one of his 
                        Lebanon
                     colleagues stands as a most expressive eulogy:
                        A book could be written on his achievements but to me one phase of his philosophy stands out.
                            Having attained greatness by hard knocks and with great dificulty, he insisted that every
                            boy and girl, regardless of position, should have an equal chance to obtain an education.
                            Hundreds of our alumni owe their success to his kindness and encouragement.8
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  8 These quotations have been taken from undated, unidentified newspaper
                        clippings in a scrapbook made available by the Van Riper family. Further insight into Paul Van
                        Riper's "style" as a public school administrator comes from Mr.
                        Clarence V. Haworth, superintendent of the 
                            Kokomo
                         school system from 1914 to 1944. "Paul Van Riper had a firm grip on all
                        departments of his school system," stated Haworth in a recent interview. "He
                        was quick in his actions and positive in what he had to say." Personal interview with
                        Clarence V. Haworth, June, 1965
            
            
            THE REMINISCENCES OF A HILL-BILLY1
            
            Seeing with memory's eyes, there is no place so beautiful, so hospitable, so glamorous, as a
                    certain region in southern Indiana, where I spent my happy boyhood years.
            The woods with their great beeches, sturdy oaks, tall poplars, black and sweet gums, tough hickories
                    and black walnuts, brightened by the bloom of dogwood and redbud in the spring and by thousands of
                    varying shades of color in the autumn, present a series of beautiful and unforgetable pictures.
            The narrow dirt roads winding over the hills and through the the valleys, dusty in summer and muddy
                    or frozen in winter, flanked by rail fences often over run by blackberry briars and wild rose
                    bushes, over which I walked to school, or rode horseback to mill, or went with the family to church,
                    or traversed in a high wheeled buggy on a moonlit night, a fair one by my side, to a party or to a
                    dance, are not mere roads, but avenues leading to fairyland.
            The pastures where cattle, sheep and horses grazed, the valleys of corn, oats and wheat, the meadows
                    of clover and timothy, the orchards of apples, peaches, pears and smaller fruits, the waste land
                    covered with sumac and sassafras, present an ever changing panorama of beauty.
            The winding creek bordered with willows, elms and sycamores, with deep shady holes for fishing and
                    swimming 
                  
                     1 This document in its original form is a typed manuscript. Though
                            good at the "hunt and peck" system, the author was not a trained typist;
                            and at the contributor's request, the most obvious typographical and grammatical
                            errors have been corrected in this reproduction. Apostrophes, for example, have been added
                            to show possession; and such apparent misspellings as "appluing" and
                            "oppositite" have been corrected. Obviously unintentional repetitions have
                            been omitted, but all other deletions are indicated by ellipses. Paragraphing and
                            punctuation remain as Van Riper typed them, except for a few instances in which he placed
                            commas rather than periods or periods instead of question marks at the end of sentences. In
                            a number of cases, such as the word "threashing" the original spelling has
                            been maintained in order to retain the flavor of the article and to preserve the
                            author's style. Van Riper's capitalization is also unchanged. Towns and
                            schools mentioned in the document are not identified, nor are the author's
                            schoolmates and teachers or fellow superintendents and principals unless they made
                            outstanding contributions in some field. Whenever possible full names or initials have been
                            supplied in brackets the first time a name is mentioned. The subheadings or chapter headings
                            which the author used are indicated in this reproduction in boldface type. The original
                            manuscript is in the possession of the author's son, Paul Pritchard Van Riper, who
                            is professor of public administration at Cornell University, 
                        Ithaca, New
                            York
                     .
               
                     in summer and for skating and trapping in winter, brings back
                    to me a marvelous memory of pleasure and delight.
            The modest but comfortable homes, well filled barns and corn cribs signify, if not great abundance,
                    at least plenty.
            The people, friendly, hospitable, frugal and thrifty still welcome me with a cheery word and a smile,
                    and the taste of cider, milk, gingerbread and apples eaten in friendly visits to the homes of
                    relatives and boyhood friends, lingers with me still.
            This particular section [
                        Spencer
                     Township, 
                        Jennings County
                    ] of south central Indiana, sloping gently to the south west was, somewhat like ancient
                    Gaul, divided into three parts. The South section was settled by a colony of 
                        German
                     immigrants who had left their former homes and came to America following the
                    revolutions of 1830 and 1848. The northeast section was peopled by settlers from New 
                        England
                     and other eastern states. The north west part of the Township was settled by a rather
                    mixed group among whom were many Quakers from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            Each of these groups while differing in traditions, customs and religions, were sturdy, wholesome,
                    hardworking, honest, hospitable and God-fearing people.
            The 
                        German
                     People located about their church and school. These were built in the valley of Sixmile
                    creek, centrally situated so that the pealing of the Church bell could be heard throughout the
                    entire community. Because of the beautiful setting of the Church and School, the place was called 
                        Buena Vista
                    .
            The Quakers built their Church and School at a cross road and named the place for one of their
                    leaders. (Fleming)
            The settlers from New 
                        England
                     built a small village near the center of the Township near the little stream that
                    flowed to the south-west. Here were erected the Methodist and Baptist Churches, the school, the
                    grist and saw mills, the blacksmith shop and the general store. When the railroad came it passed
                    through this village and in the course of time the village became the business center of the entire
                        community.2 It became the receiving and shipping point of all 
                  
                     2 The railroad to which Van Riper refers is probably the Ohio and 
                                Mississippi
                            –now the 
                                Baltimore
                             and 
                                Ohio
                            –which crossed southern Indiana in the late 1850's. A
                            charter for this company received the sanction of the Indiana legislature in 1848, and the
                            railroad was built between 1849 and 1857 from 
                                Cincinnati
                             to 
                                St. Louis
                            . In Indiana the
               
                     commerce. Here the people came to get their mail, here they
                    came to trade, here they voted at election times, here the three types of people mingled freely six
                    days in the week, but on the Sabbath Day each group centered about its own religious home.
            
                    SCHOOL DAYS.
                
            In the early eighties education had made great strides from the old log cabin schools of early
                    Indiana. It was the day of the little red school house. These little frame one room buildings, and
                    strange as it may appear rarely painted red, dotted every township. They were topped with a cupola
                    in which hung the bell. On a clear cold day the pealing of the bell summoning the children to school
                    could be heard from all points in the school district.
            The furniture was simple. In front sat the teacher's desk and chair. The recitation bench
                    where the pupils sat to recite was just in front of the teacher's desk. Back of the
                    recitation bench and placed in rows were the double pupils' study desks, the smaller desks
                    in front and those for the older pupils in the rear. A large box stove that would burn three foot
                    lengths of wood sat in the middle of the room. The larger boys carried in the wood and in cold
                    weather helped the teacher fire the stove. The stove pipe rose from the rear of the stove to a point
                    near the ceiling, then took off at right angles, supported by wires from the ceiling, to the chimney
                    at the front end of the building. When the weather was cold the pupils nearest the stove burned and
                    those over by the windows shivered. If the teacher had a yen for the comfort of his pupils, on a
                    cold day there would be a constant movement of pupils to and from the stove. But woe unto the pupil
                    who dropped a piece of rubber or other evil smelling stuff on the stove.
            The blackboard, usually just the plaster painted black, ran across the front of the room. Two or
                    three chairs for visitors also sat in front. In one corner there was usually 
                  
                     
                                Baltimore
                             and Ohio passed through 
                        Lawrenceburg, Aurora, Vernon
                     – the village in 
                                Jennings County
                             which Van Riper describes–
                        Seymour, Mitchell
                     , and 
                                Vincennes
                            . Victor M. Bogle, "Railroad Building in Indiana, 1850-1855,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, LVIII (September, 1962), 219-20; John D.
                            Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                                Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 33; Logan Esarey, The History of Indiana from Its
                                Exploration to 1850 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), II, 227-28.
               
                     a high stool for disciplinary purposes. Sometimes a primary
                    chart stood on a tripod by the side of the teacher's desk. Nearly always a few switches cut
                    from nearby trees stood in the corner opposite the stool. If the teacher was unusually enterprising
                    he secured a home made book case and a few books bought from a school exhibition or from a box or
                    pie supper.3
            
            Occasionally a picture of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     or George 
                        Washington
                     adorned the walls.
            The playground was fenced off from the surrounding fields by a rail fence. One half was devoted to
                    the use of boys and the other part to the girls.
            Back of the schoolhouse or to one side was the woodhouse. This was filled with wood during the summer
                    months. Sometimes the wood shed was large enough to house the teacher's horse when he rode
                    to school.
            On opposite corners of the lot and well back from the road were built "Chic Sale
                    Houses" what Chic would call "three seaters" with one seat a little lower
                    and a little smaller than the other two seats for use of the smaller pupils. These houses were open
                    to flies in spring, summer and fall and were usually in a sad state of sanitation.4
            
            Water for drinking purposes was drawn from a well on the school yard or more often carried from a
                    spring or from a neighboring farmhouse. As a special favor about four times a day, the older pupils
                    were permitted to get a bucket of water and pass the water along the aisles to the pupils. All drank
                    from the same cup or dipper. If a pupil did not drink all handed him, the water remaining in the
                    dipper was thrown out the window or more often put back in the bucket.
            The schoolyard was not covered by stone or gravel as are schoolyards now, nor were there many gravel
                    or stone 
                  
                     3 At pie or box suppers girls of the community brought pies or boxes
                            of food which were auctioned off to the highest bidder. The purchaser then had the privilege
                            of eating with the owner. Quite often there was keen competition between the young men who
                            wished to eat with a certain girl, and a pie or box would sell for several dollars. Proceeds
                            of the supper were usually used for school equipment, books, or similar community project.
                  
                     4 "Chic Sale Houses" were outdoor privies, so called
                            because a rural humorist of the 1920's, Charles (Chic) Sale, used them as one of
                            the chief themes in his repertoire of stories. For example, see Charles (Chic) Sale, The Specialist (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1929). Van Riper has applied the term which did not become prevalent until the
                            second decade of the twentieth century to an earlier period in his life. The society which
                            he describes here would not have recognized the phrase.
               
                     walks. What was the need when the school yard was less dusty or
                    muddy than the roads the children tramped to school?
            The pupils comprised all the children of the district sometimes numbering fifty or more, and varying
                    in age from five to twenty-one years. Many of the older boys would not enter school until after
                    wheat sowing and corn cutting and after the winter supply of wood was cut. Frequently some of the
                    pupils were older than the teacher. The school term was rarely more than six months.
            The teacher of this district school might be either a man or woman. A license to teach was secured by
                    taking an examination on the common school subjects and the "Science of Education"
                    at the county seat under the direction of the County Superintendent of Schools. A teaching position
                    was secured by applying to the Trustee of the Township.
            The curriculum was as simple as the building. The emphasis was placed on reading, writing, spelling
                    and arithmetic or ciphering. The upper grades studied geography, history, grammar and physiology.
                    There was little time for music even if the teacher could sing and it was a brave teacher who dared
                    to attempt to teach drawing or art.
            The games played by the pupils at recesses and noon were also simple: town-ball, two or three
                    cornered cat, shinny, duck-on-Davy, fox and geese, follow the leader, whip-cracker, piggie, running,
                    jumping and wrestling were indulged in by the boys. The girls played drop the handkerchief,
                    blackman, blind man's buff, three deep and similar games. Occasionally the older boys and
                    girls joined in some of the singing, dancing games as Old Dan Tucker, weevley wheat and skip to my
                        Lou.5
            
            The teacher must needs be a good disciplinarian. If not there was soon a vacancy. Often pupils were
                    older and larger than the teacher. Corporal punishment was meted out on the slightest provocation.
                    Many of the punishments administered were unique. Whipping with a good tough switch was perhaps the
                    most common. For minor infractions of the rules there was the stool in the corner with its dunce
                    cap, or the pupil was stood in the corner facing the wall and made to stand on 
                  
                     5 For a description of some of the games which Van Riper mentions see
                            Leah 
                                Jackson
                             Wolford, The Play-Party in Indiana: A Collection of Folk Songs and
                                Games with Descriptive Introduction and Correlating Notes (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. IV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916).
               
                     one foot. Some teachers were very ingenious in thinking up
                    unusual punishments. Some used a ruler and smacked the pupil on the palms of one or both hands, or
                    had children stand and hold out one or both hands, or made them kneel on a round stick, or sit on
                    the teacher's desk. Pupils were frequently cuffed with a book on the side of the head or
                    given a good shaking or slapped soundly on the ear. Occasionally a teacher would throw a book or a
                    piece of chalk or an eraser at a youngster who was idling away his time. I knew one teacher who had
                    a dictionary with all the pages loose. Woe to the pupil that incurred that teacher's ire.
                    With unerring aim that dictionary would hit the luckless urchin on the head or shoulder and the
                    loose leaves would fly to the four corners of the room. Then the poor kid had an all day job
                    gathering up the leaves and placing them in order between the covers.
            But all honor to the little red school houses and the district schools. They served the people well.
                    They met adequately the needs of the time. They laid the foundation for the finest citizenry of any
                    age. Many of the teachers were men and women of fine character, intellect and personality. Many
                    successful men and women received their inspiration and outlook from faithful but unsung teachers in
                    the district schools.
            I started to school in the little village of Hardenburg, now called Hayden. This was a new building
                    taking the place of a frame two room school where sister May first went to school. The new building
                    was a three room brick structure. The primary room housed grades 1 and 2; the intermediate room
                    grades [3, 4 and 5;] and the principal's room grades 6, 7 and 8. There was no high school
                    at that time.
            My first school equipment consisted of a McGuffey Eclectic Primer,6 a slate and a
                    slate pencil. Those slates, how a teacher of health today would abhor them. Each pupil from 
                  
                     6 In 1836 William Holmes McGuffey agreed to edit a series of eclectic
                            readers for Truman and Smith, a small 
                                Cincinnati
                             publishing house. The series included a primer, spelling book, and four
                            readers. Within a few years the McGuffey Eclectic Readers attained great
                            popularity and became the standard text in most midwestern common schools. In 1853 the
                            Indiana State Board of Education recommended the adoption of the Indiana
                                Readers, compiled from the McGuffey series, as the uniform text for the state.
                            Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1892), 266-67; Indiana, Second Annual Report of the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction for the State of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1853), 14-15. See also Harvey C. Minnich, William Holmes McGuffey
                                and His Readers (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1936).
               
                     the primer through the eighth grade had a slate. A few of the
                    girls had slate rags to clean their slates, but we boys disdained the "slate rags"
                    as being effeminate and cleaned our slates by spitting on them and wiping them off with our hands or
                    coat sleeves. Often the slates were ruled on one side for writing. This was done by using a ruler
                    and running a knife point along the ruler on the slate to make the lines. These slates made a great
                    deal of noise, so the teachers asked us usually to have our fathers tack a piece of woolen cloth or
                    felt around the side of the frame. These slates were single and double. The double slates were two
                    single slates hinged together, and were of all sizes. I used a slate all through my grade course and
                    never used a lead pencil and tablet or ink and paper until I reached the fourth grade and then used
                    ink or pencil only when writing in our copy books or writing a composition. The first year I
                    completed the primer and first reader, learned to spell simple words and to write.
            In the second grade in addition to reading, writing and spelling, we had mental arithmetic.7
            
            In the third grade we studied Geography. Geography was the joy of my life. It opened my eyes to wider
                    fields of vision. In my imagination I traveled to all countries and played with children of all
                    climes. But I liked best what the geography said about the Indians. I wept over the last speech of
                    Blackhawk, that great Indian Chief, following his defeat. That speech was printed in full in that
                    first geography of mine.8
            
            Copy books in which we first used ink came in the fourth grade. Each desk was equipped with two ink
                    wells. Each 
                  
                     7 The biennial reports of the State Superintendent of Public
                            Instruction list "arithmetic–oral lessons" as a part of the
                            course of study for the second grade in the Indiana common schools. Van Riper may have been
                            referring to this subject when he speaks of mental arithmetic. In an article describing the
                            development of the Indiana city school system Harold Littell refers to mental arithmetic as
                            a subject taught in the 
                                Terre Haute
                             schools in 1865, dropped a few years later, then revived. For example, see
                            Indiana, Thirty-Second Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of
                                the State of Indiana Being the Twelfth Biennial Report … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1884), 101, 189; Harold Littell, "Development of the City School
                            System of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XII (December,
                            1916), 312.
                  
                     8 According to the biennial reports of the Superintendent of Public
                            Instruction 
                        
                                    Mitchell
                                's Geography was used as a text in most Indiana common schools
                            in the 1870's and 1880's. This is probably the geography to which Van
                            Riper refers. For example, see Indiana, Twenty-Second Report of the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction of the State of Indiana Being the Seventh Biennial
                                Report … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1874), 157.
               
                     pupil had a wooden pen holder and one or more pen points. I had
                    a gorgeous pen wiper made of several colors of soft cloth sewed together and attached to a string so
                    the wiper could be tied to the iron of the desk. I did not keep that wiper long. I fell in love with
                    Katie McGinty and soon that wiper was adorning her desk and I wiped my pen with an old rag.
            We were not permitted to keep ink in our desks but placed the ink bottles on a shelf prepared for
                    them in one corner of the room. When we needed ink we replenished our ink wells from our bottles.
                    During cold spells the ink in the bottles would freeze. One cold morning I found my ink frozen. I
                    put my bottle on the big stove to thaw, but forgot to remove or loosen the cork. Soon steam formed
                    in the bottle, the cork flew out with loud pop, and most of the ink followed the cork to the
                    ceiling. That big blotch of ink remained on the ceiling all the two years I was in that room. The
                    only use we made of pens and ink in the fourth, fifth and sixth grades, were the times we wrote so
                    carefully in our copybooks and when we copied our written compositions on legal-cap paper after
                    writing the first draft on our slates.
            Physiology, grammar and 
                        United States
                     history were added to our list of subjects in the seventh grade. I can to this day name
                    all the bones in my body, beginning with the bones of the head, frontal, occipital, Pareitals,
                    temporals, ethnoid and spehnoid.9 I can still trace a drop of blood through its
                    supposed course through the body. I can draw a fine cross section of the eye. I can name all my
                    teeth and many of the muscles of the body, but I learned very little about health and hygiene and
                    how to take care of my eyes and teeth and bones and muscles. But it was great mental gymnastics and
                    we enjoyed it.
            Grammar was the bane of my existence but by persistent effort on my part and more on the part of the
                    teachers, I finally learned my conjugations and the fact that the verb must agree with the subject
                    in -....., well I admit that is a little hazy in my mind yet.
            History I enjoyed tremendously. We did not do much thinking from cause to effect. But we learned a
                    lot of facts 
                  
                     9 Although Van Eiper misspelled or mistyped parietal, ethmoid, and
                            sphenoid, his memory was accurate in that all bones named are found in the head.
               
                     and dates and about a lot of battles etc. History succeeded
                    geography as my favorite subject of study.
            It was in the seventh grade that I had my first man teacher. Mr. [H. B.] Weaver was elderly,
                    bald-headed with a fringe of red hair, smooth shaven, gruff and severe. He belonged to the school
                    that believed in, "no lickin no larnin". We trembled in our boots when he spoke
                    sharply. He chewed fine cut tobacco which he carried in his pocket in a tin box. He held the spit in
                    his mouth as long as he could talk, then he would go to the stove, raise the lid, and squirt in the
                    fire a quarter pint, more or less, of tobacco juice and then resume the work of the class.
            Mr. Weaver had been brought there to subdue a few larger and older boys who had made life miserable
                    for the previous teacher.
            My foundation in arithmetic was faulty. In fact the foundation was anything but secure. It actually
                    wobbled. I had not mastered my combinations or tables. I could make it on my fingers if given time
                    enough, but that did not satisfy Mr. Weaver. So after struggling along with me for two months, he
                    sent a note to my father saying that he might as well take me out of school as I could not learn the
                    multiplication tables. My father had been a teacher. He took me out of school and fitted me out with
                    a desk and stool in the store. There I sat for six hours a day for the remaining four months of that
                    school year learning arithmetic under Dad's direction. That four months sufficed for me to
                    learn the fundamental operations thoroughly and to work every problem in Ray's Third Part
                        Arithmetic.10 The next year I went back to school and led my class in
                    arithmetic.
            My schooling for the first seven years was all in the little town school there at Hardenburg. The
                    eighth year, because I did not like Mr. Weaver and because my father felt he was not the right type
                    of man for a teacher, I attended the Wohrer district school. This was a one room school two miles
                    west of town. I walked that two miles twice each day over a mud road. Father said it was good
                    exercise. Now 
                  
                     10 In addition to the McGuffey Readers, 
                                    Mitchell
                                's Geography, and others, the Indiana State Board of Education
                            in 1853 suggested Ray's Arithmetic (I-III) as the uniform text
                            for the state. 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 267; Indiana, Second Annual Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the State of
                                Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1853), 14-15.
               
                     we haul the children to school in a heated bus and hire a
                    teacher to exercise them after they get there.
            The move to the new school was justified. The teacher, Miss Rosa Tierney, was excellent and I learned
                    more in that year than in any preceeding year after I got out of the primary room.
            When I was about eleven years old father decided it was time I learn to speak the 
                        German
                     Language. So he made arrangements for me to attend the summer Catholic Church School of 
                        Buena Vista
                    , two miles south of Hayden. So for two summers I walked the two miles to school and
                    spent the day following the program laid out for the Catholic boys and girls. That program was about
                    as follows;– 
                  Attendance at Mass at the church near the school. I was not compelled to attend but did so
                            quite regularly.
                  Learning the Catechism.
                  Reading lesson in 
                                German
                            .
                  Writing lesson in 
                                German
                            .
                  Conversational 
                                German
                            .
                  
                     
                                German
                             Songs and Stories.
                  Learning and reciting 
                                German
                             Selections.
                The Priest in charge was Father Neuhoffer, a tall, dignified looking man. The teacher was
                    Herr Heitz who was short and fat.
            Attendance at this school was a fine experience. The friendships formed there have been lasting and
                    pleasant. Later when I was ready to teach the Trustee was requested to send me to teach the Glixner
                    School just a mile east of 
                        Buena Vista
                    . Then I learned to respect the faith and integrity of those fine 
                        German
                     people. Incidentally I also learned a little of the 
                        German
                     Language and more of 
                        German
                     character and customs. Then I thoroughly enjoyed going there to school.
            A number of incidents took place during those two summers that I shall never forget.
            Soon after I enrolled, Herr Heitz asked Ed. Nordloh to teach me a 
                        German
                     poem to recite before the school. I knew some 
                        German
                     but many words were new to me. Ed. was a good teacher. I was soon ready with my
                    selection. When I was called upon for my rendition, I walked proudly to the front, made my bow and
                    started in. I had not gone far when Herr Heitz jumped up, grabbed me by the collar and said,  "Is that the selection taught you by Ed.
                    Nordloh?" I assured him that it was. "All right, you are not to blame. Go to your
                    seat." He then went to his desk, got a strap, called Ed. to the front and how he did
                    lambast him. But Ed. said it was worth it. I did not realize until the boys explained just what Ed
                    had taught me. It was a poem that is not generally recited in polite society.
            Herr Heitz liked his booze. One dark, very warm, cloudy day he came in at noon with about three
                    sheets in the wind.11 He laid his head down on the desk and went to sleep. Some
                    of the boys suggested that we turn the clock up to closing time and then awaken him. We did so. Herr
                    Heitz woke up, stretched, yawned and then glanced at the clock. He sprang up from his chair
                    exclaiming, "Why did not you tell me?" He then hurriedly dismissed school. Then
                    all we boys went down to Six Mile Creek and spent the afternoon swimming. The next morning,
                    following the lesson on the Catechism, Father Neuhoffer walked in. He called all of us out one by
                    one and gave each of us a good dressing down with his rattan cane.
            Take it all in all those two summers were an interesting and unique experience.
            Hayden had no High School when I completed the eighth grade. So I continued on in the eighth grade
                    taking grammar, history, book-keeping and higher arithmetic.
            Finally a High School was organized in 1894 and four pupils, Shepherd Whitcomb, Florence Wohrer,
                    Florence Downs and I completed the course in three years and graduated in March 1897.
            Shepherd and I came near not being graduated. Wednesday of the last week of school was a warm,
                    beautiful, spring day. Shepherd brought a pocket full of onion sets to school. Six of us boys ate of
                    the forbidden fruit. When school was called the room reeked with the unholy smell. The Principal,
                    Mr. [J. Calvin] Faris, after a few caustic remarks, excused us six boys until noon with the
                    injunction that we procure something to renovate our breath. Just as we left the building, we
                    learned that a freight train had been wrecked on the B. & 0. Railroad about four miles west
                    of town. We decided 
                  
                     11 "Three sheets in the wind and the other one
                            flapping" is a slang phrase prevalent in southern Indiana meaning partly or
                            completely intoxicated.
               
                     to walk to the wreck. On the way we made up a pony purse12 and Howard Kendrick and I took the money and went to buy cider at the Wallace
                    Downs Farm. We bought three quart bottles and Mattie Downs gave us a small bottle to take back to
                    Mr. Faris. When we arrived at the wreck we discovered that the other boys had ridden back to town on
                    a handcar. So Howard and I started back that long four miles carrying the cider. We finally decided
                    that the cider would carry easier if we drank it. We consumed most of the contents of the three
                    bottles saving a little in two of them to show the boys that we had really spent the money for
                    cider. The boys met us at the edge of the school ground. School was just being dismissed for the
                    noon hour. The pupils were marching out in a long line that extended nearly to the railroad. There
                    were some chickens in the yard led by a big red rooster. The boys were trying to take the bottles
                    from us. I ran toward the chickens. Then I thought how funny it would be to chase that rooster
                    through the marching lines. I did so. The line wavered and then broke ranks and gathered around us
                    boys. Prof. Faris came up and I presented him with the bottle sent by Mattie with her compliments. I
                    thought he was going to have apoplexy but he recovered sufficiently to tell us boys that we were
                    suspended from school until suitable apologies were made for our conduct.
            We retired to the steps of the Baptist Church near by and went into executive session. After much
                    discussion and many efforts we succeeded in drafting a suitable apology for our conduct. We all
                    signed it and sent a committee to wait on Mr. Faris. He after another lecture accepted our
                    composition and permitted us to return to school and Shepherd and I to graduate with our class.
            My sister Maud asserts to this day that I eternally disgraced the family by my conduct that day.
            Years after I asked Mr. Faris, now an attorney in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, if he really thought that Howard and I that day had too much cider. He
                    replied, "No, I don't think you had too much but I think that you had
                    plenty."
            
               
                  12 The word "pony" in this context is a slang term which
                        means to pay money, especially in the settlement of an account. It is generally used with the
                        word "up" and is similar to the expression "ante up." Van
                        Riper and his friends probably contributed equal amounts of money toward the purchase of the
                        cider.
            
            
            I shall never forget our graduating exercises. They were held in the Baptist Church. The building was
                    crowded to the doors. The class marched in with solemn tread and took their places on the platform.
                    Each graduate delivered an oration. I was last with a famous oration which I had painfully cribbed
                    from magazines and newspapers on the subject, "
                        Cuba
                     Libre." Then followed the commencement address by A. E. [Albert Edward]
                    Wiggam, now a world famous author and authority on Eugenics.13 Prof. Faris
                    presented us with our diplomas and then we were dismissed to receive the greetings of our friends.
            
                    My Teachers.
                
            In general I have been fortunate in my teachers.
            My first teacher was Emma Whitcomb. She was excellent. She afterwards was selected as a primary
                    teacher in the 
                  Little Rock, Arkansas
                Schools and made a splendid record there. We think
                    of Phonics in primary work today as fairly modern. But Miss Whitcomb taught us phonics more than
                    fifty years ago. I remember well the day she took six of us first grade pupils to the County
                    Teachers' Institute14 at 
                        North Vernon
                     and with us as a class demonstrated the teaching of phonics in reading. Miss Emma was
                    strict but just and I progressed splendidly in her room my first two years of school.
            
               
                  13 Only twenty-six when he spoke at Van Riper's commencement,
                        Albert Edward Wiggam was born in Austin, Indiana, October 8, 1871. He had graduated from 
                            Hanover
                         College in 1893 with a B.S. degree, completing both classical and scientific
                        courses in three and one half years. Wiggam received an M.S. from Moore's Hill College
                        (Evans-ville), Indiana, in 1903 and later published several books on eugenics and education. Who's Who in America, 1918-1919.
               
               
                  14 In 1865 the Indiana legislature passed an act requiring county
                        examiners to hold a yearly institute for the instruction of teachers in their counties. The
                        institutes, the purpose of which was "to impart a knowledge of the principles and
                        methods of teaching and school management," must continue for five days during which
                        time schools were closed. The State Superintendent of Public Instruction credited the county
                        institutes with doing more to improve the methods of instruction in the common schools than
                        almost any other instrumentality. Boone in his History of Education in Indiana
                        described the institute as constituting a "most helpful means among the agencies for the
                        training of teachers." 
                            Boone
                        , History of Education in Indinaa, 393-99; see also, Indiana, Twenty-Fourth Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of the State of
                            Indiana Being the Eighth Biennial Report … (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1876), 39, 89; William 0. Lynch, "The Great Awakening: A Chapter in the
                        Educational History of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XLI
                        (June, 1945), 123-24.
            
            
            My second teacher was Miss Jessie McClanahan. She was a relative of the Devores (Good Democrats) and
                    had graduated from the High School in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . She was young and always smiling. But she had no order. We did about as we pleased. We
                    got along fine but she was not to be compared to Miss Whitcomb.
            Following Miss McClanahan came Miss Jennie Carver. She was very tall and slender. She had some
                    difficulty reducing our room to order following the lax discipline of the teacher preceeding her.
                    She taught that room two years while I completed the fourth and fifth grades. Those two years were
                    without special interest except for one incident. Miss Carver had punished Will Swarthout and
                    Charley Hartpence for some offence now obscure and had incurred their dire displeasure. So that
                    night those two boys sat on the fence just across the road from Miss Carver's home and for
                    an hour serenaded her with this ditty sung as loud as their voices would permit.
            
                    I'll never marry an old maid,
                    I'll tell you the reason why.
                    Her neck is so long and gangling,
                    I'm afraid she would never die.
                
            H. B. Weaver, mentioned before as having sent my father word that I could not learn the
                    multiplication tables, was a unique character. Brusk, a strict if not harsh disciplinarian, perhaps
                    the times demanded the services of his kind. But to do him justice many regarded him as a fine
                    instructor and he taught for many years in 
                        Spencer
                     Township. I mentioned before about his chewing tobacco in school. One day when he
                    stumbled over Earl Goodhue's long, bare legs which were generally out in the aisle, he
                    turned around and squirted a mouthful of tobacco on Earl's legs and told him that if he did
                    not keep his legs under the desk that he would spit all over him. On another occasion he threatened
                    to put Mike Fox in the big, box stove. We younger pupils were deathly afraid of him. Father and
                    other patrons finally succeeded in having him removed from the Hayden Schools but he continued to
                    teach in the Township.
            W. L. Morrison was a fine man and an excellent teacher. He came from Scottsburg where he had made a
                    fine record as a teacher. He had a fine sense of humor and was a general  favorite with all the students except Rollin Barnum, whom Mr. Morrison
                    would occasionally address as P. T. I made excellent progress under him. He was kind and patient and
                    never tired of explaining some difficulty to a slow student.
            Miss Rosa Tierney taught the year I attended the Wohrer School. She was a snappy black eyed Irish
                    girl, and an excellent teacher. She gave me my first real insight into English Grammar, and I really
                    began to like the subject. She never permitted us to whisper unless we asked permission and called
                    the roll each evening before dismissal and we answered whispered, or perfect. I lied regularly each
                    evening all that winter. That is the only part of her school pedagogy that I ever questioned.
            One day as we were going to school one of the boys found a large cocoon. We asked Miss Tierney what
                    it was. She placed it on a shelf where we could all see it and told us that if we ever saw it move
                    to tell her. One warm spring day some urchin saw the cocoon move and called Miss Tierney's
                    attention to it. She placed the cocoon down on her table, called us all around her to watch what
                    happened. We saw it break its wrappings and a long slimy object slowly crawl forth. Then slowly it
                    unfolded its wings and soon a beautiful moth was fluttering around the room. Then the teacher told
                    us the life history of the moth and ended with these words which I have never forgotten,
                    "If that ugly cocoon can grow into such a beautiful moth, is there any reason why you boys
                    and girls cannot grow into beautiful personalities as men and women?"
            W. N. Parks came to the Hayden Schools from 
                        Lexington
                    , Indiana. He was tall and spare and his eyes were crossed. I never could tell when he
                    was looking at me. He loved to sing and we sang each morning. He would get out on the school yard
                    and play games with us. He was usually pleasant but he had quite a temper and occasionally handled
                    some of the boys pretty rough. One day he punished Harry Arbuckle. Harry ran home and reported to
                    his Dad. Jim Arbuckle the father came over to interview Mr. Parks. During the conversation Arbuckle
                    threatened to straighten up Parks' eyes if he ever laid hands on Harry again. Mr. Parks
                    observed that then was as good a time as any to have his eyes straightened and he  sailed in on Mr. Arbuckle. Parks had all the best of the fight.
                    Arbuckle soon had enough and said so and the fight ended. It was a good show while it lasted and
                    provided quite a bit of excitement and village gossip.
            M. [Manfred] W. Deputy came from Marion Township, over across the Muscatatuck River. He was a College
                    graduate, tall, with a soft, slow speech and a kindly smile. He saw that a few of us should not
                    study the common branches longer and introduced some advanced subjects, including Bookkeeping,
                    Algebra, General History and Advanced Grammar. In this quiet way Hayden High School was organized.
            Mr. Deputy is one of the finest characters I have ever known. He was a frequent visitor at our home
                    and we had many fine walks and talks together. He gave me my first ambition to complete a High
                    School Course and attend College. He later had a splendid career as a teacher at the Whitewater
                    State Normal, 
                        Wisconsin
                     [now Wisconsin State College, Whitewater, 
                        Wisconsin
                    ], Head of the teachers training school at 
                        Kansas City
                    , Mo., Prof, of Education at 
                        Mankato
                    , Minn. [
                        Mankato
                     State College, 
                  Mankato, Minnesota
               ], and then President of the Minn.
                    State Normal School at Bimiji [Bemidji State College, Bemidji, 
                        Minnesota
                    ]. I owe much to Manfred Deputy.
            I completed my High School Course under J. C. Faris. He was a graduate of Indiana University and his
                    home was at 
                        Bloomington
                    . At present he is an attorney at 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, and at the last meeting of the Indiana Legislature (1939) he was the
                    parliamentarian in the House. Mr. Faris urged me to complete my High School Course and was
                    responsible for my attending Indiana University. To him I also attribute my love for History. He
                    made History real to us. He was but a few years older than I and we attended many parties and dances
                    together. We would usually ride horseback. He was always ready for a good time outside school but in
                    school he was business personified. He and I occasionally called at the Wallace Downs'.
                    Florence Downs was a class mate and Mr. Faris was attracted by her older sister Mattie. They were
                    fine jolly girls and excellent dancers. One night as we were on our way to the Downs' Farm,
                    we thought how funny it would be to ride our horses up the broad front walk to the old fashioned
                    front door. We did so,  knocked, and the girls opened the door.
                    They screamed at the sight of the horses with their heads right in the door. The horses bolted back
                    on to the lawn, tearing it up, and dunged on the sidewalk. We finally got the horses quiet, tied
                    them, went in and thoroughly enjoyed the evening. But the next day Mr. Downs sent word to us that we
                    should come down and help repair the damage to the lawn and clean off the walk.
            Mr. E. B. [Elmer Burritt] Bryan was the outstanding teacher of my undergraduate work in college.15 He was not a great man but he had the ability to get work out of his
                    students. He had a marvelous memory for names. He would meet a person once and thereafter call him
                    by name though years after the first meeting. I have heard him call the roll of a class of 100 and
                    then lay his roll aside and call the roll from memory. I had work under him in Psychology, ethics
                    and Logic. He enjoyed a joke on himself. At 
                        Franklin
                     we had a long lanky ministerial student named Ferris. One day Ferris came to Dr.
                    Bryan's Office to talk with the President. When he left Dr. Bryan urged him to come in
                    often as he liked to talk things over with the students. Ferris wiggled around a little and then in
                    all seriousness replied, "I would like to do so very much Dr. Bryan but I do not have much
                    time to waste."
            At another time Dr. Bryan had been invited to preach in a small church in central Indiana. He was
                    told they could not pay much but that he should have all the collection taken at that service.
                    Following the service the man approached Dr. Bryan and paid him two and one half dollars. Dr. Bryan
                    thanked him as tho he had received fifty dollars. The man held up his hand and said, "Mr.
                    Bryan you don't need to thank me the sermon was worth it."
            
               
                  15 Elmer Burritt Bryan taught at Indiana University from 1896 to 1905,
                        first as assistant professor of pedagogy, then as associate professor and professor of education
                        and social psychology. From 1901 until 1905 he served in the Philippine Islands as principal of
                        the Insular Normal School and as general superintendent of education. In 1905 Bryan became
                        president of 
                            Franklin
                         College, 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana. He served in this capacity until 1909, resigning in that year to become
                        president of Colgate University, 
                     Hamilton,
                                New York
                  . From 1921 until his death,
                        October 15, 1934, Bryan was president of Ohio University, 
                     Athens, Ohio
                  .
                        University Archives, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . For Bryan's career as president of 
                            Franklin
                         College see John F. Cady, Centennial History of 
                                Franklin
                             College (n.p., 1934), 159-62.
            
            
            The outstanding teacher of my graduate work was Dr. [William Heard] Kilpatrick of 
                        Columbia
                     University.16 He taught educational Philosophy. To him I owe what
                    little urge I have had to develop a pedagogy to meet the needs of the particular students I have had
                    under my charge rather than to fit the student to any special Course of Study.
            
                    THINGS IN GENERAL
                
            I finally graduated from High School at the age of twenty-one. That summer [1897] I secured a
                    teacher's license and was given a school. The Trustee sent me to the Glixner School
                    probably because I knew all the 
                        German
                     People. They liked me and I liked them. All my pupils were 
                        German
                     except the children of two families. I had fifty-four pupils, all eight grades and six
                    beginners who knew little English. For pay I received thirty dollars per month and five cents a day
                    additional for sweeping out the school house and building my own fires. Most of the time I walked
                    the three miles each way but rode a white pony part of the time that had cost me ten dollars.
            I got along well with the school. I visited in every home and was treated fine by all the parents.
                    One morning early in the term I went to school, built a fire, put some work on the board and rang
                    the school bell. Not a pupil appeared. I wondered what was the matter. What had I done that all the
                    pupils remained at home? Finally near noon I went over to Glixners' to find out the
                    trouble. Mr. & Mrs. Glixner laughed loud and long. They explained that the day was a
                    Catholic Holiday and all the pupils had gone to Church. They then gave me a list of the holidays and
                    told me on those days to bring a book and pass the time as best I could. I was greatly relieved. The
                    next day all the children were back in school.
            The visits to the various homes were interesting. I was always welcome and everybody did their best
                    for Herr Lehrer as they called me. Some of the homes were poor. I have 
                  
                     16 William Heard Kilpatrick was professor of philosophy of education
                            at 
                                Columbia
                             Teachers College, 
                                New York
                            . He led an intransigent group whose radicalism frightened many conservatives,
                            organized the John Dewey Society at the college "to bring the school and society
                            effectively together," and authored many books on education. Horace Coon, 
                        
                                    Columbia
                                : Colossus on the Hudson (
                                New York
                            , 1947), 222.
               
                     slept with one or more kids in the big feather bed. At other
                    places I had the best room to myself. Always I slept under as well as on a feather bed. It took me a
                    while to get used to the sea of feathers into which I would sink. Another feather bed composed the
                    cover. I was usually too hot with it and too cold without it. But in extreme cold weather it was a
                    fine way to sleep.
            After the wheat was sowed and the corn husked it was the custom for most of the families to gather at
                    one of the homes for supper and cards and dancing. They did this at regular intervals all winter.
                    The teacher was always invited and usually went. After a grand supper the old folks would talk or
                    play cards and the young people would dance. Always there was a pitcher of home brewed beer and a
                    jar of pretzels for later refreshment.
            That winter one of my patrons, Henry Nordloh, lay sick for two months with Inflammatory Rheumatism.
                    About once a week I would take a book from home and go home with Henry's children, and read
                    to him most of the night. Henry never forgot it. Later when he became Trustee of the Township, he
                    built the present High School Building at Hayden and always said I had given him a vision of its
                    needs and possibilities.
            William Bertrams' had several children. I frequently went home with them. Mrs. Bertram was a
                    big jolly Hausfrau and was a great story teller. She always called me son. Years later when I
                    returned to the community and met her at a church picnic she greeted me as though I had been one of
                    her own children.
            I saved enough that winter to go to Indiana University the twelve weeks of the spring term. I roomed
                    at the home of Mr. Faris Principal of the High School at Hayden, when I graduated.
            This term I taught at Glixners, I had roomed at home with H. L. [Henry Lester] Smith now Dean of
                    Education at Indiana University.17 He invited me to spend the first night I was
                    in 
                        Bloomington
                     at his home. I gladly accepted. After 
                  
                     17 Henry Lester Smith came to Indiana University as Director of School
                            Supervision and Administrative Practices in 1909. He was elected dean of the School of
                            Education in 1915 but did not serve in this capacity until the following year. Smith
                            continued as dean until his retirement in 1945. He died October 25, 1963. University
                            Archives, Indiana University.
               
                     supper we visited with the family until bed time. Then an old
                    bachelor uncle announced that it was time for family prayers. It was his custom to open the Bible
                    and read the first chapter that struck his eye. This night the book opened to the chapter which
                    reads, "And Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat etc." The
                    old man read several verses, then he silently ran his eyes down the page, then announced,
                    "I see that they kept on begatting to the end of the chapter. Let's
                    pray." It was too much for Smith and me and we disgraced ourselves in the old
                    man's esteem because we laughed aloud.
            My roommate that first term was Pink Amick from Scipio. He is now a teacher in the High School at
                    Anderson.
            It was the spring of 1898. We were at war with 
                        Spain
                    . Pink and I joined the militia company at the University. We fully expected to be
                    called into the service but the Government took the 
                        Bloomington City
                     Company rather than the company at the University. So Pink and I were denied the
                    privilege of saving the Country.
            I went home in June to help father on the farm. Then the winter of 1898 I taught the Wilkins School
                    so I could be near home. This school was a mile north of the farm. Again I had all eight grades but
                    the children were all protestant native Americans.
            This was the winter my father died. He heard that Mrs. Poling, a widow, needed wood. He took the team
                    and hauled her a load although the weather was cold and stormy. He became wet and chilled, took to
                    his bed and lived but a few days. He was buried on Christmas Day. His death left Mother, Maud, Harry
                    and myself. Maud had just completed High School and Harry was still in school. We had quite a number
                    of stock animals on hand, cattle, sheep and hogs. There was no one to do the work but Harry and I.
                    We would get up at five o'clock and do the feeding. Then we would each take a horse and
                    ride to school. Then we would hurry home after school and work as long as necessary to get the work
                    properly done. Saturday, rain or shine, we had to clean the stables and get up feed.
            That winter I had my first experience borrowing money. We had father's funeral expenses to
                    pay and we needed more feed to finish off the stock. I went to the bank at 
                        Vernon
                    . Sebe Trapp, the President of the bank asked how much I  needed. I told him our situation and that I could get along with
                    $300.00 for 90 days. He let me have the money on my own personal note. We fed out the
                    stock sold them and I paid the note before it was due. Seba wrote me a letter following the payment
                    of the note congratulating me upon making such prompt payment and inviting me if I needed money
                    again, to come to the 
                        Vernon
                     National bank.
            I saw no chance to attend College the spring of 1899. I had about decided to give up the idea of
                    getting a College education, and settle down to farming. Just before my school was out in March, Mr.
                    Wohrer, the Trustee sent for me. I went to his home to see what he wanted. He asked if I was
                    planning to go to school that spring. I told him that I had no money and that I had about given up
                    the idea of going. Then he talked to me at some length. He said that I should go on to school, that
                    very few young people of that community were inclined to go to College and that I had the desire,
                    therefore he would help me. This is what he did. He gave me ten blank checks signed with his name. I
                    said, "Mr. Wohrer don't do that don't you know I could break you
                    up?" He answered, "Yes, you could, but you won't." "You
                    go to school, then next winter I will give you a school at Hayden at $60.00 per month,
                    then you can repay me." He did more than that. He gave Maud a school also.
            That spring term of twelve weeks cost me exactly $100.00.
            That fall we had a sale, paid off the money owing on the farm, rented it and moved back to Hayden.
                    Maud taught at the Baker school down in the 
                        German
                     Settlement. Mother in the meantime had succeeded in getting her widow's
                        pension.18 That and the income from the farm would support her and Harry, so
                    I felt free to try and complete my college course.
            The summer of 1900 will stand out in my mind as long as I live. Everything appeared to be going so
                    well. Then the blow fell. H. L. Smith, Principal of the H. S. came back for a visit that summer. The
                    young people planned a picnic for him. We went on a hayride to 
                        Rockford
                     on White River near 
                        Seymour
                    . After dinner some of us went swimming, some boating. Harry, a fine young man was an
                    excellent swimmer. He observed a boat loaded with girls swept by the current 
                  
                     18 Mrs. Van Riper was the widow of a Civil War veteran and as such
                            received a pension from the federal government.
               
                     out into deep water. He swam out to warn them and to get them
                    back to shallow water. Suddenly he was seized with a heart attack and sank in thirty feet of water.
                    It is a wonder that several more were not drowned, because the boat was loaded and they were
                    hysterical with fright, but they all got to shore safely. I tried until I was worn out to dive and
                    rescue Harry, but no one can dive thirty feet. I swam around hoping he would come to the surface.
                    Finally exhausted, the others made me give up the attempts. We sent to 
                        Seymour
                     and got help and soon raised the body but could [not] restore life.
            Harry was the youngest. He was Mother's baby. The saddest duty I ever had to perform was to
                    take him home to mother.
            Mother was never the same again. She never recovered from the shock of Father's and
                    Harry's deaths. She lived many years after but she lost much of her courage and self
                    reliance and initiative.
            In the meantime I had bought the house built by Sam and May Dodd opposite the M. E. Church and we
                    sold the old home down town to a Doctor Davenport.
            The winter of 1900-01, I taught the 6, 7, and 8, grades in the Hayden School and attended Indiana
                    University [in] the spring and summer. I had planned to teach the same grades the following winter,
                    however the Trustee, Billy Whitcomb, asked me to go back to Indiana University for a year with the
                    promise of the principalship of Hayden High School the following winter. I told Mr. Whitcomb that I
                    did not have the money to go. He said that he would lend me the money from school funds. I went to
                    Indiana that year of 1901-2. The year's work cost me a little less than $300.00.
                    The following two years I was Principal of the Hayden High School. I had about thirty-five pupils,
                    and three grades the 9,10, and 11 years. I was the only teacher in the High School. The next year we
                    added the 12th. year. I was still the only teacher. Several who had been in High School with me came
                    back to take the 12th. year. I combined as many of the classes as I could but all winter taught
                    twelve recitations of 30 minutes each per day. I had license in all H. S. subjects. I taught
                    English, Latin, 
                        German
                    , history, mathematics, and physical geography. I never worked harder. I wonder what my
                    teachers would say to me now if I asked them to teach 12 classes daily.
            
            A number of interesting incidents happened those two years. There were three other teachers in the
                    building and I was supposed to give them a certain amount of supervision. One day I placed a senior
                    in charge of a freshman class and visited the upper grade teacher, Shepherd Whitcomb. Shepherd was
                    using his book in recitation and I saw that he had not made a very careful preparation of the
                    lesson. So later when we were alone together, I suggested that his preparation of the lesson could
                    be improved. Shepherd's answer was this. "Why prepare so carefully? It is a damn
                    poor teacher that can't skim down a page faster than his pupils."
            Shepherd had in his room a number of large overgrown boys. One day one of these boys, Lon 
                        Hamilton
                    , brought some mice, that he had caught in a trap, to school and when things got quiet,
                    turned them loose. Pandemonium reigned. The girls screamed. I ran across the hall and opened the
                    door. Girls were perched on desks, one was on top [of] the stove and all screaming at the top of
                    their voices. It was a mad house. We finally killed the mice and restored order. Shepherd was near
                    the maddest man I ever saw, and told Lon to come the next morning prepared to take a sound
                    threashing [sic]. The boys got together that day and decided that Lon was too big to be whipped and
                    that if he would resist they would all help him if Shepherd attempted the punishment. That night the
                    father of one of the boys came to my room and told me the situation. I thanked him and then went
                    over to tell Shepherd about it. We talked it over and decided that the punishment must be carried
                    out. So the next morning after opening exercises I went across the hall to Shepherd's room.
                    The atmosphere was tense. I stepped over to the front of the room near the stove. Shepherd got his
                    whip, a stout hickory limb, and asked Lon to come forward. Lon hesitated but came slowly. When the
                    first blow was struck several boys rose from their seats and started to the front of the room. I
                    grabbed the big iron poker and stepped between them and Lon. I did not say a word but just stood
                    there holding that big poker like a ball bat. The boys stopped, hesitated and then one by one turned
                    back to their seats. In the meantime Shepherd did a good job with the hickory switch. Things quieted
                    down but I have often wondered what would have happened if the boys had decided to come on.
            
            That year we had moved into the new school house but we had no flag or flagpole. I talked it over
                    with the Trustee. I told him I would raise money for the flag if he would put up a flagpole. The
                    Trustee agreed and did erect a fine iron pole that extended above the cupola of the building.
                    However we neither of us thought to insulate the pole with a ground wire. Two years later lightning
                    struck the pole and burned the building to the ground.
            One day Miss Susie Wohrer came running and asked me to come to her room quickly. I followed her and
                    found one of the younger boys stretched out on the floor and to all appearances dead. I stooped down
                    to listen to his heart and got a whiff of his breath. I knew then what was the matter. He had been
                    smoking. We revived him and sent him home with two of the larger boys.
            I went back to the University that spring term and then went to Butlerville as Principal of the High
                    School the fall of 1904. Sister Maud was also given the intermediate grade there, so we decided to
                    take mother with us. So I rented a house and we took a load of furniture with us. I received
                    $80.00 a month the first year and $90.00 the second year at Butlerville. That
                    was an excellent wage for the time.
            We had a fine time in Butlerville. There was a fine group of young people in town and a well
                    organized school. They had just completed a new school building. The old building just back of the
                    new one we used as a gymnasium. I introduced basketball and we played several games those two
                        years.19
            
            Mr. Murphy had a son Charley who did not want to attend High School. I got him interested through
                    basketball and baseball so that he remained in school and did good work. His father was so pleased
                    that he furnished me free of charge a team of ponies and a buggy any time I wanted them.
            Butlerville had a good town baseball team. I played first base for them. The summer and fall of 1905, 
                        Versailles
                     had a fine team and had not lost a game. We tried in vain to get a game with them, but
                    were told we were not in their class. 
                  
                     19 In describing athletics at the turn of the century, the biennial
                            report of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction stated, "Ten schools
                            support gymnasiums. Twenty-three have athletic associations." Indiana, Twentieth Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction
                                … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1901), 463.
               
                     However they finally agreed to play us and give us twenty-five
                    dollars if we won the game. If we lost we were to pay our own expenses. We accepted. We recruited
                    Howard and Clifford Daringer and Mike Simon from Hayden and Joe Verbarg and Curtis from 
                        North Vernon
                    . Four of us from Butlerville made up the team. 
                        Versailles
                     was out in their glory. A large crowd was gathered to kid us. But they did not kid
                    long. We won that game 18 to 2, and were they sore. They paid us but told us later that if they had
                    known we were going to collect a team from all points west of the B & 0 railroad they would
                    not have played us.
            Butlerville was a 
                        Quaker
                     community. Old Mr. Ware was a 
                        Quaker
                     and one of the finest gentlemen I have ever known. At one time the 
                        North Vernon
                     Newspaper was running a series of articles featuring the smaller towns around. I was
                    asked to write the article about Butlerville. I pictured Butlerville as a paradise on earth. I gave
                    full play to fancy and was not too accurate as to facts. Shortly after the article appeared in the
                    County Paper, I met old Mr. Ware on the street. He stopped me and with a twinkle in his eye said,
                    "Friend Paul, I did not realize until I read your article what a marvelous place
                    Butlerville really is, but don't thee think that thee laid it on just a little mite
                    thick?"
            On one occasion Mr. Ware had two very good looking nieces visiting him. They were very lively and
                    jolly and not nearly as demure as one would expect 
                        Quaker
                     maids to be. Ed Goforth and I called to see them one Friday night. We had a big time
                    and must have kept the old gentleman awake most of the night. A few days later I again met Mr. Ware
                    on the street. We talked awhile and as I was about to pass on he said, again with that fine twinkle
                    in his eye, "Friend Paul, the other night at my house, I remembered that thee was
                    young."
            The spring of 1906 I decided to change from Indiana University to 
                        Franklin
                     College. Dr. E. B. Bryan had left Indiana U. to become President of 
                        Franklin
                    . I had been taking work with him at Indiana and wanted to complete the course. In
                    addition Dr. Bryan told me that he would give me some teaching to do in the prep department that
                    would help pay my way. So I attended 
                        Franklin
                     that spring term and the following year, graduating with a Ph B. Degree with the class
                    of 1907. Ten years had passed by since I had graduated  from H.
                    S. During that ten years I had taught eight terms of school and had been able to attend College but
                    two full years. I could hardly make myself believe that I had at last succeeded in achieving my
                    ambition.
            The spring of 1906 I played first base on the college team and was elected captain of the 1907 team.
                    The fall of 1906 I played football. Fat Lydorf was captain but received an injury early in the
                    season that kept him off the team so I was acting captain the rest of the season. The baseball
                    season of 1907 was very successful and we lost but two games.
            That spring term I worked too hard. I carried twenty hours work, taught one class, captained the
                    baseball team and had a leading part in the class play.
            The Class I taught that spring in the Prep Deparment had two students. One was [Robert] Homer 
                        Kent
                     who later became acting President of the College;20 the other was
                    Verne (Dippy) Terrill who became a professional gambler. I have reminded Dr. Kent on various
                    occasions that I am very proud of the success those two students made in their chosen professions.
            It was during the baseball season of 1906 that I received the nick-name "Casey".
                    Frank Witt was manager of the team. We were to play Miami University at Miami.21
                    Frank told us that if we won the game he would take us all to the theatre as we came back through 
                        Indianapolis
                     that night. We won the game and Frank was as good as his word. He took us to the old
                    Variety Theatre that at best had an unsavory reputation. Two men came out on the stage dressed as
                    girls. The breast of one of them was all covered with hair. The other pretended girl walked up to
                    the one with the hair and said in a high falsetto voice, "I told you Casey that if you did
                    not quit eating those shredded wheat biscuits, they would break out on you." The next day
                    when we were dressing for baseball practice, Bernard Douglas saw me and called out, "Hello
                    Casey." The name stuck and I was known as Casey in 
                        Franklin
                     from then on.
            Our Senior Class Play was George Ade's, "County Chairman". I had the part
                    of Judge Rigby, the villain in the play. 
                  
                     20 Dean Robert Homer 
                                Kent
                             was acting president of 
                                Franklin
                             College, 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana, from 1931 until 1933. Fassett A. Cotton, Education in
                                Indiana, 1793 to 1934 (Bluffton, Indiana, 1934), 102.
                  
                     21 Since the trip Van Riper describes was apparently of one
                            day's duration, the author probably meant Miami University at
                                    
                        Oxford, Ohio
                     .
               
                     Mother came to see the play and attended the graduation
                    exercises. I asked her how she liked the play. She replied, "It was an awfully good play,
                    but I wish that you could have had some other part."
            While at Indiana University, I was not a Fraternity man. I could not afford it. However I had many
                    friends who were Fraternity men. The Phi Delts especially were fine to me. When I came to 
                        Franklin
                     I became a Phi. I claim to be the only man ever initiated into a fraternity while
                    unconscious of what was taking place. The afternoon preceeding the initiation we played a baseball
                    game. I got a hit and stole second. However the catcher's throw to second hit me on the
                    head and bounced on into center field. I got up, ran home, and then collapsed. They took me to the
                    Dr.'s office and then to my room. The boys came to my room to see if I was all right and
                    able to go through with the initiation. They told me later that I gave them the assurance that I was
                    O.K. So I was initiated that night. But the next morning I had only the haziest recollection of what
                    took place. The boys said they noticed nothing wrong other than I appeared very stoical about it
                    all. But actually I remembered very little of what took place.
            The summer of 1906, Bernard Douglas took some cattle to the Tennessee State Fair. He brought home
                    with him a gallon of white mule or mountain dew, and brought it to school with him that fall. Pat
                    Whitesides was coaching the team. I was rooming with Douglas. Pat found out Douglas had the liquor
                    and was a visitor at our room nearly every day as long as the stuff lasted.
            Earl Crecraft had never seen any white mule. He came down to our room one evening. Douglas brought
                    out a glass full for Earl but had filled our glasses full of water. Doug and I tossed off our
                    glasses of water. Earl not to be outdone drank most of his. About thirty minutes later Earl
                    announced that he was going to stay with us all night. We got him to bed but he kept us awake all
                    night singing and reciting some fool oration he had learned.
            There is another incident that took place the spring I graduated. Some of my friends in 
                        Jennings County
                     wrote me the County Superintendency was open and that they could secure the position
                    for me if I wanted it. I consulted Dr. Bryan and he advised me not to accept. But the job looked  pretty good to me, so disregarding Dr. Bryan's advice,
                    I wrote my friends that I would accept the position but that I would make no personal effort to get
                    it. They wrote back that it was all fixed and for me to come down the day of the election and
                    receive the plaudits of my firends. I went down to 
                        Vernon
                     the morning of the election. There were six Republican Trustees and five Democrats. The
                    Republicans had caucused and had agreed on me as their candidate. The Trustees took one ballot and
                    John Clerkin the Democratic Candidate received six votes and the election. One Republican Trustee
                    had voted with the Democrats. The Republicans made it so hot for that Trustee that he sold out and
                    moved to 
                        Texas
                    . I came back to 
                        Franklin
                     greatly chagrined but that defeat was the very best thing that could have happened to
                    me.
            Through the year I was in College in 
                        Franklin
                    , I taught some as supply teacher in 
                        Franklin
                     High School.22 Following my graduation H. B. Wilson, the
                    Superintendent, offered me a position as teacher of history in 
                        Franklin
                     High School at a salary of $80.00 per month. Since I had been getting
                    $90.00 at Butlerville, I refused the offer much to H. B.'s displeasure. In fact
                    he became quite sarcastic as to the value I placed upon my services.
            Soon after I accepted the Principalship of Fowler H. S. at a salary of $100.00 per month.
                    I ran a threashing machine that summer and went to Fowler to teach that fall. When I left home Maud
                    was very sick with inflammatory rheumatism. Mother and she were alone at Hayden. Maud remained so
                    sick that after teaching a week at Fowler I resigned and started home. I stopped off at 
                        Franklin
                     to get some things I had left there. Superintendent Wilson had been succeeded by A. O.
                    Neal. I met him at the chapter house. He told me that he had a vacancy and that if I found my sister
                    better that he would [hold] it until I could take it, and that he would give me $100.00
                    per month. I went on to Hayden. Maud got better and I returned to 
                        Franklin
                    . My duties I found were to teach five classes in history, one in Latin, to act as
                    assistant Principal and coach the foot-ball team.
            I roomed at the Phi Delt Chapter House from the time I began teaching in 
                        Franklin
                     the fall of 1907, until I was married in 1911. The boys at the house were always
                    playing 
                  
                     22 Van Riper may have served as a substitute teacher whenever illness
                            occurred among the regular faculty at 
                                Franklin
                             High School.
               
                     jokes on some one. I had been teaching but a few weeks when one
                    afternoon Mr. B. D. Remy, Principal of the High School came to my door and stated that I was wanted
                    on the telephone. The telephone was in Mr. Remy's Office and he sat near the phone when I
                    answered. The call was from the Western Union Telegraph. A woman's voice announced that
                    they had a telegram for me. I asked her to read it. She hesitated but when I insisted she read it to
                    me. Here is what she read, "Husband has discovered all. Is on your track. Fly at
                    once." and signed, Mrs————23 The telegram was from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . I knew at once that some of the boys had sent it and it gave me no concern. But Mr.
                    Remy had heard the words of the telegram. He said very sharply, "Van Riper, what is
                    this?" I replied, "Oh it is just some of those damn Phi Delts trying to play a
                    joke on me." Then I returned to my room. However Mr. Remy was not satisfied. He called
                    Superintendent Neal and had him come over. After school Mr. Remy had me come in the office and
                    repeat the telegram to Mr. Neal. Mr. Neal knew at once it was a joke and laughed until the tears
                    rolled down his cheeks. He was not at all concerned but I think that Mr. Remy viewed me with
                    suspicion for some time.
            Susie Wohrer came to 
                        Franklin
                     that same year as a teacher. She and I had been reared there at Hayden and never had
                    called each other by any other names than Paul and Susie. We agreed that we must be more formal now
                    and say Mr. Van Riper and Miss Wohrer. We got along pretty well until the first Institute. Susie was
                    conducting a class with the teachers as pupils. An argument arose over a point under discussion.
                    Susie had called upon two or three for an opinion and then she turned to me and said, "Paul
                    what do you think about it?" Then she made matters worse by blushing very violently. Some
                    of the teachers may have sensed a romance until we explained the situation.
            I had never had any art in school and knew nothing about it. They were teaching Art in 
                        Franklin
                     High School. A period in the morning was given over to this work in the assembly room
                    and all students at that time were studying design under the direction of Miss Fan McMurray the Art
                    Teacher. The teachers helped out with the work the best they could. I was very much interested and
                    Miss McMurray was 
                  
                     23 Dashes are Van Riper's.
               
                     very much pleased that I was and tried her best to explain to
                    me what she was trying to do. I looked wise and said nothing because what she said was mostly Greek
                    to me.
            Soon after that Miss McMurray was taken sick. Mr. Remy came to me and said that I was to go over to
                    the home of Miss McMurray and get her directions and continue the Art work until she was able to
                    return. With many misgivings I did as directed. So I was an Art Teacher for a short period. Perhaps
                    Miss McMurray's selection of her assistant was due to the fact that she was soon declared
                    insane and had to give up her work.
            The summer of 1908, Mother, Maud and I spent the summer in 
                        Kansas
                    , with brother Joe on his cattle ranch near Dodge City and with Sister Abbie on their
                    farm near Fall River. I spent the time riding a mowing machine cutting alfalfa, repairing fences,
                    hunting prairie chickens and jack rabbits and playing an occasional game of baseball. Joe had a
                    beautiful ranch. He owned about 2000 acres of land all of which would grow alfalfa. That summer he
                    had over 800 head of hereford cattle. He had built a beautiful home and it was a grand place to
                    stay.
            While at Joe's ranch a telegram came from 
                        Franklin
                     stating that Mr. Remy had resigned as Principal of 
                        Franklin
                     High School and offering me the position at a salary of $1200.00 for nine
                    months work. Did I accept!
            That Summer 
                        Franklin
                     had erected a new High School Building. It was my job my first year as principal to
                    move into the new building, reorganize the courses, and get things to running smoothly. It was a
                    busy year. Simon Roache was selected as assistant Principal and Coach but I also helped in both
                    baseball & football.
            The new building did not have a gymnasium so we fitted up the assembly room of the old H. S. Building
                    for a gymnasium and started Basketball as a High School sport. One of the first players on the
                    Basket ball team was Ernest (Griz.) Wagner who later attained fame as a basket ball coach.24
            
            
               
                  24 Ernest (Griz.) Wagner coached the 
                            Franklin
                         High School "Wonder Five." This basketball team won the Indiana
                        high school basketball championship in 1920, 1921, and 1922, the only team ever to win the title
                        for three consecutive years. Wagner later became head basketball coach at 
                            Franklin
                         College.
            
            
            The summer of 1909 I decided to go to 
                        Columbia
                     University and begin my graduate work. I found that I could get a Masters Degree in
                    four summers. I continued my course there and received two degrees the summer of 1912, a Master in
                    Arts from 
                        Columbia
                     University proper, and a Master in Education from Teachers' College.
            During my first year as Principal one event happened that caused me needless concern. I was invited
                    to and attended a Euchre Party at the home of Otho and Marcia Curtic. As luck would have it I won
                    first prize and the fact was recorded in the next day's issue of the 
                        Franklin
                     Star. In that day cards were taboo for teachers. I talked to Superintendent Neal and he
                    assured me that I had not entirely ruined my reputation.
            A group of men from the U. S. Department of Education visited 
                        Franklin
                     and the 
                        Johnson County
                     Schools. Supt. Neal invited the men to dinner and also invited me to be present. During
                    the dinner Mr. Neal defend the idea that if children hear good English at home they will invariably
                    use good English in their conversation. It was near the close of the dinner and William Neal the son
                    of the family came into the dining room. One of the men thinking that the children had probably had
                    to wait asked, "William are you getting hungry?" William replied, "No,
                    thank you I have done et." A general laugh went up at the expense of Mr. Neal but he
                    enjoyed the incident and frequently afterward told it.
            Near the close of my second year as Principal I was called, one afternoon, to the office of the
                    school board. I wondered why. When I arrived I was informed that Supt. Neal had resigned to become
                    Superintendent of the 
                        Kokomo
                     Schools and that I had been elected Superintendent of the 
                        Franklin
                     Schools on the recommendation of Mr. Neal and Supt. Calvin Kendall of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . I was then 34 years old and the youngest superintendent 
                        Franklin
                     had ever had. My salary the first year was to be $1500.00.
            Supt. Neal, as fine a friend as I have ever had, told me before the Board why I had been recommended
                    to become superintendent. His recommendation was because of the way I had organized the High School
                    and had handled boys including his son who was a terror. Supt. Kendall had recommended me following
                    a visit to F#2 H. S. He had come to 
                        Franklin
                     to observe the work of some of our teachers 
                    particularly the work of one Margaret Pritchard, teacher of Latin. Supt. Neal was away so I had to
                    do the honors. We were visiting Miss Pritchard's room when Mr. Kendall asked me if I taught
                    any classes. I told him that I did and that I had a class that hour. He said,
                    "Let's go see what that class is doing." We went to my room. I was
                    somewhat doubtful of what we would find. There, instead of having a rough house, sat Hugh Vandevier,
                    one of the class conducting a very interesting recitation. Kendall appeared much interested. He then
                    asked me if I taught any other classes. I told him that I had another history class the next hour.
                    After the next period had gotten under way he asked to see that class. I wondered if lightning ever
                    struck twice in the same place. I was wondering more than Supt. Kendall what that class would be
                    doing. But to my surprise and to the delight of Mr. Kendall, there sat Oake McClain conducting that
                    class just as Hugh had been conducting the preceeding one. Mr. Kendall was so pleased that those two
                    classes were orderly and were going ahead with the work during my absence, that he wrote Supt. Neal
                    complimenting me highly.
            Following the visit to the classes of Miss Pritchard, Mr. Kendall asked me about her work. I told him
                    that he could observe better than I that she was an excellent teacher. I also told him of the extra
                    work she was doing with girls in sewing classes and that she was doing it without extra pay. Then he
                    asked me if there were any entangling alliances that would prevent her teaching in 
                        Indianapolis
                     a number of years if he employed her. I truthfully told him that I knew of none. Miss
                    Pritchard taught in 
                        Indianapolis
                     just one year. She then resigned and gave as her reason that she was to marry me. Supt.
                    Kendall, the next time he saw me, accused me of suppressing the facts. Again I assured him that I
                    told him the truth. But I don't believe he ever fully believed me.
            I had barely taken up my duties as Superintendent at 
                        Franklin
                     when I received a call from one of the Board, Dr. Clarence Province, to come down to
                    his office immediately. He appeared much agitated so I hastened. I found that a yearly financial
                    report, made by Supt. Neal and sent in to the State Department of Education, had been returned to
                    Dr. Province as Treasurer of the Board, with a notation that if the report was correct that the
                    Treasurer was short $10000.00. I told the Doctor that I knew there was some mistake and
                        
                    
                  PAUL VAN RIPER (1897)
                  HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION PICTURE
                  
                  Courtesy Paul Pritchard Van Riper
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL VAN RIPER (C. 1910)
                  DURING CAREER AT FRANKLIN, INDIANA
                  
                  Courtesy Paul Pritchard Van Riper
               
                     that I would go over the books, find the error and correct the
                    report. After several hours' work I did find the error and reported to Dr. Province that
                    everything was O. K. and that he need not worry. That relieved him for the time but he shortly
                    resigned from the Board saying that a man could not afford the risk of being school treasurer of a
                    school Board for the salary he received, namely, twenty five dollars per year.
            After I came back from 
                        Columbia
                     the summer of 1910 following my election as Supt. I went to Hayden to visit Mother. She
                    had spread the news of my promotion. I learned that my old threashing outfit was at work down at old
                    Uncle Nick Megel's farm. So I drove down to where they were threashing. Uncle Nick asked me
                    to stay for dinner. While we were eating he looked up at me and said, "I hear you got a new
                    job." I told him that I did have and explained at some detail and with considerable pride.
                    Then he asked, "How much you get?" I told him fifteen hundred dollars a year. He
                    laid down his knife and fork and looked me all over. Then abruptly, "By Gott, you
                    ain't worth it." That expression from Uncle Nick took the wind out of my sails.
                    Any time since when I have had any idea of being unduly important, I have only to think of Uncle
                    Nick's comment and I am immediately reduced to normal size. But I later observed that when
                    Mr. Megel's grandson, Nick Megel the third, graduated from High School he was sent to 
                        Franklin
                     College to school.
            My great difficulty in adapting myself to the work of a school executive was that I did not know how
                    or perhaps was unwilling to delegate authority. I wanted to assume responsibility along the line. I
                    found that to be a physical impossibility and also the wrong thing to do, and I was soon forced to
                    the right attitude. Now I always have a clear understanding with any school employee from principal
                    to janitor, as to their duties. Then I expect them to do well what is expected of them. If they
                    don't do it then it is time following admonition, to get some one who will do their duty.
                    But it took me time to learn.
            Supt. Neal was a fine school man. When I began teaching for him he visited my room frequently. While
                    he appeared pleased he seldom said anything. One day I asked him if I was doing the work as he
                    wanted it done. I shall never forget his reply, "I much prefer that you do a good piece of
                    work  in your way than do a poor bit of work in mine."
                    That bit of philosophy has been of great use to me.
            During the six years I was superintendent of the 
                        Franklin
                     Schools, I taught a class at the college in teachers' training.
            Margaret and I were married August 22, 1911, following my first year as Superintendent. The next
                    summer she went with me to 
                        New York
                     and had a good time seeing the sights while I completed my work at 
                        Columbia
                     University.
            One day in the early spring of 1916, a man from 
                        Chicago
                     University came to visit the 
                        Franklin
                     Schools. He spent the day visiting schools, talking to teachers and citizens. He gave
                    me no reason for his visit. I found out later that he was out scouting for a Superintendent for the 
                        La Porte City
                     Schools.
            Shortly after this visit I received a letter from the School Board at 
                        La Porte
                     asking me if I would be interested in the superintendency there, also stating that
                    Supt. Deamer had resigned to accept a position as Supt. at Fargo, N. D. I replied that I knew
                    nothing about 
                        La Porte
                    , that I was well situated in 
                        Franklin
                    , and therefore was not particularly interested. A letter came back almost immediately
                    asking me to come to 
                        La Porte
                     for a personal interview. I went and and spent a very pleasant evening with the Board.
                    They offered me the position at a salary of $2400.00 per year. (My last year at 
                        Franklin
                     I was getting $1800.00) I came back to 
                        Franklin
                     and talked it over with Margaret. We decided to accept the 
                        La Porte
                     offer.
            We moved to 
                        La Porte
                     and I took up my work there July 1, 1916. We were just comfortably settled and I was
                    getting into the work, when Paul Jr. was born in the Catholic Hospital, July 29, 1916. I remember
                    that was the hottest day of the summer. The thermometer registered 104. I was hotter than that.
            The first weeks of Paul Jr.'s life was a nightmare. He developed a constriction of the
                    pyloric orifice. As a result his food could not leave the stomach and enter the small intestine. He
                    nearly died before we in our ignorance knew what was the matter. Margaret also became desperately
                    ill from poisoning due to the carelessness of the attending physician. Finally I called 
                        Norman
                     at 
                        Chicago
                     and he talked to Dr. Harry Mock. Dr. Mock advised getting Margaret and Paul Jr. to St.
                    Luke's Hospital at the earliest possible moment. I put them on the train and 
                        Norman
                     met them in 
                        Chicago
                    . Later that night  Dr. Mock telephoned me that both
                    Paul Jr. and Margaret were in a very critical condition. I remember walking the streets all that
                    night. Later Dr. Mock told me that a delay of 12 hours in sending them to the hospital would have
                    resulted in the death of both. Margaret rapidly recovered following an operation and Paul was put
                    under the care of Dr. Krost, who we verily believed saved his life.
            My work at LaPorte was a new experience. I had to deal with people of all nationalities. LaPorte was
                    an industrial city, and 
                        Franklin
                     was agricultural. It was also my first experience supervising a night school for
                        adults.25 That first year I spent in orienting myself and studying the
                    school situation. The high school was crowded and a new building was needed. The north part of the
                    city needed a new grade building. I gave as much time as I could from my other duties to planning
                    for those two new buildings.
            The year 1917 was eventful. The 
                        United States
                     entered the World War. Margaret's Brother 
                        Norman
                     entered the Officers' Training camp at 
                  Rockford, Illinois
               . Then
                    we were intensely grieved at the death of Margaret's sister Ruth. Ruth was a fine girl with
                    a brilliant mind and a wonderful personality. She had graduated from 
                        Franklin
                     College and was doing some teaching in the High School there at LaPorte.
            All plans for building were dropped after the war was declared. I spent almost as much time making
                    talks and helping sell Liberty Bonds as I did in school work.
            The winter of 1917-18 was unusually cold with much snow. I shoveled snow off the sidewalk in front of
                    our house and piled it so high I could not see the street. My mother spent that winter with us. The
                    day that big snow came I took an oil can and started to a store two blocks away to get some oil for
                    a little oil stove. I made it to the store but I was exhausted when I arrived.
            In the meantime 
                        Norman
                     had received his commission and was preparing to go overseas.
            
               
                  25 In 1891 the Indiana legislature provided that cities with a population
                        of 3,000 or more must establish night schools whenever twenty or more inhabitants petitioned the
                        school trustees to do so. Such schools developed rapidly during the half century, 1900-1950, and
                        their development in the high schools paralleled somewhat the growth of vocational education.
                        Cotton, Education in Indiana, 264-66; Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 521-22.
            
            
            During the summer of 1918 I felt the urge to get into some kind of war work. Margaret was fine about
                    it and said if I wanted to do so to go ahead.
            I wrote to the Adjutant General at 
                        Washington
                    , told him of my experience and training and asked if there was any place where my
                    services could be used. He wrote back that they were looking for men in the educational field to
                    help in the hospitals in the rehabilitation of wounded soldiers. Accompanying the letter was an
                    order to proceed to Fort Benjamin Harrison at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , [for] examination and consultation.
            In October I received a telegram stating that I had been appointed a Captain in the Sanitary Corps,
                    Surgeon General's Office, and ordering me to report to the Surgeon General in fifteen days
                    following the receipt of my commission.
            I immediately resigned as Superintendent at LaPorte, moved Margaret and Paul and the household goods
                    back to 
                        Franklin
                     and reported to 
                        Washington
                     as ordered.
            (See another chapter for war experience.)26
            
            In the spring of 1919, while I was stationed at Lakewood, N. J. the School Board at 
                        Lebanon
                     wrote me asking me if I would accept the position of Superintendent of Schools there. I
                    replied that at that time I was not free to do so.
            We returned to 
                        Franklin
                     following my discharge from the service, the late summer of 1919. I immediately took up
                    work at the First National Bank in charge of the Bond Department.
            I had come home sick. I was full of malaria and was not able to work much that fall. Margaret, Paul
                    and I went to the cottage on Blue River most of September and October. Then I recovered sufficiently
                    so that I could go back to the bank. However I did not feel well all winter.
            Again in May 1920 I was asked to accept the position as Superintendent at 
                        Lebanon
                    , and accepted. I took up the new 
                  
                     26 Van Riper served as captain in the Sanitary Corps during World War
                            I, first as an assistant at Walter Reed Hospital in 
                                Washington
                            , then as head of the educational department and chief morale officer at
                            Hospital No. 9, Lakewood, 
                                New Jersey
                            . Still later he was transferred to Hospital No. 43 at Hampton, 
                                Virginia
                            , as chief of the educational service and the section of physical instruction.
                            Due to an attack of malaria he was discharged July 28, 1919. Van Riper describes his war
                            experiences on pages 97-113 of the original manuscript. This section of the
                            "Reminiscences of a Hill-Billy" will not be published. Parentheses and
                            comment are Van Riper's.
               
                     work July 1, 1920. That summer and fall was especially
                    difficult. I was not very well and was considerably underweight. Margaret developed an infection of
                    the spine and had to enter the hospital at 
                        Chicago
                     and was confined to the home in 
                        Franklin
                     for weeks after she left the hospital. Paul Jr. only four years old was left at 
                        Franklin
                    , while his mother was in the hospital, with Mrs. David Poe. I would work all week in 
                        Lebanon
                     and return to 
                        Franklin
                     for the week end until Margaret was finally able to come to 
                        Lebanon
                    .
            Almost immediately after coming to 
                        Lebanon
                     I had to begin a building program. The first building was a temporary gymnasium, built
                    in the fall of 1920. We built one unit of the new High School Building in 1923, and completed that
                    unit and the Gymnasium in 1931.
            The course of study was completely rewritten and the entire school reorganized on the six-six
                        plan.27 Supervised study was also introduced.
            At this date, 1939, we have a good organization, fair equipment and adequate buildings.
            
               
                  27 In the "six-six" plan of school organization grades
                        one through six constitute the elementary school and grades seven through twelve the
                        junior-senior high school.
            
         
         
         
            Tribute to John D. Barnhart⋆
            
            John D. Barnhart, a native of 
                  Decatur, Illinois
               , received the Bachelor of Arts degree from Illinois
                    Wesleyan University in 1916. He received the Master's in history from Northwestern
                    University and in 1930 the Ph.D. in history from 
                        Harvard
                     University. For nearly a half-century Professor Barnhart has been teaching history,
                    chiefly but not exclusively in the Middle West. He first taught at Indiana University in 1925. For
                    the last twenty-four years he has been a permanent member of the history faculty at Indiana
                    University, serving as Chairman of the Department from 1947 to 1953.
            The Middle West has been Professor Barnhart's principal field of interest for both his
                    teaching and research. A student and disciple of Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner, also of the Middle West, Professor Barnhart has written dozens of articles and
                    book reviews in historical quarterlies throughout the country. Many of his articles give particular
                    emphasis to the movement of population from the Upper South into the Middle West during the late
                    eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. They also note the impact of this southern population on
                    the economic, political, constitutional, and cultural life of the Middle West. Much of Professor
                    Barn-hart's research and many of his findings are crystallized and summarized, as well as
                    amplified, in three publications which appeared in the early 1950's: Henry 
                            Hamilton
                         and George Rogers Clark in the American Revolution (1951); Valley
                        of Democracy: The Frontier Versus the Plantation in the Ohio Valley, 1775-1818 (1953); and,
                    with Donald F. Carmony as co-author, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                    Commonwealth (2 vols., 1954). Professor Barnhart's contributions as a scholar have
                    been widely and favorably recognized.
            A realization of the many facets of his career as an historian is essential to a full appreciation of
                    his varied and important achievements. One should particularly note that 
                  
                     ⋆ This tribute to Professor Barnhart was printed in the
                            program for a dinner on May 4, 1965, at which members of the administration and faculty of
                            Indiana University gave special recognition to thirteen retiring members of the faculty. The
                            citation, which was written by the editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, is reprinted here with minor changes.
               
                     from 1941 until 1954 he edited the Indiana
                        Magazine of History; since 1948 he has been a member of the Executive Committee of the
                    Indiana Historical Society, serving as its president from 1957 to 1959; from 1955 until 1964 he was
                    a member of the Advisory Committee on History for the Secretary of the Navy; in 1946-1947 he was
                    president of the History Teachers Association of Indiana; and in 1950 he served as chairman of the
                    Indiana Territory Sesquicentennial Commission. Still other examples could be cited of the quantity
                    and quality of his contributions.
            Professor Barnhart's personal qualities have endeared him to his numerous colleagues and
                    students, graduates and undergraduates alike. Through the years his concern and affection for his
                    students have been among his most conspicuous characteristics. Colleagues quickly were aware of the
                    satisfaction and pleasure he felt upon learning of their achievements and those of his former
                    students. Faithful as he has ever been to his own high principles, Professor Barn-hart is
                    nevertheless distinguished for his sympathy and tenderness toward the frailties of others. Known for
                    his gentle and kind disposition, he has always exercised patience and restraint in his evaluation of
                    others. Professor Barn-hart has well earned all the joys of retirement due a kindly gentleman and
                    colleague and faithful devotee of Clio.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Salvation and the Savage: An Analysis of Protestant Missions and American Indian
                        Response, 1787-1862. By Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of Kentucky Press, 1965. Pp. xiv, 186. Notes, bibliographical essay,
                    index. $6.00.)
            Late in the eighteenth century, under the inspiration of the humanitarian movement and the religious
                    revivalism that were sweeping the country, Americans witnessed the formation of many Protestant
                    missionary societies dedicated to bringing the heathens of the world to the benefits of civilization
                    and Christianity. Salvation and the Savage, the corecipient of the McKnight
                    Humanities Prize for American History in 1963, discusses those missionaries who chose the thankless
                    but challenging task of Christianizing America's Indians. This brief monograph is a
                    logically written, well-documented, and stimulating analysis of a neglected aspect of Indian-white
                    relations.
            Seeking to avoid the moral judgments usually found in books on Indian history, Robert F. Berkhofer,
                    Jr., combines the methodology of the historian with the comparative cultural approach of the
                    anthropologist. He has examined the books, letters, pamphlets, and reports of the various Protestant
                    denominations which operated in the American missionary field between 1787 and 1862 with regard to
                    their aims, organization, and activities. Berkhofer has also investigated the response those
                    activities enjoyed among sixteen tribes, ranging from the Senecas of 
                        New York
                     to the Nez Perce of 
                        Idaho
                    .
            The author points out that successful results for the missionaries required a double transformation
                    for the Indians, since Christianizing and civilizing were inextricably interwoven concepts. Not only
                    were the natives to become Christians, but they also had to become carbon copies of the white man,
                    thus making them lose their cultural identity. Besides the church, the general missionary
                    establishment came to include a school and a farm. Indian children, however, found it difficult to
                    be confined in stuffy classrooms, to toil on farms from dawn to dusk, or to be interested in, much
                    less understand, sermons on the depravity of man.
            The quick, easy conversions the missionaries had so naively expected never materialized. After years
                    of labor most mission establishments could show only a handful of genuine converts, and most of
                    those were half-breeds. Aside from the natural tendency of the Indians to resist change, the
                    examples of other whites often added to the difficulties of the missionaries. Traders, trappers, and
                    whiskey peddlers had a more tangible control over the Indian minds than did the men of God; and
                    these individuals were seldom as principled or as "civilized" as the missionaries. Most frustrating,
                    however, was the problem of what to do with the few Indians who did successfully make the change.
                    Those unfortunate red men not only found themselves scorned by their brethren, but also rejected by
                    the whites. Americans of the time were  not yet ready to accept
                    the idea of a civilized Indian. As the author concludes, "the laborers in the
                    Lord's vineyard were doomed not to reap the harvest they hoped because of their own
                    cultural assumptions, the racial attitudes of their compatriots, and the persistence of aboriginal
                    culture" (pp. 159-60).
            The documentation and extensive bibliographical essay indicate that the author is familiar with the
                    source material related to his subject. It is unfortunate, however, that despite the value of his
                    topic and the almost unexplored mass of material at his disposal, he limited his text to only 160
                    pages. The narrative is generally well-balanced; but this reader wonders why the most important
                    development in Indian-white relations of the pre-Civil War period, the Indian removal program,
                    should have received such little attention. The program vitally concerned and affected many of the
                    missionary societies. Moreover, the reader is left with the erroneous impression that Isaac McCoy
                    fathered, as well as favored, the idea of removal (p. 101).
            Aside from these general criticisms, Salvation and the Savage should prove
                    interesting to the layman and worthwhile to the specialist.
            Herman J. Viola, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Fist in the Wilderness. By David Lavender. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday and Company, 1964. Pp. xiv, 490. Maps, note on bibliography,
                    bibliography and notes, index. $5.95.)
            The fur trade with the North American Indians had developed a definite pattern long before young
                    Ramsey Crooks entered the trade in 1806. He served his apprenticeship at 
                        Montreal
                    , at Mackinac Island, on the Missouri River, and at Astoria until 1816, when John Jacob
                    Astor placed him in charge of the Great Lakes operation of the American Fur Company. In 1827 this
                    company combined with Pierre Chouteau, Jr., and Bernard Pratte and Company, of Saint Louis, in an
                    attempt to control the fur trade from the Great Lakes to the Rocky Mountains. Crooks almost
                    succeeded in establishing a monopoly from that date to 1832. His greatest obstacles were the Federal
                    Intercourse Acts, the Federal Government Trade House System, Indian agents, rival traders, and his
                    own unpredictable employees. The forces against him were too potent for even his frenetic zeal; and
                    when he bought Astor's American Fur Company in 1834, he secured the pinacle of his ambition
                    but a business which went bankrupt in 1842.
            Ramsey Crooks was an able trader of wide vision, insatiable ambition, and boundless confidence in
                    himself. He knew the meaning and the methods of pressure on an adversary, and those who opposed his
                    plans were sure to be attacked by any means at his command. Crooks failed to understand that his
                    successes against other traders ultimately depended upon the name and financial resources of Astor;
                    that his own energy and abilities were not enough to prevent occasional failures in his grandiose
                    and monopolistic schemes. When Astor retired, Crooks inevitably destroyed the American Fur Company.
            
            Lavender has used the biography of Crooks as the cohesive, personalized theme in an historical
                    account of the American fur trade. The device has merit, but he has been most successful in his
                    history. Careful attention has been given to historical resources on the aspects of the trade from
                    about 1800 to 1834; and political sovereignty, Indian affairs, and economic and business history
                    have all been consulted. The minutia of the activities and personal lives of hundreds of traders,
                    army officers, Indian agents, and Congressmen has been employed. However, Lavender's method
                    requires a disconcerting number of presumptions in order to involve Crooks, and the latter emerges
                    less clearly than many of the minor figures of the drama.
            The author thoroughly enjoys the chaos of the fur trade in this period; and his failures to achieve
                    clarity occur when he resorts to too much, rather than to too little, evidence of Crook's
                    personal life or business ethics. It was a period of pious protestations and pragmatic performances,
                    and digressions increase the readers' enjoyment but not his understanding. There are few
                    errors in fact, although William Wells was a Miami, not a Potawatomi, captive (p. 73). One would be
                    loath, however, to characterize such men as William Clark or Lewis Cass after reading
                    Lavender's account, which emphasizes the inconsistencies inherent in the enforcement of
                    federal Indian policies.
            It also is somewhat disconcerting to follow the details of Crook's career to his greatest
                    opportunity as the undisputed head of the American Fur Company and then find only a part of one
                    chapter devoted to its collapse after 1834, while fourteen chapters were needed to bring him into
                    the Astor partnership. At least one more book would be needed to develop the decline of his company,
                    and Lavender may be justified in his use of an abrupt termination to his story. He also may have
                    found that the collapse of the American Fur Company cannot be described without more complete
                    research in the papers of the Ewing brothers of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana.
            The author makes refreshing, well-substantiated, critical judgments in his bibliographical notes,
                    which, however, are placed at the end of the text. Any student entering this field of study can
                    profit from reading Lavender's book as a preliminary to serious scholarship.
            Bert Anson, Ball State University
            
         
         
            
               Castlereagh and Adams: 
                            England
                         and the 
                            United States
                        , 1812-1823. By Bradford Perkins. (
                        Berkeley
                    : University of California Press, 1964. Pp. viii, 364. Notes, illustrations, note on
                    sources, index. $7.95.)
            An indispensable part of contemporary American foreign policy has been a friendly and productive
                    collaboration with Britain. Alliances during war, cold war, and uneasy peace have served the
                    interests of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        England
                     very well indeed-alliances made possible by ever closer economic and cultural
                    relations. Every history student knows that this happy condition has not always existed and that it
                    is the consequence of a gradual process of rapprochement, evolving since the Revolution but often
                    marred by discord and conflict.
            
            Such is the theme of Perkins' latest volume in his trilogy on Anglo-American relations from
                    1795 to 1823, from the Jay Treaty to the Monroe Doctrine. Like the first two of the set, the third
                    volume reveals a bias for conciliation, compromise, and concession, while it decidedly disapproves
                    angry controversy and war. Some readers may feel that the author is too much of an Anglophile as he
                    de-emphasizes the arrogance and contempt so often displayed by the British toward their former
                    colonies (still called "the colonies" in some quarters as late as 1815). Yet
                    Perkins' thesis has great strength, for it rests upon prodigious, skillful research into
                    all known new materials as well as old ones, with a special effort to canvass the British sources.
                    With royal permission he has consulted the archives at 
                        Windsor
                     and has pioneered in the manuscript correspondence of principal English figures.
                    Besides, the author writes with such clarity and grace that one trustingly follows the easy path he
                    has cut through the thickets of nineteenth century diplomacy.
            Nearly half the book concerns the War of 1812. Both nations were interested in negotiating a peace as
                    soon as the war began, and the issues separating them were narrow enough to justify optimism.
                    Britain repealed orders in council; the 
                        United States
                     soon lost much of her initial appetite for territorial expansion; and the remaining
                    question of importance was the British practice of impressing American sailors. Still, two years
                    passed before the commissions gathered at Ghent, and it was several months more before they agreed
                    to a treaty that ignored all the old problems by going back to status quo ante
                    beUum. The English abandoned their project of an Indian barrier state in the West, or at least
                    the retention of enclaves on the American side of the Lakes, when the news of their setback at
                    Plattsburg convinced the realistic Duke of Wellington that "drubbing Jonathan"
                    would be too expensive. The Americans abandoned their demands for neutral rights before talks at
                    Ghent began. Nevertheless, Perkins sees some positive results of the war, chiefly a psychological
                    dividend to the 
                        United States
                     in the knowledge that she had stood up against a first-ranking power (with brilliant
                    success at 
                        New Orleans
                    ). Britain seemed to recognize this by treating her former foe with greater respect.
            The new attitude toward America found expression in the policies of Castlereagh, the English foreign
                    secretary throughout the period until his suicide in 1822. He is the hero of the story. During
                    postwar years this gifted statesman sought amicable understandings on a number of questions, such as
                    American fishing rights in Canadian waters and disputed boundaries all the way from Maine to 
                        Oregon
                    . The questions were resolved quite satisfactorily in the Convention of 1818, a topic
                    which occupies the author's attention in the latter part of the volume. Perhaps the most
                    interesting and valuable chapters here are those treating the intellectual and economic bases of
                    British-American relations. Despite a "warfare of the mind" between the two
                    countries, the Liverpool-Castlereagh ministry was usually considerate of American feelings; and the
                    reason probably lay in the highly important commercial relationship that had developed.
                    "Cotton and tobacco, calicoes and cutlery" were powerful persuaders for political
                    adjustments.
            
            The final chapter re-examines the Monroe Doctrine with some fresh insights. Though John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, the American secretary of state, naturally receives a good deal of praise for
                    constructing the doctrine, Monroe emerges as less the shallow figurehead than he has often seemed.
                    Indeed, throughout the work Perkins has some critical things to say about Adams' propensity
                    to quarrel in the face of British overtures. In the end, it was Castlereagh's Polignac
                    Memorandum, warning off European intervention in Latin America, that counted for more than 
                        Monroe
                    's pronouncements.
            The author has given us a first-rate history of the Anglo-American connection in these formative
                    years. Sound, well-written, and original, the book is an attractive example of what could be done on
                    other periods and countries.
            Maurice G. Baxter, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Republic in Peril: 1812. By Roger H. Brown. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1964. Pp. viii, 238. Manuscript sources, notes, index.
                    $7.50.)
            The intermittent debate as to the principal explanation of the coming of the War of 1812 has resulted
                    in several schools of thought. Frequently a fresh look at the problem seems to buttress a previously
                    proclaimed interpretation with additional corroborative evidence. Historians agree that the various
                    views are all a part of the total picture; the differences of opinion come from the emphasis and
                    importance accorded the explanations. These generalizations apply to Roger 
                        Brown
                    's study despite his Preface contention that "this book shows for the
                    first time" the primary motivation leading to the declaration of war in 1812. Leonard
                    White, Herbert Heaton, and more recently 
                        Norman
                     Risjord, would not regard 
                        Brown
                     as a stranger in their midst.
            
               
                        Brown
                     does go further than any of his predecessors, however, and spells out more precisely
                    the fear felt by the chief executive and the national legislators that the future of the republican
                    government of the 
                        United States
                     was at stake. The experiment in republicanism for which the Constitution provided was
                    in peril, and it must be upheld even at the cost of a war with Great Britain.
            Jefferson and 
                        Madison
                     Republicans were sure that commercial restrictions would bring cessation of the French
                    and British maritime practices which were violating American neutral rights and hurting American
                    commerce. If one belligerent repealed its edicts the other would follow suit rather than suffer the
                    consequences of its rival becoming the sole beneficiary of American commerce and friendship.
            When the Cadore letter convinced the administration that 
                        France
                     was willing to make concessions, and when the British made it clear they were unwilling
                    to repeal the Orders, 
                        Madison
                     and his supporters were induced to believe that the Orders were aimed at
                    Britain's principal maritime and commercial rival, the 
                        United States
                    . If Englishmen could not have access to the trade of the Continent, they would not
                    permit American merchants to have the advantages of it either. Britain, in effect, was waging war on
                    American commerce.
            
            Embargo legislation failing, force seemed the only alternative to economic, moral, and political
                    surrender-too high a price to pay for avoiding war, which was regarded as a lesser evil than
                    submission. Surrendering to British demands would be a blow to the prestige of republicanism,
                    demonstrating its lack of energy and staying power, its inability to organize and to use the will
                    and the strength of the nation. Submission might even be fatal to republicanism. "Proven
                    inability to ensure such vital concerns as the economic interests of citizens, national sovereignty,
                    and national honor might destroy the faith of all America in the republican form of
                    government" (p. 78).
            Some feared a resurgence of Federalists-men who championed aristocracy and monarchy. Many of the
                    Federalists themselves predicted eventual political disaster for their opponents as the principal
                    benefit of a war. They believed the temporary disadvantages and losses from war well worth the price
                    for the collapse of their political enemies.
            The year 1812, according to 
                        Brown
                    , takes on "an heretofore un-perceived meaning" (p. 189).
                    Republicanism's waning prestige in 1787 made urgent the movement which resulted in the
                    Constitution, "a new blueprint" for republican government. Now, republicanism was
                    again in jeopardy. To their credit the Jeffersonians recognized it as a parallel situation with as
                    momentous consequences at stake, even though responsible Federalists believed that the Jeffersonians
                    were ready to plunge the country into a major war for partisan and personal benefit.
            
               
                        Brown
                     dismisses the label of "war hawks" as a Federalist-coined term based
                    on false appearances and unfortunately perpetuated by historians. There is no "firm
                    evidence" of the existence of a faction which displayed "reckless
                    bellicosity," motivated by a hypersensitive feeling of national honor, expansionist plans,
                    and economic grievances. He also argues that the sectional interpretations which have
                    "dominated" a half century of writings on the War of 1812 are without basis of
                    fact.
            While not convincingly demonstrating that republicanism's peril was the primary motivation
                    for entry into war in 1812, 
                        Brown
                    's study serves the very useful purpose of putting more deserved emphasis on it
                    than heretofore. Even in the pursuit of this phase of the war's advent, imbalance might be
                    corrected and a better perspective attained if the Federalist position and record were examined in
                    more detail. Finally, the transition from doctoral dissertation to the printed page is hazardous.
                    Although it has been accomplished quite well in this instance, considerable improvement could be
                    achieved with tightening of the text. Increased effectiveness would result.
            Dwight L. Smith, Miami University
            
         
         
            
               Winthrop's 
                            Boston
                        : Portrait of a 
                            Puritan
                         Town, 1630-1649. By Darrett B. Rutman. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1965. Pp. x, 324. Frontispiece, notes, maps, charts, appendixes, note on sources
                    and methods, index. $7.50.)
            With fervor like unto that of Puritans struggling to know good and evil, historians have sought to
                    comprehend Puritanism. And both, it  would seem, to equal avail.
                    First with patriotic ardor, then with cynical repulsion, finally with exactitude and meticulous
                    care, scholars have delved into the 
                        Puritan
                     ancestry of New 
                        England
                     as if the results were designed to fulfill some peculiar national or sectional need. In
                    the end students were confronted with a theology the complexity and abstruseness of which rivalled
                    that of Aquinas and told that this was "the 
                        Puritan
                     Mind." Of late, however, colonial historians have begun to soften the rigidity
                    of previous interpretations. Such modifications can be found in the recent work of Edmund Morgan and
                    Katherine 
                        Brown
                    , for example. Darrett B. Rutman's study of 
                        Boston
                     during the primacy, if not reign, of John Winthrop is an even more intensive effort to
                    alter the bleakly intellectual 
                        Puritan
                     image.
            Rutman is concerned with the development of 
                        Boston
                     from its origins in 1630 until Winthrop's death in 1649, a period which
                    represents first the expression, then the failure, of what might be termed the 
                        Puritan
                     idea. 
                        Boston
                     was unique, yet at the same time typical. While only one among the many settlements in
                    New 
                        England
                     composed of men called Puritans, 
                        Boston
                     alone brandished the fine, distinctive leadership of John Winthrop. Rutman rightfully
                    warns that Winthrop's mind does not necessarily reflect the entire movement, nor do events
                    in 
                        Boston
                     encompass all 
                        Puritan
                     settlements. But there is much in the figure of Winthrop, and much in the settlement of 
                        Boston
                    , to reproduce the totality of 
                        Puritan
                     strength and weakness.
            The beginning of Rutman's sometimes awkward chronological-topical organization is the
                    oft-cited sermon, "A Model of Christian Charity," which Winthrop delivered on
                    board the Arbella, somewhere in mid-Atlantic. It was during this sermon that the 
                        Puritan
                     leader intoned, "Wee shall be as a Citty upon a Hill," theoretically
                    implying an harmonious relationship between the secular and spiritual realms. This was the dream.
                    The reality was to be otherwise. Given the impact of trade and commerce, Winthrop's Utopian
                    ideal became submerged in "acquisitive instincts" fed by New World prosperity.
                    Rutman's thesis that "the pressure of both numbers and complexity broke the unity
                    of congregation and town" (p. 141) is an already accepted but heretofore unproven
                    statement.
            In his attempt to establish Puritanism as a constantly evolving system of thought and government,
                    Rutman has declared that such concepts as a "Biblical Commonwealth" or a "
                        Puritan
                     oligarchy" are "meaningless." Unfortunately, substantiating
                    evidence for such assertions are difficult to discover. In order to prove the nonexistence of a "
                        Puritan
                     mind," Rutman almost suggests the nonexistence of Puritans. For example, he
                    writes that Winthrop was not a "theological 
                        Puritan
                    " (p. 20) but a man whose concepts of the church and covenant merely
                    represented the "aura of his times." Lest one should be moved to cite the frequent
                    theological implications in the writings of this untheological 
                        Puritan
                    , the author asserts, "Winthrop expressed social ideas in theological terms
                    only because there were no other terms available to him, not because they formed the basis of his
                    thought" (p. 13). Rutman may be right, but he provides little evidence for so sweeping an
                    assertion. Given his frequent attacks upon Perry Miller for like  errors, the author might perhaps show greater care in his own conclusions.
            For historians Rutman's "grass roots" approach in the Namier tradition is
                    of great value. The research has obviously been thorough, and the author is well equipped to guide
                    others through the labyrinth of colonial records. But more evidence is needed to prove that the
                    towering edifice of church and state was never more than a small heap of sticks and stones.
            Beverly Zweiben University of 
                            North Dakota
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Guardians of Tradition: American Schoolbooks of the Nineteenth Century. By Ruth
                    Miller Elson. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 1964. Pp. xiii, 424. Notes, illustrations, bibliography,
                    bibliography of textbooks used, index. $7.00.)
            Those of us who have been "indoctrinated" in the mainstream of American
                    intellectual and social history by such men as Parrington, Gabriel, and Curti probably deserve to be
                    called the dilettantes of the historical profession. We deal with grand themes, large ideas, and
                    magnificent generalizations. Our work displays the sophisticated erudition of a modern Renaissance
                    Man. Henry Adams, Thorstein Veblen, or even William Graham Sumner should be our ideal. In any case,
                    we trust our colleagues will marvel at the ease with which we thread our way through the varied
                    disciplines of philosophy, literature, and the natural and social sciences. It may quite truthfully
                    be said that we are philosophers of history, but not historians!
            Yet, if the scope of reconstruction and analysis of the past is as cosmopolitan as some have
                    maintained, then the philosopher of history probably has a place in the profession. But the real
                    dimensions he can add to history as a discipline must go deeper than the rather obvious historical
                    material he has dealt with heretofore or than the methodology and postulates of the groping
                    behavioral sciences from which he may have borrowed too indiscriminately. In Guardians
                        of Tradition Professor Elson has attempted to provide these added dimensions by presenting
                    the results of her twenty-five years' study of some one thousand textbooks used in American
                    schools during the nineteenth century. In the main this is an ideological treatment of the content
                    of these books. Elson concentrates particularly on the common type of school reader, such as the
                    various editions of McGuffey, as well as an history and geography books and, to a lesser extent, on
                    spellers and arithmetics. As the author defines her efforts in the Preface, this systematic review
                    of the dominant themes and ideas contained in these books serves to define the "attitudes
                    which make up the lowest common denominator of American intellectual history." Here the
                    underlying values and ideals of the entire society should be found, unless perchance the textbook
                    writers are totally out of step with their times, an unlikely occurrence in the case of books which
                    continue to be used and published. And certainly from what is known of the politics and journalism
                    of various periods during the nineteenth century, this reader 
                    can concur with the author's conclusion that her study tends to show-how
                    "Americanism" was being popularly defined or idealized. Naturally, as Elson
                    repeatedly points out, the picture is not always clear or consistent at any given period. The author
                    also tries to show the changes in views and emphases from one period to another, particularly the
                    differences in the treatment of subjects before and after the Civil War.
            Although Professor Elson has done a prodigious job in distilling and synthesizing what she has found
                    in such a vast array of school-books, it is doubtful that she has extended our knowledge of what
                    "the American Mind" was all about during the last century. Nor can the reader
                    automatically assume, as the author seems to, that the textbooks were a cause rather than an effect
                    of certain patterns of thought, which in turn had arisen from the most diverse historical roots.
                    Because the categories of her ideological analysis are themselves quite traditional in the field of
                    intellectual history, her work still retains the one-dimensional perspective which has characterized
                    so much of the writing in this field. There has simply been too great a tendency to ignore the facts
                    of history as the social-intellectual historian attempts to display his findings. As a result these
                    findings are reported in too much of a vacuum and are often distorted by the writer's
                    prejudices. In Professor Elson's case, there is a distinct superiority complex in her
                    presentation, which in itself is barely matched by the notions of racial and national superiority
                    she finds in the schoolbooks themselves! Her own implied and expressed value judgments suffer both
                    from the largely ahistorical framework in which she writes and from her lofty position of
                    scholarship, which seems to make her forget that these books were intended for young children, not
                    for high school or college students. If Elson really feels, as she says, that some of the literary
                    fare in the books used during the early nineteenth century was too rich for the
                    "common" schoolboy, perhaps she should reconsider her own notion that the young
                    student can be taught critical thinking rather than the simple facts and values presented in the
                    majority of these books.
            Kenneth S. Templeton, Jr., Lilly Endowment, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Religious Strife on the Southern Frontier. By Walter Brownlow Posey. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1965. Pp. xviii, 112. $4.00.)
            The immediate post-Revolutionary War years precipitated increased migrations into the American West.
                    Filled with settlers seeking fertile lands, the West soon realized unprecedented growth and appeared
                    destined to upset the political and economic power of the East. Moreover, the conditions peculiar to
                    frontier existence threatened to destroy existing social customs and religious creeds. Fear by
                    eastern theologians that the expanding democratic regions west of the mountains would succumb to
                    "Godlessness" prompted the birth of cooperative religious ventures to avert such
                    calamity. The American Bible Society, the American Sunday School Union, and the American Home
                    Mission Society  plunged into the wilderness distributing Bibles
                    along with religious education and conversion. But denominational cooperation evaporated quickly.
                    Frontier Methodist and Baptist preachers resented encroachment upon their "sphere of
                    influence" by eastern Congregationalists and Presbyterians; and soon all Protestant
                    denominations engaged in lively, at times vitriolic, debate in vying for membership. When the
                    Disciples of Christ threatened to destroy the religious monopoly after 1830, the established sects
                    conveniently ignored their differences and joined again in concerted action to thwart the
                    "menace." And as Catholicism spread westward following the European influx of
                    Irish and 
                        German
                     settlers during the 1830's, the Protestant denominations (including the
                    Disciples of Christ) once more closed ranks and, united in fear and ignorance, faced this latest
                    challenge to their geographical supremacy.
            Walter Brownlow Posey cleverly examines these denominational fluctuations in Religious
                        Strife on the Southern Frontier. Tracing early movements of people into Kentucky and 
                        Tennessee
                    , and later the population shifts into the lower Mississippi Valley, Posey depicts the
                    dilemma faced by organized religion in converting the frontiersman. Ministers found individuals more
                    concerned with land speculators than God's messengers; moreover, frontier psychology
                    demanded a departure from religious creeds which, while acceptable in the sedate East, found little
                    support on the democratically oriented, non-intellectual fringe of civilization. Posey describes the
                    evolution of camp meetings and the eventual success of denominational religion through its graphic
                    exhortations on salvation and damnation. The revival afforded the uneducated a direct emotional
                    release, and such frontier communication with God converted thousands of skeptics into believers. As
                    religion permeated the West, each sect viewed the other suspiciously; and soon suspicion evolved
                    into competition for church membership. Such theological rivalry, Posey suggests, subsided only in
                    times of national crises-in particular the Revolution, the Civil War, and the Catholic challenge.
            
               Religious Strife on the Southern Frontier is a compilation of lectures delivered by
                    the author at Louisiana State University in April, 1963. Understandably, lecture material must
                    exclude panoramic examinations and concentrate instead upon condensation of pertinent material.
                    Still, some depth analysis of the 1830's and 1840's-specifically the era of
                    Jacksonian reform and abolitionism-and their impact upon southern religious development would have
                    been welcome. Posey refers to these events, but the relationship between them remains vague and
                    serves to perplex rather than clarify. These points considered, the fact that the author has managed
                    to shed light upon frontier denominational warfare deserves the historian's thanks. Through
                    subtlety and wit, and the inclusion of illuminating quotes from nineteenth century religious leaders
                    of all shades, the author has demonstrated conclusively that religious harmony was, in general, a
                    negative force in frontier regions-existing periodically to withstand external forces more feared
                    than each other.
            Barry Grossbach, 
                  
                            Philadelphia
                         Community College
            
         
         
         
            
               Frontier: American Literature and the American West. By Edwin Fussell. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1965. Pp. xv, 450. Notes, index. $8.50.)
            Professor FusselFs book is a provocative analysis of the influence of the frontier on major American
                    writers of the early nineteenth century. Developing a "frontier metaphor" theory,
                    he re-examines the writings of Cooper, Hawthorne, Poe, Thoreau, Melville, and Whitman to demonstrate
                    that the frontier, as conceived by these writers, was the dominant force in the creation of a native
                    literature. According to his interpretation, this influence continued to play an important role
                    until the outbreak of the Civil War, which marked the end of the frontier and brought the first
                    period of American literature to a close.
            The frontier moved rapidly westward, forcing the pioneer to respond to new challenges. American
                    writers turned to these "intrinsically meaningless" experiences and elevated them
                    to the level of "ideas and forms." They took both the physical aspects (forests,
                    prairies, plains) and the social aspects (isolation, simplicity, restlessness) of the frontier, and
                    made them into symbols for the development of the new American culture. Gradually, the frontier, as
                    a figure of speech, became "the hopefully dynamic metaphor comprehending the dialectic of
                    civilization (such as it was) and nature (or the new start)" (p. 303). As might be
                    anticipated, ambivalence and ambiguities marked this basic metaphor.
            The author has collected a considerable amount of evidence in support of his thesis, and in the
                    process, has analyzed many minor works which are frequently neglected in books of this type.
                    However, by attempting to place all the writings covered into the narrow confines of his theory, he
                    has produced a rigid and limited interpretation which excludes the possibility of themes that are
                    not adaptable to his thesis.
            To interpret the efforts of these writers solely in terms of their responses to the frontier
                    occasionally leads to statements which the reader, accustomed to more traditional interpretations,
                    will consider absurb. For example, it is disconcerting to read that in Hawthorne's Scarlet Letter, Pearl "is the Spirit of the West, the rising glory of
                    America" (p. 98) and that Hester's "A" is emblematic of America
                    (p. 107); that Poe's Arthur Gordon Pym is a "tale of Western
                    adventure" (p. 150) entirely motivated by "Western fever" (p. 152) and
                    that the rooms in "The Masque of the Red Death" represent the various stages of
                    American development (p. 167); or that Moby Dick is a western hunting story (p.
                    257), the Pacific Ocean, the American West (p. 262), and Moby Dick, a buffalo (p. 274).
            Another distracting aspect of the book is the author's inclination to be overly zealous in
                    his search for "evidence," a weakness most apparent in the discussion of
                    Thoreau's "unwritten epic" on the American Indians. Here, Professor
                    Fussell has attempted to construct from notes and writings a "sense" of what
                    Thoreau would have said had he lived to write this study. He is forced to admit, however, that this
                    can only be done for "speculative profit and delight." The same criticism can be
                    made of his analysis of Poe's writings. Fussell has depended  heavily for his evidence on Poe's reviews; his only completed
                    novel, Arthur Gordon Pym; and another novel left unfinished, The
                        Journal of Julius Rodman. Except for the possible contribution of the reviews to literary
                    criticism, none of these works can be considered as major additions to the development of American
                    literature.
            Several other observations should be noted. First, Fussell omits any extensive analysis of
                    Emerson's writings. Because of his contributions to the period's literature and
                    the conspicuous affinity between transcendentalism and the frontier metaphor, it would seem that
                    either Emerson should have been included or some adequate explanation given for his omission.
                    Secondly, references are infrequently made to the Turner thesis; and because of the similarity of
                    emphasis with this study, it would have been desirable to make comparisons and contrasts more
                    obvious. His main criticism is that Turner failed to recognize that the real Americanization process
                    occurred only "within the minds and hearts of men, and that their being physically on the
                    frontier had no very magical effect upon them" (p. 216).
            Considering the work in its entirety, however, this study should recognized as a valuable
                    contribution toward defining a relationship between the frontier and American literature.
            Richard T. Farrell, University of 
                            Maryland
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The 
                            Chicago
                         School of Architecture: A History of Commercial and Public Buildings in the 
                            Chicago
                         Area, 1875-1925. By Carl W. Condit. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1964. Pp. xviii, 238. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $8.50.)
            The international recognition justly due 
                        Chicago
                     as the cradle of modern architecture is now generally granted by scholars of
                    architectural history. With recognition of the importance of 
                        Chicago
                    , scholarly interests and effort will inevitably produce an ever growing mound of books
                    and papers, the like of which are to be found listed in any bibliography dealing with works of
                    comparable importance from earlier historic periods. 
                        Chicago
                     is to modern architecture what Florence was to the architecture of the Renaissance, and 
                        Chicago
                     school architects and their masterpieces will merit the continued study of scholars as
                    has their earlier Florentine counterpart.
            
               The 
                            Chicago
                         School of Architecture by Carl W. Condit will undoubtedly play an important
                    role in generating broad attention to the 
                        Chicago
                     school. No one interested in the development of modern architecture can afford not to
                    have it in his library, as it brings together in readable form the most essential data for initial
                    acquaintance with the conditions and personalities involved in the natal stages of the architecture
                    of our time.
            The book is a well documented survey of the main current of development from the 
                        Chicago
                     fire of 1871 through the beginning of the First World War with some minor indications
                    of the later developments into the present. The bibliography contains all the solid published works
                    that are relevant and indicates sources for additional, purely 
                    descriptive, illustrative, or technical material. The index is sufficiently adequate to satisfy the
                    average scholar.
            The quality of the printing and the paper is good, though there is a tendency to identify the work as
                    a textbook of sorts; and it will probably be widely used as such in courses in modern architectural
                    history. The generous inclusion of socio-economic and political background information along with
                    relevant technological history will assist in the rational understanding of the many factors
                    contributing to 
                        Chicago
                    's selection by the fates of history for the birth of America's first
                    great contribution to world architecture.
            The illustrations are plentiful and of good textbook quality. Every major building produced during
                    the critical developmental period of the 
                        Chicago
                     style is illustrated. There are some important buildings which have a reasonable number
                    of details illustrated; there are some plans, and some structural details. On the whole, however,
                    one feels there is a general lack of details which would permit the identification of the individual
                    stylistic peculiarities of the various architects under consideration during the period.
            The frequent references to important buildings that have been demolished lend urgency to the desire
                    for answers to questions raised by Condit's general considerations. The illustration of
                    these demolished buildings with rare photos or drawings and pertinent chronological data ought to
                    spur scholars to the production of monographs on the existing buildings out of fear for their loss.
                    Such monographs could properly provide details of ornament, plan, and structure, along with more
                    thorough stylistic and critical analysis.
            Canio Radice, University of 
                     Illinois, Chicago
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               Landscape Artist in America: The Life and Work of Jens Jensen. By Leonard K.
                    Eaton. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1964. Pp. x, 240. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical essay.
                    $10.00.)
            It would have been strange indeed if the 
                        Chicago
                     that gave birth to modern architecture had not produced a great landscape architect.
                    That he was an immigrant who absorbed the revolutionary spirit which characterized the developments
                    of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries in architecture is also as would be expected.
            Leonard K. Eaton's Landscape Artist in America is a portrait of an artist,
                    Jens Jensen, bringing to the city and to the architects of the 
                        Chicago
                     revolution, an approach to landscape that was felicitous to their creations. Imbued
                    with the spirit of the prairie and identified with the great experiment in democracy, Jensen is
                    revealed by Eaton to be the collaborator and friend of Wright, Sullivan, Burnham, and many other
                    masters of the 
                        Chicago
                     school. An intimate of Vachel Lindsay and Harriet 
                        Monroe
                    , Jensen translated his love of poetry into his landscape creations. A great admirer of
                    Thoreau, and later Mahatma Gandhi and Albert Schweitzer, he was committed to a moral life and to the
                    importance of landscape in nature as the key to understanding life.
            
            Any well crafted work on landscape architecture is welcome to the students of architectural history.
                    A monograph on Jens Jensen is especially welcome since, more than any other man, he was responsible
                    for the character of the 
                        Chicago
                     park system and the wealth of 
                        Chicago
                     forest preserves that are unique for American cities. No real understanding of the 
                        Chicago
                     that produced the 
                        Chicago
                     school can be had without taking into account Jens Jensen.
            Eaton has produced a useful book which is clearly the result of sound scholarship. Unique are the
                    many photographs of the parks and gardens created by Jensen, in their present state, and on
                    occasion, as they were in previous states, yet designed to show the original Jensen creations. Along
                    with each photograph is a commentary, sometimes extracted from Jensen's own writings,
                    sometimes from the writings of his many admirers, associates, clients, and friends. There are plans
                    of the most important of his projects, and occasionally, letters relating to them.
            The socio-economic, political, and intellectual factors that influence the development of
                    Jensen's works are adequately discussed. In general, the book is well designed visually.
                    The addition of a list of illustrations and an index would have increased the usefulness of the
                    work, especially since it contains so many excerpts from primary sources that are not readily
                    available. In addition to the bibliographical essay, a conventional bibliography would be valuable.
            Canio Radice, University of 
                     Illinois, Chicago
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               The Case for Liberty. By Helen Hill Miller. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xvi, 254. Illustrations, note on sources, index. $5.95.)
            This book grew out of a conversation between the author, who is a journalist, and a lawyer. Convinced
                    that the provisions in the declaration of rights of a given colony had reminded its citizens of
                    special legal tests in which those rights had been at issue in the vicinity, the lawyer challenged
                    Mrs. Miller to pinpoint those instances. Subsequently Mrs. Miller combed the eastern seaboard for
                    illustrations, a few of which she incorporated into this study. She concedes that the list is not
                    exhaustive and that other cases in other locations aroused as much popular feeling as the ones she
                    records.
            In organizing her material Mrs. Miller used the federal bill of rights, the "greatest common
                    denominator," as a framework. For the prohibition of a state religion, she chose 
                        Virginia
                    's experiences with disestablishing the Church of 
                        England
                    , although complete separation was delayed almost a decade after the adoption of the
                    Virginia bill of rights. The following episodes illustrate the next eight articles: freedom of the
                    press, the Peter Zenger case; the right to bear arms, Bacon's Rebellion; quartering troops, 
                        New York
                    's struggle against this kind of taxation; unreasonable search and seizure, the
                    controversy in Massachusetts over general search warrants; due process of law, the case of printer
                    Thomas Powell, imprisoned for contempt of the South  Carolina
                    council; trial in the vicinage, the Gaspée incident; the right to a
                    jury trial, Forsey v. Cunningham in 
                        New York
                    , which involved the principle that facts properly tried by a jury could not be retried
                    in review; and freedom from extortion, the Regulator movement.
            The results of Mrs. Miller's work are not always convincing and occasionally even confusing.
                    One somtimes wonders whether the specific incident she relates really prompted the specific
                    provision, or whether other factors might not have contributed as much. For instance, in view of the
                    recurring need for self-defense, collective and individual, how much influence did Bacon's
                    Rebellion really have one hundred years later? Might not the years of general experience have been
                    as important as the specific instance?
            Occasionally Mrs. Miller resorts to speculation which may or may not approximate the truth. She
                    sometimes reaches conclusions which a professional historian would hedge with caveats. There are
                    indeed areas in the modern 
                        United States
                     where the privately owned revolver is not considered the weapon of a criminal.
                    Furthermore, linking judicial disallowance of a 
                        Dallas
                     ordinance which prohibited possession of firearms in the city with the Kennedy
                    assassination is far-fetched, for few assassins are likely to consult city ordinances. There are no
                    footnotes, merely notes on sources at the end of the book, where one finds a not very satisfactory
                    documentation of sorts. For identification of the pictures scattered throughout, one must consult a
                    list of illustrations at the beginning of the book.
            Of course, since Mrs. Miller has not written for professional historians, she cannot be faulted for
                    departing from the canons from time to time. Her accounts are usually clear and concise, and no
                    doubt the "general reader" may come to appreciate some of the complexities and
                    sacrifices behind precious rights. At any rate, people who are interested in legal and
                    constitutional history will find the book entertaining and perhaps informative.
            Frances Krauskopf, St. Francis College, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Railroads and American Economic Growth: Essays in Econometric History. By Robert
                    William Fogel. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins Press, 1964. Pp. xv, 296. Notes, tables, maps, figures, charts,
                    appendixes, selected bibliography, index. $6.95.)
            In this work Professor Fogel has dealt some devastating blows to many widely held beliefs about the
                    magnitude of the railroads' contribution to the development of the American economy during
                    the last century. He is additionally skeptical of W. W. Rostow's thesis about the take-off
                    period between 1843 and 1860 when presumably this nation moved into "self-sustained
                    growth."
            Some of the findings of the book will not be new to economic historians who have read earlier efforts
                    of Professor Fogel, especially "A Quantitative Approach to the Study of Railroads in
                    American Economic Growth" which appeared in the Journal of Economic
                    History in June, 1962. Scattered writings of other economists and historians  have given inklings of the thesis to which the author devoted himself.
                    All this, however, is scarcely preparation for the frontal assault. A reading of the Preface is
                    likely to cow a skeptic. Fogel has acknowledged help from so many outstanding minds in economics and
                    history that a timid reader will be overwhelmed by the opposition and reluctant to question the
                    findings. Beyond this, Professor Fogel has anticipated rejoinders of critics. Within the book, and
                    especially in the final section, he deals with expected objections with great certitude, skill, and
                    perspective.
            Fogel sets out to question the "axiom of indispensability of the railroads," and he
                    refuses to accept the thesis that the railroads were largely responsible for much of the
                    nation's development, especially that of the agricultural West. He is skeptical about the
                    value of the chronological record of railroad achievements and about early utterances of railroad
                    officials as well as those of contemporary scholars. Fogel sets out with modern statistical
                    techniques and mathematical models to ascertain what the contribution of the railroads was in the
                    last century, especially as it relates to agricultural commodities. In addition, he analyzes the
                    significance of the railroad industry to iron and steel. Using great imagination, Fogel measures
                    what the costs of transport or "social saving" would have been in any given year
                    if, instead of utilizing the actual cost of shipping agricultural goods, the nation had utilized the
                    alternative of water and wagon transport.
            A doubting Thomas can naturally conjure all sorts of objections to Fogel's efforts only to
                    be dismayed by discovering that Fogel was aware of the same dilemmas and has with great ingenuity
                    circumvented most of them. He utilizes the year 1890 for most of his computations and divides his
                    analysis into two parts. The first involves inter-regional movement of four commodities-wheat, corn,
                    pork, and beef-which accounted for 90 per cent of the tonnage of such shipments. The second deals
                    with twenty-seven commodities for determination of the intra-regional social saving. He ultimately
                    establishes several figures based on varying assumptions, but this review will use $214
                    million as the upper limit by which the railroads changed the potential production of the economy
                    through a reduction in the cost of transporting agricultural products as compared with using water
                    and wagons. Professor Fogel is not necessarily scaling down the role of transportation, only the
                    role of railroads. He points out succinctly that there had been considerable development of
                    agriculture beyond the Appalachians before the railroads had come into being and that much of the
                    settlement would have continued in the absence of railroads. Some of his maps show that a canal and
                    river sytsem could have served most of our sources of agricultural production up to the turn of the
                    century, exceptions being parts of 
                  Illinois,
                            Iowa, Nebraska
               , and 
                        Kansas
                    , which would have been impaired to a slightly greater extent than other producing
                    areas. Lack of railroads might have reduced per capita income of the 1890 population of 63,000,000
                    about $3.40 or from $190 to something under $187.
            No one should jump to the conclusion that Fogel is so naive as to think that the nation does not show
                    the profound effects of the existence  of the railroads in the
                    particular form and location of our cities. He would counter by indicating that we might well have
                    had institutions showing equally proper adaptation to the particular technologies and routes of
                    commerce. The author reverts back to an earlier period to concentrate on the Rostow thesis and shows
                    that the iron and steel industry had already undergone substantial expansion long before 1843 and
                    that the demands of the railroads did not necessarily dominate the output of the metal industries.
                    He notes that in 1850 the tonnage devoted to nails was substantially in excess of that devoted to
                    rails. He would argue that the stimulus to take off was not as narrow in its source as had been
                    presumed nor as restricted in the time period. By implication Rostow was simply misled by bad
                    research of economic historians whose studies he unwittingly accepted.
            The book is filled with examples of incredible ingenuity, perspective, and familiarity with
                    literature of the time as well as the present. One has a sneaking suspicion that the best attack
                    upon the book could be written by Fogel himself and that he could perhaps do two volumes of
                    criticism easier than he could do a second volume on the same thesis. Few books warrant closer study
                    than this. The sparkling and bristling style is certain to sustain interest. Readers may be dubious
                    as to whether or not even Fogel made enough provision for the low quality of some of his raw data.
                    Yet his efforts cannot be thrust aside or rejected. Anyone who teaches the history of this period or
                    even speaks of it in conversation, no matter how much his affection for the romance of the rails, is
                    sure to temper future utterances.
            L. Leslie Waters, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Economic Change in the Civil War Era: Proceedings of a Conference on American
                        Economic Institutional Change, 1850-1873, and the Impact of the Civil War. Edited by David
                    T. Gilchrist and W. David Lewis. (
                  Greenville,
                            Delaware
               : Eleutherian Mills-Hagley
                    Foundation, 1965. Pp. ix, 180. Notes, tables, map. Cloth, $2.00; paper-bound,
                    $1.25.)
            It is hardly surprising that in these centennial years historians should be concerned with a
                    reappraisal of the economic effects of the Civil War. In a thought-provoking article entitled
                    "Did the Civil War Retard Industrialization?" (Mississippi Valley
                        Hitsorical Review, September, 1961) Thomas C. Cochran challenged the generally held belief
                    that the war stimulated industrial growth. The following year, in The Economic Impact
                        of the Civil War (
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               , 1962), a book of readings edited
                    by Ralph Andreano, Stephen Salsbury took issue with Cochran, questioning his use and intrepretation
                    of statistics and pleading for more research before conclusions were drawn. Both the Cochran and
                    Salsbury articles have been widely discussed and reprinted. Now, in the book under review, we have
                    the report of a conference formed "to explore the hypothesis that significant changes may
                    have occurred in the institutional framework of economic life during the War
                    years…" (p. v). It may astonish many readers to  learn that, with but few exceptions, the participants in the conference
                    "generally agreed that the Civil War had relatively little or no effect on the particular
                    economic institutions they were asked to discuss" (p. 172).
            The conference began with a public lecture at the University of Delaware by George Rogers Taylor of
                    Amherst College, Thursday evening, March 12, 1964. Entitling his remarks, "The National
                    Economy Before and After the Civil War," Professor Taylor pointed out that the per capita
                    rate of economic growth turned significantly upward at least twenty years before the outbreak of the
                    war and continued at the pre-war rate into the post-war years. In explaining this phenomenon he
                    stressed the importance of population increase and redistribution, particularly the growth in size
                    of cities, due to a high birth rate, the exodus from rural New 
                        England
                    , and foreign immigration. The expanding urban areas provided a market for western
                    foodstuffs and at the same time supplied "an abundant and effective labor force for
                    commercial and industrial expansion." Taylor admitted that this was only a part of the
                    story but insisted that it was a very important part.
            The other sessions of the conference were held on Friday and Saturday, March 13-14, at the
                    Eleutherian Mills Historical Library, a part of the DuPont-sponsored Eleutherian Mills-Hagley
                    Foundation at 
                        Greenville
                    , Deleware. The gathering was a distinguished one, including some seventy-five persons,
                    most of whom were economic historians. There were six principal speakers, each of whom was followed
                    by a commentator. After the scheduled comment, the meeting was thrown open to general discussion.
                    Participants were asked to speak from notes rather than to read formally prepared papers; some
                    appear to have done so. The proceedings were evidently taped, and it is the edited tape which is
                    reproduced in Economic Change in the Civil War Era. (Footnotes have been inserted
                    for the information of scholars.)
            Specific subjects explored at the conference were commercial banking (by Robert P. Sharkey and Fritz
                    Redlich); foreign investment in American enterprise (by Harry H. Pierce and Vincent P. Carosso); the
                    international market for agricultural commodities (by Morton Rothstein and William N. Parker);
                    government-business relations (by Louis Hartz and Daniel J. Elazar); science and technology (by A.
                    Hunter Dupree and Robert V. Bruce); and the organization of manufacturing and transportation (by
                    Alfred D. Chandler, Jr., and Arthur M. Johnson). All the presentations were provocative, the
                    comments informed, the discussions lively. Much of what was said (notably by Professor Pierce on
                    foreign investments and by Professor Rothstein on foreign markets) came from as-yet-unpublished
                    research and is not to be found in print elsewhere.
            An exception to the general agreement upon the unimportant role of the Civil War in institutional
                    change was found by the conferees in the area of commercial banking, where significant modifications
                    were introduced by the National Banking Act of 1863 and its amendments. That the Banking Act was in
                    part a response to the necessities of the war was pointed up by Professor Redlich's
                    "succinct analysis  of the relationship between the
                    problem of marketing Union securities and the legislation establishing the National Banking
                    System" (p. 172). Professor Hartz, in his remarks on government-business relations,
                    stressed the growth in political power of the federal government during the war; but Professor
                    Elazar saw such growth as part of a continuing trend and drew attention to a similar expansion of
                    government at state and local levels. Professor Chandler focused his remarks on the significance of
                    the transportation revolution in the ten or fifteen years before the war. For the rest, changes in
                    economic institutions were seen as evolutionary, stretching through the entire twenty-three year
                    span to which the conference gave its attention, rather than as a result of the war itself.
            This very good book, which no serious student of the American economy or the Civil War era can afford
                    to be without, includes a summary of the conference by Harld F. Williamson, who served as chairman;
                    short notes on each of the principal speakers and commentators; and a list of all the participants.
                    Unfortunately, it lacks an index.
            Irene D. Neu, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Crisis of the Union, 1860-1861. Edited by George Harmon Knoles. ([
                        Baton Rouge
                    ]: Louisiana State University Press, 1965. Pp. vi, 115. Notes, list of contributors.
                    $3.50.)
            In 1963, under the sponsorship of 
                        Stanford
                     University's Institute of American History, Glyndon G. Van Deusen of the
                    University of 
                        Rochester
                     discussed "Why the Republican Party Came to Power"; Roy F. Nichols of
                    the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , "Why the Democratic Party Divided"; Avery O. Craven of the
                    University of 
                        Chicago
                    , "Why the Southern States Seceded"; and David M. Potter of 
                        Stanford
                    , "Why the Republicans Rejected Both Compromise and Secession."
                    Comment was provided by Don E. Fehrenbacher of 
                        Stanford
                    , Robert W. Johannsen of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , and Charles G. Sellers, Jr., and Kenneth M. Stampp of the University of California at 
                        Berkeley
                    . The four papers and four critiques are published in this book, with the
                    Institute's able director serving as editor.
            Among these experts' numerous suggestions and opinions, a few may be selected as
                    illustrating judgments of particular scholars. Van Deusen, for example, says, "If pressed
                    to single out the most important concrete factor" involved in his topic, "I would
                    answer that it was the prospect of the extension of slavery" (p. 19). Fehrenbacher believes
                    that, although "slavery in the territories had ceased to be a pressing substantive
                    issue" by late 1858, "the odds were plainly with the Republicans" after
                    President Buchanan's endorsement of the Lecompton Constitution (pp. 25, 29). According to
                    Nichols, the Democratic party broke up "because of a complex series of personal
                    failures" (p. 50). While acknowledging this as "a large factor,"
                    Johannsen adds that "something must be said" for "divisive
                    forces" and for "issues and antagonisms … deeply rooted in
                    men's minds" (p. 59).
            
            Craven points out that "the Northern mind and conscience had kept pace" with the
                    industry, cities, finance, and railroads of the era, while Southerners "deliberately
                    … turned their backs on the nineteenth century" (pp. 71, 75). To Sellers, the
                    South multiplied "threatening forces of outside criticism until the tension became
                    intolerable" (p. 89). Potter thinks the Republicans "took the steps that led them
                    into a war … because they could not grasp the fearfully decisive consequences"
                    of their "rather indecisive line of action" (p. 106). Finally, Stampp attributes
                    Republican preferences and procedures to a "variety of reasons," including
                    political strategy, moral conviction, and national pride (p. 113).
            Such excerpts do only partial justice to the nuances (most of them highly creditable) resulting from
                    the years of research and writing which these authorities' careers exemplify. This reader
                    subscribes to most of the judgments, notably those of Van Deusen, Nichols, and Fehrenbacher. At
                    least twice, commentators draw model distinctions between the paper-readers' viewpoints and
                    their own. One important line of demarcation appears in the Potter-Stampp division regarding the
                    "supreme task of the historian" (p. 108). Quality adorns so many of the pages that
                    constant scholarly objectives of accuracy and lucid analysis will be splendidly served if The Crisis of the Union is placed in the hands of graduate students and
                    undergraduates in seminars and lecture rooms throughout the land.
            Holman Hamilton, University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Era of Reconstruction, 1865-1877. By Kenneth M. Stampp. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1965. Pp. ix, 228, iv. Notes, bibliographical note, index.
                    $4.95.)
            For many years the standard view of Reconstruction in this country has been a Southern one, namely
                    that it was sordid in its motives, oppressive in its application, and tragic in its consequences.
                    During the past generation, however, and especially since 1960, historians have thoroughly
                    re-examined the period. As a result all of the old concepts have been either totally rejected or
                    substantially modified. According to the new interpretation Reconstruction contained at least as
                    much good as bad and represented in particular a worthwhile attempt to deal with a problem which
                    still vitally concerns the nation-that of the Negro's place and role in American life. This
                    revisionistic approach, which obviously has been influenced by modern-day developments on the civil
                    rights front, already prevails among professional historians and is rapidly making its way into the
                    textbooks and classrooms.
            Kenneth M. Stampp's The Era of Reconstruction sums up the new research and
                    is avowedly revisionistic. In general it is superior to John Hope 
                        Franklin
                    's Reconstruction After the Civil War, (1961) the only other
                    book so far available that presents a synthesis of recent Reconstruction historiography. Not only
                    does it have the advantage of later scholarship, but it is better written and more objective. In
                    fact Stampp's work can be compared favorably to Clement Eaton's History of the Southern Confederacy in that it packs a lot of information  and sound analysis into a relatively short space and in an eminently
                    readable style.
            Because of the long domination of the Southern viewpoint on Reconstruction, it is always necessary,
                    in writing or speaking of the subject, not only to describe what happened but also what did not.
                    Stampp does an excellent job of this, using facts and common sense to demolish many fallacies and
                    misconceptions. Especially perceptive is his criticism of Charles Beard's "Second
                    American Revolution" thesis, which saw Reconstruction policy as mainly inspired by the
                    economic interests of Northern big business. Stampp readily grants that Beard and his followers made
                    a valuable contribution to history by calling attention to the economic aspects of the period. But,
                    as usual in their case, they went too far–so much so that they practically excluded all
                    other factors. The reason for their one-sidedness, Stampp believes, lies in a concept of history
                    which regarded economic motives as the only "real" ones and which ignored other
                    types of causation.
            In conjunction with his criticism of Beard, Stampp also disposes of the old question of whether the
                    Radicals were motivated by "idealism" or by "partisanship." He
                    simply points out that neither in the minds of the Radicals nor as a matter of objective fact was
                    their any inherent contradiction between the two, at least during the early stages of
                    Reconstruction. In other words, by advancing the cause of the Negro the Radicals advanced the
                    interests of the Republican party and vice versa. Eventually, of course,
                    Reconstruction ended ingloriously as the North and the Republican party abandoned the Negro to the
                    Southern "Redemptionists." The Radical effort to establish and protect Negro civil
                    and political rights had apparently failed. In the long run, however, it did not. While in power,
                    and by the only means and at the only time they could have done so, the Radicals had put through the
                    Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments. Nearly a hundred years later, these measures served as the
                    legal springboard for a New Reconstruction, one which must succeed or this nation shall fail.
            Since The Era of Reconstruction is essentially and frankly a summary of the work of
                    other writers, the specialist will encounter little in it that is new; but he will experience the
                    satisfaction of seeing most of his judgments affirmed by one of the leading historians of the Civil
                    War period. The non-specialist, the student, and the interested layman will find the book a
                    stimulating as well as an informative introduction to the latest and best in Reconstruction
                    scholarship. It is to be hoped that this work reaches a large audience, especially among people of
                    influence, and will thus help to dispel some of the myths about Reconstruction that hamper efforts
                    in the civil rights field to this day.
            Albert Castel, Western Michigan University
            
         
         
            
               William Jennings Bryan. Volume I, Political Evangelist,
                    1860-1908. By Paolo E. Coletta. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 1964. Pp. x, 486. Notes, illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $6.50.)
            The writer of this review agrees with the late Claude Bowers who, writing shortly before his death a
                    few years ago, believed that even historians had failed to do justice to William Jennings Bryan. The
                    H. L.  Mencken image of Bryan projected at the Scopes trial and
                    the play and movie, "Inherit the Wind," have tended to confirm the stereotype of a
                    narrow-minded, unintelligent bigot. Of the half dozen or more earlier biographies of the Commoner
                    none is satisfactory.
            If Bowers were writing in 1965, however, his assessment would, no doubt, be different. A new interest
                    in Bryan has recently developed among historians; and, for the most part, a new and fairer picture
                    of him is emerging. In addition to the book reviewed, the works of Paul Glad and Lawrence W. Levine,
                    among others, are providing a better balanced interpretation of the Nebraska statesman.
            Professor Coletta's work is the first volume of a projected two-volume biography of Bryan.
                    If the scholarship that goes into the second volume even approaches the painstaking effort evidenced
                    in the first, the completed work will come about as near being definitive as any biography can be.
                    It is to be hoped, however, that readers will not have to wait as long for the second volume as for
                    the first. For some eighteen or twenty years Professor Coletta, along with his teaching, has been
                    gathering material and writing this volume. Unlike some writers on Bryan, he has not
                    "rushed in where angels fear to tread" in treating this complex and controversial
                    character in American history. His treatment is neither sensational nor superficial. He has combed
                    many sources, both primary and secondary. This reviewer, who himself has gone through the Bryan
                    papers in the Library of Congress, knows of no one who has searched and used his collection more
                    extensively than Coletta has. He has also used numerous other manuscript collections, including
                    unused Bryan papers preserved by the late Euth Bryan Rhode, a daughter of the Commoner, and those
                    preserved by the late Silas Bryan, a nephew. In addition, the author had the use of the Henry Steele
                    Commager papers which Commager began to gather a number of years ago for a Bryan biography, but
                    which he never completed.
            In view of the large number of sources used, it may seem ungracious to call attention to others not
                    drawn upon. Nevertheless, some may be a bit surprised that, apparently, neither the Ignatius
                    Donnelly nor the James B. Weaver collection was used.
            The author's aim is to deal with Bryan largely as a political figure who left his impress on
                    American foreign and domestic policy from 1890, when he entered Congress, through his third defeat
                    for the presidency in 1908. He succeeds well in his purpose. More could have been said, however,
                    about Bryan's social and religious thought, even in this earlier period, had the author
                    chosen to do so.
            Bryan's greatest contribution, thinks the author, "was his insistence that
                    political liberty could work only in the context of relative economic equality" (p. 438).
                    Influenced by Jeffersonian agrarianism, he worked for the restoration of that economic opportunity
                    which was destroyed by a triumphant, unregulated capitalism. All of his numerous reforms, nearly all
                    of which were later adopted during the Progressive movement or during the New Deal, had this
                    restoration in mind.
            The weaknesses of this work are few and minor compared with its strengths. Some may disagree with a
                    minor statement of fact here or a judgment there. This reviewer, for example, would be willing to
                         make still greater concessions to the Tightness of
                    Bryan's position on free silver, at least down to 1897, than the author apparently does.
                    The work of Professor 
                        Milton
                     Friedman, an outstanding authority on economics and finance at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , and who as one of Barry Goldwater's advisers in last year's campaign
                    could hardly be characterized as a flaming radical, could have been profitably cited at this point.
                    Some other readers may feel that the work moves along too slowly; that it is too detailed, and at
                    times repetitious. But, whatever the minor blemishes may be, one has a feeling that here is an
                    excellent, trustworthy, and scholarly work on Bryan down to 1908–one In which the author,
                    with no axes to grind, makes a serious and successful effort, not to exalt or pillory, but to
                    understand the man who, with all his mistakes, deserves more credit than has usually been given him
                    for the important part he played in the Progressive movement.
            Willard H. Smith, 
                  
                            Goshen
                         College
            
         
         
            
               Five Novelists of the Progressive Era. By Robert W. Schneider. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1965. Pp. vii, 290. Notes, index. $7.50.)
            The Progressive Era, either as a halcyon period before the holocaust of two world wars or as a period
                    of transition necessary before the acceptance of a scientific orientation, has recently attracted
                    the attention of social scientists and cultural historians alike. Richard Hofstadter's Social Darwinism in American Thought and Henry May's The End
                        of American Innocence are two cases in point. Robert W. Schneider's Five Novelists of the Progressive Era, an attempt to shed light on the period 1890-1917
                    through a close examination of the work of five writers of fiction, seems to be a blend of the two
                    approaches. The author concentrates his attention on "the thought patterns of a generation
                    which reached intellectual maturity during the 1890s" (p. 5) and selects literary figures
                    as his sources because they best represent a continuity of the old traditions and an intelligent
                    criticism of the new ideas. His conclusion is that the period defined was one "of uneasy
                    transition, not of intellectual revolution" (p. 255).
            The authors selected as focal figures immediately raise problems. Howells as a mild realist with a
                    genuine interest in social reform is an inevitable choice. Dreiser with his determinism, his
                    antipathy to capitalism, and his pet theory of "chemic" compulsions directing
                    human behavior is equally unavoidable (although the failure to consider An American
                        Tragedy, 1925, weakens the argument). The inclusion of Winston Churchill, at one time an
                    enormously popular novelist as well as an actual participant in 
                        New Hampshire
                     politics, is particularly appropriate. But it is hard to understand why Stephen Crane
                    and Frank Norris are given similar attention. Although Crane's association with early
                    American naturalism (he published Maggie in 1893) is well established, his role as
                    a significant social thinker is surely questionable. And today one can hardly take Norris'
                    rhapsodic romanticism very  seriously even though The Octopus does condemn the machinations of California railroads. Professor Schneider may
                    not have wished to deal with Hamlin Garland, whose later novels seem to evade social issues; and he
                    is right in rejecting David Graham Phillips as insignificant today. But it is difficult to condone
                    the omission of Jack 
                        London
                    , who gets one index reference, and especially of Eobert Herrick, who is completely
                    ignored. Herrick's 
                        Chicago
                     fiction, consistently focused on the issues of moral responsibility and personal
                    aggrandizement, would seem to present the best kind of evidence to substantiate a study of this
                    kind.
            The five chapters have an identical pattern: a brief biographical summary, definite emphasis on the
                    social position and education of the authors, and plot resumes of the novels treated. Professor
                    Schneider is not primarily interested, of course, in problems of characterization or artistic
                    structure. He discusses at great length, however, the views of various characters, whether or not
                    they represent the attitudes of the authors, if they include any awareness of social or ideological
                    issues. Thus Dreiser's Eugene Witla, Churchill's Jethro Bass, and Norris'
                    McTeague are given special attention.
            The present study had its inception as a doctoral dissertation at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , and it reveals some of the limitations of its genre. Although clearly written and well
                    organized, it suffers from extensive quotation and rather banal summaries of the plots of novels.
                    There are also a number of inaccuracies. Surely Charles Horton (not Horten) Cooley was a
                    sociologist, not a psychologist. The author of The Economic Novel in America is
                    Walter (not William) Fuller Taylor. Charles Shapiro (not Chapero) is the co-editor of The Stature of Theodore Dreiser. One minor stylistic peccadillo must also be mentioned.
                    The author frequently uses the political term "mugwump" which he identifies
                    alternately with conservative (p. 215) and with liberal (pp. 221, 225, 241), but on page 235 he can
                    refer to "the old genteel mugwump tradition." Humpty Dumpty can of course make
                    words mean what he wishes them to mean; a critic carefully distinguishing and defining ought to be
                    more consistent.
            John T. Flanagan, University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The National Farmers Union: Ideology of a Pressure Group. By John A. Crampton. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 1965. Pp. xii, 251. Notes, figures, tables,
                    bibliography, index. $5.50.)
            Scholars in recent decades have scrutinized farm politics and policies. Of the farm groups, the
                    activities of the largest and most powerful, the American Farm Bureau, have been closely examined.
                    Not since the 1920's, however, has there been a substantial investigation of the Farmers
                    Union, the smallest and second oldest of the three major farm organizations. Partly responding to
                    this need, Professor Crampton, a political scientist at Lewis and Clark College, has concentrated on
                    the relationship of theory and practice in the Union.
            
            A liberal organization, despite reasonably conservative members, the Union has long presented a
                    double paradox which Crampton seeks to unravel: why do conservatives join, and how does it remain
                    liberal? The members are mostly Republicans and not uncomfortable by farm standards. Perhaps they
                    and their neighbors suffered more in the depression; and the pain of those years has led them to the
                    Union, as Crampton suggests, rather than to conservative rivals. The liberal ideology, though
                    formulated by the leadership, is supported by a small "committed core" of
                    rank-and-file liberals (p. 87). To maintain the organization the leaders must avoid conflicts
                    between their ideology and the views of most members. In particular, when the aims of the Union as a
                    farm-interest group threaten to clash with its goals as a liberal-opinion group, they must blunt or
                    resolve the differences.
            As an interest group the Union's chief concerns are preservation of the family farm and the
                    advancement of dirt farmers. Though the programs are frequently bold and imaginative, they are
                    usually palatable to the membership. As a liberal group, however, the Union, by endorsing
                    legislation for improved labor conditions or racial equality, will frequently act contrary to the
                    attitudes of many members and some state organizations. Nevertheless, the leaders have generally
                    escaped conflict (by tactics which Crampton analyzes). They justify some policies, such as pro-labor
                    legislation, on the ground that the Union must represent more than a selfish interest to achieve its
                    farm program. Leaders may blur the differences by presenting ideological issues solely in
                    interest-group terms. Through images and slogans, which evoke conservative values, the Union also
                    gains approval for some of its liberal programs. Sometimes, however, the organization retreats from
                    conflict; and practice openly violates ideology. For example, its Virginia chapter, despite
                    opposition to desegration, remains in good standing while the Union preaches and lobbies for racial
                    equality. Leaders occasionally compromise ideology to save themselves, not the organization: despite
                    firmly expressed faith in democratic processes, they have never sought to institutionalize dissent
                    or parties within the Union.
            The book is doubly flawed: it is marred by some factual errors and occasional erratic footnoting;
                    more seriously, the development of the narrow theme, while based on numerous interviews, betrays a
                    lack of imagination. The analysis is mechanical and limited. A superficial cataloging of the
                    Union's position on public issues, the book misses the structure and nuance of thought. The
                    conclusions are of restricted value because the author has generally neglected to compare the Union
                    with other groups, such as labor unions, which face similar conflicts between ideology and practice.
                    It is impossible, then, to judge whether the Union's techniques of avoiding conflict are
                    typical. Despite these serious defects, however, this study is the best single source on the Farmers
                    Union.
            Barton J. Bernstein, 
                  
                            Stanford
                         University
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               New Governor in Indiana: The Challenges of Executive Power. By David J. Allen. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Institute of Public Administration, Indiana University, 1965. Pp. x, 70. Notes, chart,
                    appendix, bibliography. Paperbound.) David J. Allen, a member of Governor Branigin's and
                    former Governor Welsh's staffs, has written an interesting booklet regarding the role of
                    the governor in Indiana. Since the authority and power of Indiana governors have substantially
                    increased in recent decades, the need for an orderly transition from one governor to another has
                    likewise increased. Allen's study also explains how the transition is made from one chief
                    executive to another. This booklet is especially helpful in indicating how the office of governor
                    functioned during the Welsh administration. What Allen says supports the view that although a
                    governor's administration is much influenced by his own abilities, goals, and personality;
                    nevertheless, circumstances beyond his control are often overriding. For instance, the divided
                    political situation which existed during the Welsh administration afforded multiplied problems which
                    placed severe restraints and limitations on Welsh's role as governor. On the other hand,
                    Allen's account makes clear that every governor–especially one such as Roger D.
                    Branigin–can and does have a major part in determining the mood, goals, and achievements
                    of his administration. The booklet also suggests that it is perhaps easier to describe how an
                    administration has functioned than to indicate how the succeeding one will function.
            
               New Indiana Legislation: The 1965 Regular Session. By Barbara Byers Howard. [Indiana Public Affairs Notes, Vol. VII, No. 2.] (
                        Bloomington
                    : Institute of Public Administration, Indiana University, 1965. Pp. 3. Pamphlet, free.)
            
               State Support of Public Education in Indiana. By F. Jeanette Knoll. [Indiana Public Affairs Notes, Vol. VII, No. 3.] (
                        Bloomington
                    : Institute of Public Administration, Indiana University, 1965. Pp. 5. Tables, notes.
                    Pamphlet, free.)
            These two issues of Indiana Public Affairs Notes include much information in
                    concise form. In the March-April issue Mrs. Barbara Byers Howard of the Indiana University Institute
                    of Public Administration gives an excellent summary of legislation enacted by the 1965 Indiana
                    General Assembly. In the May-June number Miss F. Jeanette Knoll of the Indiana State Budget Agency
                    contributes an informative account of state support of public education in Indiana at the elementary
                    and secondary levels. Both items merit the careful attention of legislators and other public
                    officials, teachers and students, and of citizens generally.
            
               Catalog of the David Demaree Banta Indiana Collection. Edited by Robert Y. Coward
                    and Hester H. Coward. (Menasha, Wis.: George Banta Co., 1965. Pp. xiii, 212. Index. Paperbound.) In
                    September, 1960, these pages noted the first edition of a catalog of items found  in the Banta Collection of the 
                        Franklin
                     College library. This second edition indicates rapid growth in accessions to the Banta
                    Collection during the last five years. About a thousand additional titles have been added, resulting
                    in a doubling of items listed. (The editor has been informed that the actual collection is much
                    larger than described in the second edition but that numerous items have not yet been formally
                    cataloged.) Roger D. Branigin, Class of 1923, presented the original Banta Collection to 
                        Franklin
                     College in 1960. This second edition has been published in connection with the
                    inclusion of the enlarged collection in the new B. F. Hamilton Memorial Library which 
                        Franklin
                     College dedicated earlier this year. The variety of items in the collection is amazing.
                    Such items include books and periodicals ranging from early volumes about Indiana and the Middle
                    West through numerous county histories to more recent books concerning Indiana's literary,
                    economic, political, and social history. With this impressive example of what can be done in
                    developing a library collection, the Baptists of Indiana should give thoughtful consideration to
                    designation of 
                        Franklin
                     College as a depository for minutes, manuscripts, diaries, and related items regarding
                    all aspects of Indiana Baptist history.
            
               Mother George: 
                            Fort Wayne
                        's Angel of Mercy. By Hilary A. Sadler. (
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Ind.: 
                        Allen County
                    -
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society, 1964. Illustrations. Paperbound.) Mrs. Eliza E. George, known to
                    Indiana troops as Mother George, was one of scores of Hoosier women who served as volunteer nurses
                    during the Civil War. Already fifty-four years old and the mother of at least three daughters when
                    her nursing career began, she cared for Indiana troops through a number of engagements and battles
                    for about two and one half years before dying of typhoid fever. In this pamphlet Hilary A. Sadler
                    has collected a small but significant body of primary source material regarding Mother George.
                    Unfortunately the Civil War Centennial observances, only recently formally closed, generally gave
                    inadequate attention to social, economic, political, and constitutional history of the Civil War
                    era. Sadler's sketch of the life and services of Mrs. Eliza E. George is a timely reminder
                    of this deficiency.
            
               
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                        's Fire Department, 1839-1964. By George K. Bradley. (
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Ind.: 
                        Allen County
                    -
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society, 1964. Pp. 96. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography.
                    Paperbound.) George K. Bradley has written an interesting account of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     fire department during its first one hundred twenty-five years. In pictures as well as
                    text, this booklet describes the department's development from its early volunteer status
                    to its present highly organized role as one of the principal agencies of city government.
                    Bradley's work is obviously the result of considerable research. Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History will remember Bradley as the author of 
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                        's Trolleys which appeared in 1963.
            
            
               Early Lighting in New 
                            England
                        , 1620-1861. By Helen Brigham Hebard. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Co.,
                    1964. Pp. 88. Illustrations, bibliography, index. $3.50.) This popular booklet makes
                    delightful reading. Its emphasis is on methods and devices for lighting houses in New 
                        England
                     during the period, 1620-1861. Well illustrated, this modest volume has the grace and
                    charm which its author associates with candle light (p. 71). The fact that its author died in 1961
                    suggests at least the possibility that the book was edited and perhaps even the pictures selected
                    without benefit of review and approval by the author.
            
               Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : Harry S. Truman …, 1948, (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Government Printing Office, 1964. Pp. xxxiii, 1079. Frontispiece, notes,
                    appendixes, Index. $9.75.)
            
               Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : Harry S. Truman …, 1949. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Government Printing Office, 1964. Pp. xxxiii, 671. Frontispiece, notes,
                    appendixes, index. $6.75.)
            
               Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : John F. Kennedy …, 1963. (
                        Washington
                    : U.S. Government Printing Office, 1964. Pp. xlix, 1007. Frontispiece, appendixes,
                    index. $9.00.)
            
               The Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        
                is a useful and well-established series. The three volumes indicated above
                    continue the series noted in these pages in March, 1964 (p. 117). The two Truman volumes cover the
                    eventful presidential election of 1948 and the beginning of Truman's own presidential
                    years. The Kennedy volume runs from the beginning of 1963 through the day of his assassination on
                    November 22. The two final documents in the latter volume are the texts of addresses prepared for
                    delivery at 
                        Dallas
                     and Austin, 
                        Texas
                    . The three volumes indicate the substantial differences in style, personality, and
                    method between Presidents Kennedy and Truman. They illustrate the fact that the role of the
                    President of the 
                        United States
                     depends to a great extent on the kind and caliber of man he is. An American President
                    makes, as well as reflects, events and circumstances.
            
               The Assassination and History of the Conspiracy …, with a new Foreword
                    by Roy P. Basler. Facsimile reprint. (
                        New York
                    : Hobbs, Dorman, 1965. Pp. xxii, 189. Illustrations. Paperbound, $2.95.) This
                    book is a republication of a volume which first appeared in 1865. In a new Foreward Roy P. Basler, 
                        Lincoln
                     scholar, comments, "The centennial of 
                        Lincoln
                    's assassination seems an appropriate time to make it [the 1865 book] available
                    as a peculiarly significant record, not only of the facts, but also of the rumors and suspicions
                    which beclouded the days and weeks following 'Black Friday,' April 14, 1865. Those
                    events in many respects paralleled, if they did not entirely duplicate, those of the period
                    following the most tragic Friday in our own era, November 22, 1963." The parallel to the
                    Kennedy assassination  seems overdrawn, but doubtless widespread
                    interest in this tragic event will prompt many readers to study comparisons and contrasts between
                    these two assassinations.
            
               Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders. By Ezra J. Warner. ([
                        Baton Rouge
                    ]: Louisiana State University Press, 1964. Pp. xxiv, 679. Illustrations, appendixes,
                    notes, bibliography. $12.50.) Warner's Generals in Blue is of
                    course a companion volume to his Generals in Gray, published in 1959. The
                    author's purpose is "to tell the complete story of the men who led the brigades,
                    divisions, corps, and armies which won the war for the Union" (p. v). Although Warner could
                    not possibly tell the "complete story" regarding nearly six hundred Union
                    generals, he has assembled much information about these heroes in blue so that his study becomes a
                    useful "crutch" for researchers. In the Introduction Warner notes that many
                    generals were quite young, that many of them had at least some professional training before becoming
                    generals, and that political preference had much to do with appointments and roles assigned.
            
               Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                            United States
                         Army from Its Organization, September 29, 1789, to March 2, 1903. Two volumes.
                    By Francis B. Heitman. Facsimile reprint. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1965. Pp. 1069, 626. $20.00.)
                    Heitman's Historical Register has long been a valuable guide to
                    researchers, genealogists, librarians, and editors as regards 
                        United States
                     Army personnel. The main portion is Part II (Vol. I, pp. 147-1069) which has brief
                    information concerning the service records of commissioned army officers for the period, 1789-1903.
                    Much information is also included regarding the historical development and organizational setup of
                    the 
                        United States
                     Army and various miscellaneous facets concerning it. Heitman was a private compiler
                    whose two original volumes were purchased by Congress and published in 1903. The University of
                    Illinois Press is to be commended for its issuance of this facsimile edition of Heitman's
                        Historical Register.
            
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                        : A Students' Guide to Localized History. By Francis P. Weisenburger. (
                        New York
                    : Bureau of Publications, Teachers College 
                        Columbia
                     University, 1965. Pp. x, 36. Paperbound.) This brief guide concerning state and local
                    history of Ohio should be especially useful to junior and senior high school teachers as fell as to
                    persons with a general interest in Buckeye history. The concise account of 
                        Ohio
                    's history is sketchy and highly interpretative, but Professor Weisenburger
                    offers both a readable and thoughtful presentation. His suggestions concerning bibliographical
                    material and field trips add to the value of this modest booklet.
            
               David Glassburn: Virginia Pioneer…. By Oma Glasburn Robinson. (
                        Los Angeles
                    : The Ward Ritchie Press, 1964. Pp. x, 355. Notes, illustrations, index.) Oma Glasburn
                    Robinson offers a genealogical account of David Glassburn and certain of his descendants of whom  she is one. Mrs. Robinson is aware that she has not been able
                    to answer all relevant questions about the Glassburn family and that her findings may not be
                    entirely free of error (pp. vi, 3). Nevertheless, she seems to have done rather careful and thorough
                    research concerning her subject, his children, and their descendants, as well as the descendants of
                    related Carpenter, Persinger, Pottenger, Jacobs, Robinson, and other families.
            Other Books and Pamphlets Received:
            
               The American Revolution: How Revolutionary Was It? Edited by George Athan Billias. (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1965. Pp. 122. Notes, guide for further reading.
                    Paperbound, $1.50.)
            
               Pearl Harbor: Roosevelt and the Coming of the War. Edited by George M. Waller. Problems in American Civilization Series. (
                        Boston
                    : D. C. Heath, 1965. Pp. xi, 111. Notes, suggestions for additional reading.
                    Paperbound.)
            
               Preliminary Inventory of the General Records of the Housing and Home Finance
                    Agency. Compiled by Katherine H. Davidson. (
                        Washington
                    : National Archives, 1965. Pp. vii, 28. Appendixes. Paper-bound.)
            
               Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Two volumes.
                    Compiled by Edward E. Hill. (
                        Washington
                    : National Archives, 1965. Pp. xii, 294, xii, 459. Appendixes, index. Paperbound.)
            Since our last listing we have received the following publications from the Service Center for
                    Teachers of History, a service of the American Historical Association.
            
               The Progressive Era, 1900-1918: Recent Literature and New Ideas. By George E.
                    Mowry. (Publication Number 10] (
                        Baltimore
                    : Waverly Press, 1964. Pp. 23. Bibliography. Paperbound.)
            
               The Far West in American History. By Harvey L. Carter. [Publication
                        Number 26.] (
                        Baltimore
                    : Waverly Press, 1964. Pp. 25. Notes. Paperbound.)
            
               The Negro in American History. By Louis R. Harlan. [Publication Number
                        61.] (
                        Baltimore
                    : Waverly Press, 1965. Pp. 29. References. Paperbound.)
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
